11109876 rose to move an Address, and after expressing his entire concurrence in the sentiments contained in the Speech from the throne, proceeded to state the grounds upon which those sentiments met his cordial approbation. It was, indeed, peculiarly grateful to re-Sect that the great object of the war hid been fully attained: that the powerful military despotism which had so long desolated Europe, and threatened our own overthrow, was completely overwhelmed; that order and tranquillity were universally restored; that the people of all nations were allowed to enjoy that peace, the preservation of which was become, in fact, a part of our religion which all the dynasties of Europe were pledged to maintain inviolate; that doctrine of legitimacy which was so essential to the happiness, the repose, and the security of all nations. With regard to the victory which had distinguished our fleet at Algiers, he con-
11109876Lord Valletort
222120191817l.1615 began by expressing his entire concurrence with many of the observations which had been so eloquently made by the mover and seconder of the address, and, like them, professed himself not in the smallest degree disposed to exaggerate the existing distresses of the country, or to add to the present feelings of despondency. He agreed with them, that the fate of the country was at all times, but now most particularly, placed in the hands of parliament; and that on the conduct of that House in particular, during this session, depended very much what would be the fate of the country. The first paragraph of the Speech entirely coincided with his own views, namely, that part of it which related to the late conflict with the dey of Algiers. With respect to the second, namely, that which related to the war in India, he should not at present make any remarks, though he by no means gave any pledge respecting what he should do when the question should hereafter come before the House. The rest of the speech, and the address
222120191817l.1615Mr. Ponsonby
3231 jun. said, that as far as he understood the inquiry proposed in the speech of his royal highness, it included nearly all those topics in its recommendation to parliament, which were embraced in the amendment of the right hon. gentleman; and those which were not included, would necessarily enter in to the discussions of the committee that had been mentioned. In that committee the propriety of our colonial policy, and of our commercial system, would be taken into consideration. With respect to the poor-laws, that subject had been brought before the House last year, and a full examination of it deferred to the present session. He agreed with the hon. gentleman, that it would form a most important branch of that in-
3231Mr. Charles Grant
 moved, that the House do send an answer to their lordships message, by messengers of its own.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
33 then moved, "That this House doth acquiesce in the reasons assigned by the Lords, for sending the said message by their clerk assistant and reading clerk, instead of the usual messengers, trusting that the same will not be drawn into precedent for the future." The motion was agreed to. He next moved, "That the House do agree to a conference with the Lords, and that a message be sent to the Lords acquainting-them therewith." This motion was also carried, and lord Binning was sent to communicate it to their lordships. Upon his return. The Speaker observed, that the
33The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that before the House proceeded to take into consideration their lordships communication, it would be proper to settle what course was to be taken as to the other business before them. For his own part, he thought that it would be difficult for the House to return to the consideration of the question respecting the Prince Regent's speech, and he should suggest that the debate on it be adjourned.Mr. Wynn
 was of opinion that the House would best consult its dignity, if it proceeded that afternoon to no other business, after the consideration of the attack on his royal highness.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
34 thereupon moved, that the debate on the Prince Regent's speech be adjourned till to-morrow, which was agreed to. The House then proceeded to take into consideration the Address communicated by the Lords at the conference; and the same was read as follows:34The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 then moved, that lord James Murray do attend this House immediately, which was agreed to; and it having been shortly after reported to the House, that lord James Murray was in attendance, it was ordered, ort the motion of the chancellor of the exchequer, that his lordship be called in. Lord James Murray then appeared at the bar, and was examined, the questions being, addressed to the Speaker, and by him to the witness.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
35 What situation does the noble lord hold in the household of his royal highness the Prince Regent? A. That of lord of the bedchamber.—Was the noble lord in attendance on his royal highness on his coming to open the parliament this day? Yes.—Was the noble lord in the carriage with his royal highness when he returned from the parliament? Yes.—What happened in the noble lord's own sight on that occasion. On his royal highness's return from the House, between Carleton-house gardens and St. James's gardens, the glass of the carriage on the left side of his royal highness was broken.—In what manner did the fracture appear to the noble lord to have been produced? It seemed to have been produced by two bullets of a small size; about a quarter of an inch apart.— Was the noble lord confident that the fractures must have been produced by bullets or some other substances thrown with great violence? I have not the slightest doubt that they were produced by bullets.—Did the noble lord make any other observation respecting this proceeding? About a minute after the glass was
35The Chancellor of the Exchequer.
 Did his royal highness the Prince Regent give any instructions afterwards to search the carriage? Not to my own knowledge.A Member.
 Will the noble lord be pleased to answer, whether the opposite glass was up or down?—A. It was up.Mr. W. Wynn.
 Will the noble lord state, whether the window that was broken was next to his royal highness? His royal highness sat in the middle of the carriage.Lord Cochrane.
 Will the noble lord say, whether he supposes the bullets perforated any part of the carriage at all? I suppose they did.A Member.
37 then said, that the House having heard from the mouth of the noble lord the particulars of this daring outrage on the person of the Prince Regent, would require, he presumed, no other reasons to induce them to adopt the address which the Lords had communicated, especially when it was considered
37The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 suggested that the address should be read a second time. The address having been again read, he said, that he believed he only expressed the unanimous opinion of the House, when he cordially expressed his conviction of the propriety of the address [Hear, hear!]. That the fracture in the glass of the carriage of his royal highness had been produced by bullets did not, bethought, clearly appear from the evidence of his lordship. Whether it was or was not thus produced, it was of little consequence at that time to consider; for though it might be of some importance with regard to the guilt of the person by whom the crime was committed, is could not have the smallest influence on the decision of the House.Mr. Ponsonby
 Will the noble lord say, whether the glass was not of an unusual thickness? The glass was remarkably thick.Mr. W. Wynn.
 then asked whether any other hon. member wished to put any questions to the witness?The Speaker
 said, in whatever manner it was settled, it was convenient it should be decided then.The Speaker
 observed, that the unusual manner in which the communication from their lordships had been made, required that it should be marked by the way in which that House noticed it.The Speaker
 asked whether any bullets had been found in the carriage [Hear, hear!]? I have not heard that any bullets have been found in the carriage. I should observe, that I conceived, from the manner of the fracture, that the bullets must have come from some height, perhaps from one of the trees, of which there are many in that part of the park, in which there were several persons.Sir B. Hobhouse
26252423 said, the right hon. gentleman who moved the amendment had referred to the speech of the Prince Regent at the opening of the last session of parliament, and had asked, if the language there held on particular topics could now be justified? He thought it must be felt by every one, that circumstances might change, as in this case he was of opinion they had done, so as to make it the duty of ministers to come forward now with a statement materially differing from that which they were bound to make then. The right hon. gentleman had said, that the commerce, manufactures, and revenue of the country were at that time described to be in a flourishing state, and he had asked, if this had subsequently appeared? Not content with pressing this on the House, he had represented the agriculture of the country to have been spoken of in similar terms. Now, with respect to the then state of the agriculture of the country, nothing of the kind had been advanced; but the commerce of the country was at that time certainly in a flourishing condition. On the subject of the revenue of the country, it had been truly asserted by the noble mover of the address, to have been in a prosperous situation up to the month of April. Under these circumstances, he could not discover that there was any thing in that speech, or in the events which had since occurred, with which ministers could fairly be reproached.—The next topic to which the right hon. gentleman had adverted, was that part of the speech of last year, in which the Prince Regent had expressed his disposition to concur in such measures of economy as might be recommended to him by the House. Instead of intimating that he would lend himself to any such plan which they should adopt, his royal highness might have assured them that he would recommend such measures to the adoption of his ministers. This, however, had not been asserted in the speech, and nothing had occurred that could be proved to contradict the declaration of the disposition of his royal highness to favour re-
26252423Mr. Bathurst
14Non civium ardor prava jubentium Mente quatit solida.13, in rising to second the address, said, that he felt considerable embarrassment, as well from a sense of the great importance of the subject, as from a consciousness of his own incapability. The several topics alluded to in the speech of the Prince Regent, called, no doubt, for the undivided attention of the House, but there was nothing in the state of the country to justify that degree of gloom and despondency which some persons sought to produce. The speech was throughout marked by a wise candour, for while it dwelt upon those events which formed a just cause of triumph, it neither exaggerated the public distress on the one hand, nor did it attempt on the other to blindfold parliament as to the severity of its pressure. While it adverted to difficulties, which he hoped would be found to exist but for a short time, the speech from the throne called only for the congratulation of the House upon the triumph of our arms. And who could withhold that congratulation from such an achievement as that performed at Algiers? That achievement indeed, and the undertaking which led to it, served to show that Great Britain was forward to remedy an evil, by the exertion of which it could not be personally affected; that without any immediate interest of its own, to consult, the practice of injustice or oppression towards other nations was enough to excite active interposition. This achievement, indeed, presented a further display of the gallantry of our navy, recalling to our recollection, that however dazzled we had been of late years by our military exploits, the only reason why our navy had not continued to conquer was, because it had had no enemy to contend with. The accession to our national fame which our navy had obtained in this instance, was indubitably of the utmost importance, forming, as it did, an additional bulwark for our national security, as well as for the great object of the expedition. The observation was often heard, that it would be idle to talk of the blessings of peace, if those blessings did not include a reduction of the public expense; and that observation was undoubtedly just. But had not important reductions already taken place; and was there not every reason to look for still further reduction. He had no doubt indeed that reduction would be carried as far as a due regard to circumstances would warrant, and that the exertion of a wise government, with the patience of a considerate people, would be
14Non civium ardor prava jubentium Mente quatit solida.13Mr. Dawson
 Will the noble lord state who were the other persons in the carriage besides the Prince Regent and himself? The duke of Montrose, who is master of the horse; he sat on the same side of the carriage on which the window was broken.Mr. Brougham.
 Did the noble lord observe at the bottom of the carriage any thing but the splinters of glass? I only observed the splinters of glass at the bottom of the opposite door of the carriage.Mr. Brougham.
 Will the noble lord say, whether the stone or stones which broke the window did enter the carriage? No, it did not; the glass being very thick it rebounded.Mr. Brougham.
 Will the noble lord state, whether he observed two similar holes in the opposite glass? The opposite glass was not broken at all. The reason I supposed the bullets to have come from a height was, that splinters of the glass were thrown violently to the lower part of the opposite side of the carriage.Mr. Brougham.
36 The noble lord will be
36Mr. Brougham.
 Did the noble lord hear any noise, which induced him to suppose that the bullets had passed through the carriage? I heard no noise but that produced by the fracture of the glass.Mr. Curwen.
30292827 said, that the noble lord who had opened the debate, and the hon. gentleman who had seconded the address, had in some points touched upon and explained with ability the state and prospects of the country; they had forcibly dwelt with exultation on the general state and situation of the country, and in one of the topics of their gratulation he most fully concurred; he need not say that he alluded to the prompt undertaking and effective execution of the armament against Algiers. The hon. gentleman who seconded the address had, however, carried his feelings of eulogium into a sort of poetical enthusiasm on this event—he had described it as a proof to the nations of the earth that there was nothing selfish in the policy of Great Britain towards other powers—that her aid and co-operation were always in readiness to repress the injuries inflicted upon other states, and to relieve them in their hour of calamity. He was sorry to say, that he could not concur in this unlimited panegyric, and before the hon. gentleman who had framed it could have wound his mind up to such a pitch of affectionate credulity, he should have turned his eyes to the systems which England had revived in Europe, to the dynasties she had restored, and to the forms of government she had re-enacted. Had the hon. gentleman looked at the dynasties so restored by British influence, he would have had his answer as to the liberal and enlightened policy of our ministers, in those of Spain and other nations, which they had reared from their ashes. Had the expedition to Algiers been undertaken on other grounds than those of national insult, he for one would not have consented to its existence; great as was the principle connected with
30292827Mr. Lamb
 Will the noble lord state, who were the persons on the outside of the carriage nearest to the window that was struck? Were they soldiers or others? There was one footman by the door, and a life-guard immediately behind. No one was opposite.Sir Robert Heron.
 The noble lord is requested to say, whether the stone or stones that were thrown after the bullets, actually smashed the window, or only starred the glass? It not only smashed the window, but also pounded the glass.Lord Milton.
79 previous to the House coming to any decision on the address, in answer to the speech of the Prince Regent, and particularly on that part of it which related to the late disturbances, wished to read over so much of a petition, which he held in his hand, as he thought would suffice to express the sentiments of those from whom it was presented, on the subject of a reform in parliament. The Petition was signed, as he was informed, by 15,700 inhabitants of Bristol and its vicinity. He then proceeded to read part of the petition, which set forth the present distress of the country, the increase of paupers and beggars, the want of employment for industry, and the misery which resulted from this state of things. Under such circumstances, it went on to declare, that it was in vain to pretend to relieve the sufferers by giving them soup, while half their earnings were taken from them by the enormous taxation under which the country groaned, for the support of sinecure placemen, pensioners, and an insatiable civil list. To remove the evil, it was necessary to look to the causes of it, and no adequate relief, it insisted, could be afforded, but by a reform in parliament. While the noble lord was reading, some noise having occurred, he took occasion to call the attention of the House to the petition now in his hand, and declared it to be absolutely necessary that the House should hear the complaints which it contained. Whatever some gentlemen might think of the present aspect of our affairs, he considered the times to be most por-
79Lord Cochrane,
 spoke to order. He believed the course taken by the noble lord to be at variance with the rules and with the practice of that House. A member having a petition to present had a right to state the substance of it; it was then for the House to determine whether it would receive it or not; and if received, it was afterwards read by the clerk.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had read part of it, because no description of its substance that he could have offered would, in his opinion, have given a proper idea of its contents. He had often remarked, that when petitions were presented which did not accord with the views of those who were in the habit of voting with ministers, it was common to oppose the reading of them by making a noise in the House, which had frequently been so great, that sitting on that bench he could not hear them. On presenting a petition like the present, signed by 15,700 persons, he was anxious to call the attention of the House to the subject matter of it, as he thought it was of some importance that they should know what these petitioners required before those measures were determined on, which it might be proposed to found on that part of the Prince Regent's Speech to which he had referred. He had on the present occasion attempted to read the petition himself, because the clerks (without any blame to them), had in many cases not read such petitions with a voice sufficiently audible to obtain that attention which they ought to receive.Lord Cochrane
 apprehended, that if there were any irregularity or disorder in the House, it was the province of the chair to correct it, and that it did not belong to any individual member to address to that House what was palled an admonition.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 after expressing a hope that the clerk would read the petition audibly and distinctly, and that the House would attend to it, challenged any person to produce an instance in which the slightest wish to subvert the constitution, or to promote riot, was expressed at any meeting to petition upon the subject of parliamentary reform. He was authorised to say that no such instance had occurred. At the meeting at Bristol, from which proceeded the petition he now held in his hand, no riot or symptom of riot appeared except on the part of a police officer, who endeavoured to create a riot. Then as to the meeting at Spa-fields, it was notorious that the riot which took place on the day that meeting was held, had no connexion whatever with the meeting, but resulted from an assemblage of such desperate characters as were always to be met with in a great town, and who had collected to witness an execution at the Old Bailey. The riot was to be attributed to those men, accompanied, no doubt, by some starving seamen—yes, by seamen driven to desperation by dire want in that country whose battles they had gallantly fought.Lord Cochrane
 referring to the order of proceeding upon the subject of petitions, remarked, that the reading of any petition by the member presenting it could not regularly take place, for this obvious reason, that the first motion was, that the petition should be brought up, which motion must be agreed to before the second motion could be put that the petition should be read. He adverted to this course of proceeding in order to guard against the recurrence of any such irregularity as the House had witnessed.Mr. Fremantle,
 said, that how far this petition was from being that of the people of Bristol, the House, after what had just been stated, would be able to judge for itself; but as it was the petition of a public meeting, he could not see that it would be improper to lay it on their table. Some of the topics which it embraced might not have been well introduced, but, at the same time, he thought there was nothing so disrespectful to the House—so greatly transgressing its rules, as to call upon them to reject it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
8382 then presented from the township of Quick, in the parish of Saddleworih, in Yorkshire. The petition was read, setting forth,8382Lord Cochrane
 said, that the same considerations which induced him to accede to the admission of the last petition determined him to oppose the one just read. For the latter, while it contained no distinct proposition proper to be brought under the cognizance of parliament, presented a direct libel—a gross attack upon the privileges, the conduct and character of that House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 declared that he had not read this petition, nor could he hear a word of it from the noise that prevailed while the clerk was reading it.Lord Cochrane
 said, that the House ought certainly to suppose, that the noble lord had read the petition, and had found nothing in it wrong, before he presented it. He himself had heard it distinctly, and he could state without difficulty, that it was, from the beginning to the end of it, a contrived, deliberate, and determined libel on the House, and its privileges.The Attorney General
86 observed, in the defence which the hon. and learned gentleman had made of the language of the petitioners, he had omitted to notice the consequence drawn from the statement of their constitutional objection to the present House of Commons, which he contended made it improper to receive the petition. He would admit, that without insulting the House, that mode of argument might be capable of being maintained, which was resorted to by those who were of opinion that other theories than those which govern, or which have ever governed this country, ought to form the basis of representation. But when they were told that they were, in no constitutional or rational sense, the representatives of the people; and when, having said this, the petitioners went on to assert, that the constitution had been subverted, this was no longer the language of petition; it was a direct excitement to rebellion. If we had no longer a constitution remaining, what was the language of the departed constitution? In such a case it justified resistance. The hon. and learned gentleman would agree with him in this, and concurring with him in this instance, why did he not say that he knew it was in the minds of the petitioners to restore the subverted constitution by resistance? If such language were tolerated, there was an end of the House of Commons, and of the present system of go-
86Mr. Canning
 expressed his surprise at such language as the House had heard from the last speaker. It was impossible indeed; not to be astonished, when a distinguished political leader, when a minister of the crown, declared, that he would not object to a petition containing the most insulting language. He would be as ready as any man to receive and attend to the petitions of the people, but the petition before the House was peculiarly objectionable. It contained comments upon the debates of that House, which were utterly inadmissible at any time or under any circumstances. The conduct of the House of Commons, with respect to the Kentish petition, which recommended that its addresses should be turned into bills of supply, evinced the feeling which had. governed, and which should always govern the House with respect to its privileges.Mr. Wynn
 in explanation, said, he had not wished the House to submit to insult. All he meant was, that he should not be disposed very critically to examine the language of petitions, provided the principle on which they were founded was unobjectionable.Mr. Canning,
 observed, that after the decision which had just been pronounced upon the former petition, he need not trouble the House at any length with respect to the present one, which was nearly a verbatim copy of the other. He would leave the House to judge how far those petitions were to be considered as the genuine and authentic language of the petitioners, or how far they were the dictation of certain factious demagogues who were now agitating the question of reform throughout the country.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
93s.l.92 said, he was in every respect ignorant of the views of the petitioners, or how the petitions were drawn up. They were put into his hands, and he considered it his bounden duty to present them. As to their tendency, he would venture to say, with regard to himself, that, notwithstanding all the misrepresentations which
93s.l.92Lord Cochrane
 allowed, that the noble lord had only done the duty of a member of parliament in taking charge of the petitions. But after the recent decision of the House, was it politic in him to press the reception of a petition, containing the very same language, without giving an opportunity to those, by whom it had been drawn up, of making any alterations which might enable the House to receive it, consistently with its dignity? He would advise the noble lord, although he feared his advice would not be received, to withdraw the petition for the present. By doing so he would act better by those who had signed it, than if he continued to press it, in its present state, on the acceptance of the House.Mr. Canning
 consented, with the leave of the House, to withdraw the petition, as the general feeling seemed to be, that it was couched in such language as could not be received. His lordship then presented petitions from Lees, in the parish of Ashton-under-Line, and from the town of Oldham, which were ordered to lie on the table. He next presented a petition from Ashton-under-Line.Lord Cochrane
 asked if it was not couched in the very identical language of the one that had been rejected by the House, and of the other that had been withdrawn?The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 answered, that if any hon. member would say it was the same, he would withdraw it. And on being a second time questioned, he replied, that it might be, to as certain extent, the same, but contained, in addition, other matter.Lord Cochrane
 then presented a petition from the town of Oldham in the county of Lancaster.Lord Cochrane
88 said, that no one could regret more than he should, the offensive wording of the petition, if this should
88Lord Cochrane
 junr. said, he did not know whether the petitioners intended to insult that House or not, but when he saw a document which contained every expression that could convey an insult; when the allegation, that the House of Commons did not represent the people, was followed up by the broad assertion that the constitution itself was subverted: when he perceived no want of literary talent, no deficiency of knowledge, in that document, and when he saw that if it was intended to insult the House, it would be impossible to select any language more appropriate for such a purpose, he confessed he knew not what other inference could be drawn from it. If such a petition were permitted to lie on their table, they would never be authorized hereafter to reject any other, however insulting or disrespectful it might be.Mr. C. Grant,
 stated, that the petitions had been placed in his hands without any interference on his part.Lord Cochrane
 thought that it complained of different matters.Lord Cochrane
 stated the simple question to be, did the petition now presented contain in the judgment of the noble lord, language as disrespectful to the House, and as derogatory to its dignity, as the one which it had rejected? If it did, surely the noble lord was not conducting himself with due regard to the feelings of the House if he persisted in pressing its reading.Mr. Wynn
 asked, if any man could lay his hand upon his heart, and say, that he disbelieved that the signatures appended to the petition were those of persons who did not concur in it, who had not subscribed it, or who did not agree in its prayer? Different persons residing in different and distant parts of the country might subscribe at different times on a separate paper, detached from the prayer of the petition, for the sake of convenience; but such a mode of procedure furnished no ground for doubting the authenticity of the document when the two papers were joined. In all petitions with numerous signatures there must be some of the names on paper originally disconnected with that which contained the body of the application, but this circumstance was never made an objection to the reception of such documents. If a petition purporting to be subscribed by several hundreds, but which only contained six signatures at the bottom of the prayer, could be received as the petition of those hundreds, why not a petition that contained only one or none at the bottom, but carried them all to a separate paper? His opinion was, that the petitions were genuine, and as such should not be rejected from the mere want of technical form. This was the first time that ever such an objection was brought forward or acted upon. [No! no, from ail parts of the House]. A petition had been rejected as he entered the House, and he knew not on what grounds: no reason was stated, and no discussion entertained.Sir F. Burdett
96 observed, that if the hon. baronet had been in the House he would have known the reason of the summary rejection of the petition. He could not agree with the hon. baronet, that the objection now under discussion was merely technical. If petitions could be received written with the signatures on one piece of paper, and the application upon another, what security had the House that they were genuine? Might there not be a bureau in town for the manufacture of petitions, and another in the country for procuring signatures? And
96The Attorney General
 being asked whether the petition was the same as that which had been rejected, replied that he could not say as he had not perused it.Lord Cochrane
 asked if it was not couched in the identical words of the one that had been rejected?Mr. Canning
in terminis, answered, it did not appear to him to be exactly the same; and upon the Speaker's saying that it seemed to be in terminis,Lord Cochrane
98 observed, that he had purposely waited to hear the motion of the noble lord till he delivered his sentiments on the conduct he was pursuing. After one petition had been rejected by the House as disrespectful to its dignity; after the noble lord saw such a general feeling on all sides against him; after he himself had consented, in consequence of the expressed sense of parliament, to withdraw another obnoxious application; after the dignified and friendly warning of the speaker, it did appear to him extraordinary and unaccountable, that the noble lord should move to receive this petition, and pertinaciously continue to press upon the House language which it disapproved and renounced. He could not conceive what possible object the noble lord could propose to himself. He could not conceive in what way he could reconcile his conduct to any principles of public good, or expect to produce any advantage to the country. Could he think that he was benefiting the cause of which he professed to be the advocate? God forbid that the petitions of any body of his majesty's subjects should be disregarded! God forbid that applications for reform should be rejected without consideration, and that reform should not be entertained as a subject for fair discussion! but surely the noble lord, so far as allowing it to be brought forward with favour, was injuring it as far as his influence extended. The
98Mr. Canning
99 denied that he pressed the receiving of the petition from mere pertinacity. Knowing that they were all the
99Lord Cochrane
 rose to call the attention of the House to a subject which he conceived was extremely worthy of their notice, namely, the alteration of the usual form of proceeding, and the accommodation supplied to the managers of the House of Commons in their conferences with the Lords. He understood, from ancient usage, that, on a conference of the two Houses, they met in the painted chamber, where the Lords sat on one side, covered, and the Commons stood on the other side uncovered; but yesterday he observed, for the first time, that the seats of the Lords were elevated, there was no table in the room, and the managers of the Commons were placed outside the bar. This alteration of the usual form certainly required some explanation, more particularly as the House had yesterday thought proper to notice, that it was contrary to custom for the Lords to send a message to the Commons by their clerk-assistant. He had no reason to believe that the Lords intended any disrespect to the managers of the Commons on this occasion; but that the want of the usual accommodation must have arisen from some mismanagement in the board of works. He had thought it his duty, however, to mention this occurrence to the House, in order that the Commons might not be deprived of their undoubted privileges.Mr. Wynn
 should be one of the first to resent any departure from the respect due to the managers of the Commons. But the suddenness of the occasion appeared to him the probable cause of the alteration of which the hon. member complained.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 objected to the petition being received, unless the noble lord would state that it varied from the abusive language of that which had been rejected.Mr. Wynn
 thought that the noble lord had only himself to blame for the difficulties which he had encountered.Mr. Robinson
 acknowledged, that in that sense there appeared to be no name to the petition.Lord Cochrane
 said, he was happy, at least, that he had been the means of acquainting the public with the usage of the House.Lord Cochrane
 thought that it would have been the duty of the managers on the part of the Commons to have retired immediately when they found that they had to wait, had not the importance of the subject detained them. He concluded by expressing his intention to propose a motion of the nature suggested by the Speaker.Mr. Wynn
110109108107106l.l.!l.;l.;105104l.103l.l.l.l.102101 rose and said:—Sir, truly sorry am I to feel obliged to force myself on the attention of the Houses Sensible of the importance of unanimity at this awful crisis, I would willingly have made some sacrifices to have promoted it: but, Sir, an imperious sense of duty forbids me apparently to sanction the deception which I conceive the speech from the throne, and, the address in reply to it, are calculated to produce—Sir, in this House, it is perfectly understood, that the speech from the throne is that of the ministers, and that whatever observations are made on it, they intend not the slightest disrespect to the sovereign. Never were the hopes of the country excited to so high a
110109108107106l.l.!l.;l.;105104l.103l.l.l.l.102101Mr. Curwen
112111 said, that as far as he could learn the object of the hon. gentleman who had last spoken, his objection to the speech and the address, seemed to be that they contained false representations of the state of the country, and tended to spread delusion among the people. If that charge could be made out, it was indeed a gross fault; but the hon. gentleman had, he thought, failed in substantiating his assertion. Was it, he would ask, useful to represent what was calamitous in the most desponding colours? for that was the course taken by the supporters of the amendment. The address stated the facts simply as they were: it stated also-that the undeniable evils were of a temporary nature. The amendment stated the same facts, but gave no such consolation. The fault of ministers therefore was, that they hoped too well of the country. This was "the head and front of their offending," The statement of the ministers in the last year had been referred to. At the opening of the session they certainly did give a statement of the condition of the country very different from that which he conceived to be the real state of it. They had, however, supported themselves by the accounts of the exports and of the revenue at that time. Subsequent events had changed the aspect of the country. Much of this change was, in his opinion, to be attributed to the seasons. On this ground, no charge could be brought against ministers. The topics in the amendment were, he acknowledged, exceedingly proper, but the same topics were to be found in the address. The deficiency of the revenue was a main point of the amendment; but this was also to be found in the address. When this fact was alluded to, it was naturally to be expected that an inquiry should be instituted. This was accordingly agreed to on both sides; but it appeared the mover of the amendment would not be satisfied with a committee on the expenditure and revenue, but would have a committee on the state of the nation. In the consideration of the state of the nation the principal ingredients were, income and expenditure; there might be other points, but as to them the House was uninformed and un-
112111Mr. Bankes
120panacea119118117116115l.114113 said, that he rose to solicit the attention of the House under the influence of the very sentiment with expressing which the hon. gentleman had just concluded his speech; as feeling how absolutely necessary it was to prevent delusions from going forth to the country in the present critical emergency of its affairs: for he would venture to say, that a speech more calculated, though possibly not intended to mislead the people of England—more replete with every species of deception—more vain and illusory in the
120panacea119118117116115l.114113Mr. Brougham
136And warms the nations with redoubled ray."To-morrow he repairs the golden flood,Rais'd by war's breath, has quench'd the orb of day?"Think you yon sanguine cloud,135134*"Christian Policy the Salvation of the Empire. Published by Thomas Evans, Librarian to the Society of Spencean Philanthropists."133132131130129128127126125124*Mr. Brougham's Speech on Agricultural Distress, 9th April, 1816; see Vol. 3S p. 1036.*123122121 spoke as follows:—In addressing myself to you, Sir, and to the House, I must begin by claiming, for myself and my colleagues, to be considered as not less sensibly alive, than any of those gentlemen who have taken part in this debate, to the distresses, and I must be allowed to add, to the perils of the country. The importance of the crisis at which parliament is now assembled, has been much dwelt upon by the hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last. Sir, I concur with the hon. and learned gentleman in his estimate of that importance. That which, in many instances, has been little more than an ordinary form of speech, is now correctly and literally true. We have seen within the last few years, many important conjunctures in our national affairs: important was the crisis when parliament determined, at the commencement of the late war, to arm the nation against foreign hostility and domestic treason; important was the crisis, when, after having won our way through a struggle of unexampled exertion and perseverance, we were suddenly called upon to make a new and unparalleled effort to preserve the prize and reward of our past achievements, which was about to be wrested from our hands;—but not less important, certainly, in the present crisis of domestic difficulty and danger, is the result of this night's deliberations, by which will be decided, whether we shall or shall not carry to the foot of the throne, an unanimous expression of our determination to stand by it and by the country.136And warms the nations with redoubled ray."To-morrow he repairs the golden flood,Rais'd by war's breath, has quench'd the orb of day?"Think you yon sanguine cloud,135134*"Christian Policy the Salvation of the Empire. Published by Thomas Evans, Librarian to the Society of Spencean Philanthropists."133132131130129128127126125124*Mr. Brougham's Speech on Agricultural Distress, 9th April, 1816; see Vol. 3S p. 1036.*123122121Mr. Canning
141l.l.l.l.140l.l.l.l.l.l.139l.l.l./.;l.l.l.138137 observed, that the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down had talked a good deal of sudden transitions, and his speech certainly abounded in examples of them. The whole of his eloquence had been thrown away upon a subject which was not before the House; and to which there was no reference either in the original address or the amendment. He regretted lord Castlereagh's absence, as that noble lord was once a prominent advocate for parliamentary reform, agreeing with Mr. Pitt and others, as to the necessity of the measure, and if he bad not changed his opinions, might have opposed the right hon. gentleman's anathemas against reformers. Mr. Tierney avowed himself a friend to parliamentary reform, but not to annual parliaments or to universal suffrage. He admitted, however, that it was a question which required mature and serious consideration and one which ought not to be entered upon from any clamours out of doors. This was a principle which he had maintained through life, and, unless he heard something against it more substantial than the eloquence of the right hon. gentleman, it was one in which he should die. But let not the attention of the House be drawn away from the nature of the amendment. The whole country was in jeopardy and danger, and, if we were to believe the right hon. gentleman, from temporary
141l.l.l.l.140l.l.l.l.l.l.139l.l.l./.;l.l.l.138137Mr. Tierney
 made a brief reply to Mr. Tierney, which the impatience manifested for the question rendered inaudible.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said a few words in favour of the amendment, and proposed a committee with open doors, as in the case of the duke of York.Mr. Saville
152Majority against the Amendment
152Majority against the Amendment264Against it
264Against it112For the Amendment
112For the Amendment
152Majority against the Amendment
152Majority against the Amendment264Against it
264Against it112For the Amendment
112For the Amendment attempted to be heard, but the House at length divided:
152Majority against the Amendment
152Majority against the Amendment264Against it
264Against it112For the Amendment
112For the Amendment
152Majority against the Amendment
152Majority against the Amendment264Against it
264Against it112For the Amendment
112For the AmendmentMr. Preston
 said, it was no new usage, but one which had existed for ages.The Speaker
 Then the noble lord is not at liberty to present it.The Speaker.
 said, that no name appeared on the sheet of the petition. Was the noble lord prepared to say that no name was affixed to it?The Speaker
100 observed, that the House was very properly jealous of its privileges, especially in its intercourse with the other House. It was now 159 years since the forms of conferences between the two Houses had been settled as they now stood, and he thought it would be proper to send a message to the Lords, to desire
100The Speaker
 said, that every member was bound to read the petitions he presented, and to determine in his own judgment on the propriety of the terms in which they were expressed, before he brought them forward. If the noble lord had not read this one, he might move for leave to withdraw it for that purpose, and bring it forward at another opportunity.The Speaker
 observed, that when a member rose to order, it was his duty to confine himself to the point of order.The Speaker
95 called the attention of the House to the principle upon which its proceedings in all cases like the present were regulated. The rule was, that every paper presented to the House as a petition should have a signature subscribed of the parties whose prayer it purported to convey. If the names of the petitioners and the application were written on separate papers, and merely attached to each other, there was no certainty that any authority
95The Speaker
 expressed a hope, that after the admonition now a second time given, there would be no recurrence of a similar breach of order on the part of the noble lord.The Speaker
 said, unquestionably the right hon. gentleman was right as to the practice of the House. The member presenting a petition had a right to state the substance, and when received, it was read by the clerk; but in strict order, the member had no right to read it when presenting it to the House.The Speaker
 said, the whole tenor of the petition maintained that that House did not, in any constitutional sense, represent the people, and that, being so constituted, by enacting laws and imposing taxes, the constitution itself was, in fact, subverted. If the House were prepared to admit that assertion, then they had no right to legislate any further, for they were not competent to pass any acts. He was aware that a licence was allowed in the debates of that House, but when similar language was employed by bodies out of doors, it ought to be carefully watched. Unless they were disposed to lay it down as a principle, that any petition might be received, however insulting, provided it concluded with a prayer for the introduction of a bill, they must reject the present petition. He saw nothing that would prejudice other petitions, by closing the doors against the present one. Its only object was to degrade that parliament, to which, notwithstanding, it applied for relief.Mr. Bathurst
 called the noble lord to order, observing that he was wandering from the question. As to the petition, he could not doubt, from what the noble lord had read, and from the strain in which he had indulged, that it was inconsistent with decorum.Mr. Webber
 said, that not having seen the names of those who signed this petition, he could not tell from whom it came. There was undoubtedly an advertisement for a meeting at Bristol for the purpose of petitioning upon the subject of parliamentary reform, and a meeting did accordingly take place, but of whom that meeting consisted he could not say. He could however aver, that not one of his constituents ever asked him to support this petition, and he could also add his assurance that such petition did not convey the sentiments of the city of Bristol.Mr. Protheroe
 wished to know whether the present petition was the same as the former.Lord Stanley
94 observed, that there was already on the table a petition from the same town. He wished the noble lord to state whether it was the same. He would own that he had no knowledge of these
94Lord Stanley
 said, he was in the House of Lords at the time when the conference was demanded. No sooner had their lordships heard that the Commons were in attendance than they immediately went out to meet them. The messengers would also have been sent much earlier to the Commons, had not the Lords waited in the hope of getting a master in chancery.Lord Stanley
 supported the motion for the reception of the petition. If it were to be rejected on the ground of its alleging that the House did not represent the people, the House must on that ground reject every petition that had for its object a reform of parliament. He thought that the rejection of the petition might tend to increase the disaffection that had been complained of, and that, if the House wished to check that spirit, they must be indulgent to all petitions.Mr. F. Douglas
 expressed his conviction, that not one-hundreth part of the people of Bristol attended the meeting from which this petition purported to come. The feeling indeed excited at Bristol by the advertisement of this meeting might easily be judged of from this fact, that as soon as the advertisement appeared, no less than 1,200 citizens voluntarily stood forward to act as constables for the preservation of the peace. Whatever opinions might exist among the electors of Bristol upon the subject of parliamentary reform, he could confidently assert, that those opinions bore no relation to the sentiments of the meeting from which this petition emanated. He could say with his colleague, that he knew not of whom the meeting alluded to was composed, but this he knew, that this petition was not to be considered that of the city of Bristol, and that it did not express the sentiments of his constituents.Mr. Hart Davis
8584 said, that with great respect, he could by no means concur with his learned friend, that this petition ought to be rejected. His learned friend had asserted pretty confidently, that this petition contained a deliberate libel upon the privileges of that House—to which privileges, in point of fact, it had no reference whatever. It dwelt much upon the distresses of the country, which were notorious—which were, indeed, admitted in the Speech from the throne. It prayed
8584Mr. Brougham
87 said, there was no person who felt more anxiety or more zeal than he did upon the great question of parliamentary reform—of a reform which should originate in that House. Without looking to the wild and impracticable schemes of
87Mr. Brand
 since he had held a seat in parliament, had never voted for the reception of petitions, the whole spirit and tenor of which were insulting to the House. It was because he most highly valued the right of petitioning, that his chief aim was to guard it from abuse. The hon. baronet had misunderstood the subject. It was necessary that there should be at least one signature on the sheet of the petition, and it remained for the House to decide whether it would now depart from its usual practice.Mr. Elliot,
 observed, upon, looking at the petition, that the prayer of it was written on one piece of parchment, and the signatures on another. No signature was to be found at the bottom of the petition; and for any thing that appeared to the contrary, the petitioners might never have seen the application to which their names were attached. Could the noble lord in these circumstances, from his knowledge of the parties, assure the House that the petitions he presented were genuine, and not mere fabrications? Might not the signatures be previously obtained for some other object, and affixed to a document which had not been subjected to their examination, and the contents of which they did not approve?Mr. Huskisson
89 said, it was impossible for him not to explain the motives of the vote which he intended to give. He certainly agreed with the right hon. gentleman and others, that the petition was full of violence, and full of petulance, and he was as anxious as his hon. friend to take the earliest opportunity not only of testifying his disapprobation of annual parliaments and of universal suffrage, but also of every other plan of parliamentary reform, of every other scheme and device, which he had either heard or read of in the various discussions out of doors. All those plans proceeded from mistaken views of the subjects, and from misrepresentations of the ancient history of the country. In all the resolutions which had been agreed to at recent meetings, there was not one truth fairly told, nor any portion of truth introduced, which was not dashed or brewed with lies and misrepresentations. At the same time he must maintain, that no sufficient ground had been alleged, in his opinion, for rejecting the present petition. It only stated, and that not in very outrageous language, the principles and arguments of parliamentary reform. The petition which they had just received contained matter that appeared to him much more objectionable. He remembered, and the House would remember, the emphatic language of their Speaker, when he declared that their doors should be thrown wide open for the reception of petitions; but a line should be drawn. Those petitions which denied the authority of that House, and its power to make laws, ought to be rejected; but the present petitioners did not go to that extent; on the contrary, they fully admitted both those functions, in their prayer to the House that it would be pleased to pass a bill for parliamentary reform. The former petition adopted a different style, and prayed that the House would receive and pass a bill for that purpose. The bill was to be prepared out of
89Mr. Lamb
 stated, that there was not the slightest degree of ill humour in the gentlemen of the Commons during the conference. Had there been there were other grounds of complaint which might have been brought forward. He had seen some of the highest officers of state among his majesty's ministers kept waiting for a considerable time, before any of the lords made their appearance.Mr. W. Smith
 said, he had read the petition, and though he could not entirely approve of the language in which it was couched, yet, at the same time, be did not, in his conscience, believe that it was intended to convey any insult, and he thought the House ought not to be too nice about forms of expression. Besides, it was very possible that the same language might be employed in other petitions, and it would be of the most serious importance if they were to refuse petitions from every part of the kingdom, upon such a subject as the present. When the petitioners said, that the House of Commons was not, in any rational or constitutional sense, the representatives of the people, what else could they say, while applying for parliamentary reform? That was the very ground upon which the petition necessarily rested. He really thought the right hon. gentleman carried his refinement too far, when he inferred that such language was preaching up rebellion and resistance. If he imagined for a moment, that it entered into the thoughts of the petitioners to insult that House by their language, he would be the first to say, that they ought, for their own dignity and consistency, to reject the petition with indignation, but he did not think so, and therefore he should vote for its reception.Sir S. Romilly
87Majority.
87Majority.135Against it.
135Against it.48For receiving the petition.
48For receiving the petition.
87Majority.
87Majority.135Against it.
135Against it.48For receiving the petition.
48For receiving the petition.91 said, that if the arguments of the hon. gentlemen opposite were to have weight, he could not see in what manner the people could have any petitions delivered to that House. The question between that House and the
87Majority.
87Majority.135Against it.
135Against it.48For receiving the petition.
48For receiving the petition.
87Majority.
87Majority.135Against it.
135Against it.48For receiving the petition.
48For receiving the petition.91Sir W. Geary
, alluding to the late conference with the Lords on the subject of the outrage committed on the Prince Regent, and the deviation that had then taken place from the usual forms of such a proceeding, informed the House that he had prepared a motion on that subject in conformity with their desire. The accommodation that had formerly been prepared for the managers on the part of the Commons had been withheld, and there had been a general deviation from the forms that had for 150 years been established, and inserted in the Journals of the House. No notice had been taken of the circumstance during the last conference, on account of the peculiar circumstance that had occasioned it, and the importance of which had absorbed every other feeling. He concluded by moving the following resolution: "That a message be sent to the Lords, to inform their lordships that this House, taking notice, that in the manner of holding the last conference, there was some departure from the ancient and accustomed forms, and that the usual accommodation was not provided for the managers for the Commons, do desire that these matters may not be drawn into precedent, and that their lordships will give directions that the place of meeting be restored to its former state."Mr. Wynn
148 rose to present a petition upon the subject of parliamentary reform, from the inhabitants of Halifax and its vicinity. He had several others from the same part of the country, upon the same subject, and he took that oppor-
148Sir Francis Burdett
 said, he should call upon the Chair to state, whether his conception of the duty that belonged to a member of parliament in presenting a petition, was correct or not. According to that conception, any member presenting a petition, was bound to state the substance of it, and in stating it, was equally bound to answer whether it contained any thing objectionable or offensive. If such was not to be the duty of members, the table of that House might be covered, and their journals filled with the most atrocious libels against the constitution of the country. He would therefore ask the hon. baronet whether he had read the present petition.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that he could only say, he had perused an abstract of the petition, and knew its purport; but he could not say, whether the language was sufficiently gentle and polite to enter a lady's ear, or the equally delicate and diseased ear of the House of Commons. It struck him, indeed, that it would be peculiarly difficult to find expressions so nice as to give no offence. How were the people to complain of that House, but in the language of reproach? That language might be very true, and yet very unpleasant to themselves. With respect to the petition, he had stated that in substance it complained of a defective representation of the people in that House, and he was not aware, nor did he believe, that it contained any offensive language.Sir F. Burdett
 There is another thing I wish to mention. I have received a great number of petitions, and I declare I would not undertake to read them all, for any consideration. It would occupy me the whole time of the session.Sir F. Burdett.
 observed, that though the hon. baronet had not read, nor meant to read, all his petitions, yet the House was expected to undergo that operation; and unless the wholesome rule laid down by the Chair was adopted, what would be the consequence? That House would have to perform the painful duty of listening to petitions, which, from their intemperate and insulting language, it would afterwards be compelled to reject. He knew there was great delicacy and difficulty in speaking upon such a subject, and he, for one, should be disposed to follow the advice that had been given by the highest authority in that House, that their doors should be opened as wide as possible for the reception of petitions. But there was a line to be drawn; nor did he conceive that it was the absolute duty of a member to present whatever petitions might be offered to him. A petition, in fact, had been put into his own hands that very day, but he felt it his duty to object to it; not because it contained any thing offensive to the dignity of parliament, but because he had no knowledge of the facts which it alleged. He understood the cheer of the hon. gentleman opposite, but he must still venture to think that his motive was correct. Had he presented the petition, he should have considered himself as an instrument, in laying upon the table of that House severe charges against an individual who was named in it. He might have stated, and truly, the prayer of the petition, and that the language was inoffensive; but having read it from the beginning to the end, he was satisfied that he ought not to present it.The Attorney General
153literatim. in continuation, said, that the policy which the House now seemed disposed to adopt, as well as the time selected for that policy, were extremely exceptionable. He would go as far as any one, in receiving petitions, and give all possible latitude even to those which complained of the want of a due representation of the people in that House. To be sure, it was extremely unpleasant to the House to be told of corruption and undue influence, which might or might not be true; but if it appeared to the House that more was said than was at all necessary to the statement of grievances, and if there appeared a voluntary and deliberate offence against the character and dignity of the House, then it would be the duty of the House to reject the petition: But the policy of the present objections was very questionable. They should decide not on circumstances merely, but on the strict usage of parliament. An attempt was now made to oppose an additional barrier against the reception of petitions, by a strict examination of every member presenting them, and by interrogating him as to whether he had read them, and if he happened not to have read them throughout, to move for their rejection. The hon. baronet had said, that he had read the prayer and an abstract of the contents: but the question was simply, whether an individual member's opinion on the subject of offensive matter was to be taken. The hon baronet had said, that he had so many to present that he had not time to read them all. It was his duty to know the substance, and it appeared that he did so, though he had not read the petition 153literatim.Mr. Abercrombie,
 said, that as to any exercise of discretion which a member might think necessary in governing his conduct, that was wholly foreign to the subject then before them. One thing the Chair had distinctly laid down, which, till over-ruled by higher authority, if higher could be found, that House was bound to observe. They had a right so exact from every member who presented a petition, that he should first read that petition. With regard to what the hon. member who spoke last had attempted to engraft upon the question, about examinations and cross-examinations, he should get rid of them at once; for upon every petition presented by the hon. baronet, it would be enough to ask the simple question, have you read it? If answered in the negative, the House was bound to refuse its being brought up.Mr. Canning
 observed, that the last right hon. gentleman had already made his declaration against all reform; and he might therefore think a petition praying for it quite indecorous. But how could it appear so to those who were friends to reform, and must therefore think such a petition constitutional? The question about presenting petitions must, therefore, in his mind, be resolved into merely a matter of individual judgment as to its exercise.Sir Gilbert Heathcote
154 said, that the hon. baronet had certainly misunderstood him. He
154Mr. Canning
 requested to know whether the hon. baronet had read it.Mr. Canning
 said, it was extremely possible to imagine that a member of parliament could not read writing. There certainly was a time when many members who sat in that House could not; and if the present doctrine was to be enforced, it would be necessary to make reading one of the qualifications for a seat in parliament. All he should say to the right hon. gentleman was, that he would not answer any question he might put to him. He stood there to represent the grievances of the country; grievances so enormous that they could no longer be borne. He spoke the language, not of himself, but of half a million of Englishmen; and was the House prepared to say it would not listen to that voice? Was it to be endured, in such a moment, when the nation was complaining of its wrongs from one end to the other, that lawyers should get up and cross-examine any member who, in the exercise of his duty, laid before them the petitions of the people? Were they to be told, one day, that the names of petitioners must appear upon the parchment, and another day, that members, must read every petition they present, or it would be rejected? Were such formalities to stand between the people and their representatives; and if not complied with, were the former to be dismissed without a hearing? Was that a time to erect such a barrier? He had already said, that he had perused extracts from the petition, and that he knew its purport; but he was sure, if either himself or the House must read every word contained in the petitions he had to present, it would occupy the greater part of the session. He should say nothing more than merely move that the petition be brought up.Sir F. Burdett
—In order to explain clearly the nature of the present question, and that the House may distinctly understand my motives, in the course I mean to pursue, I request you, Sir, to lay down again, the practice of parliament upon these occasions.Mr. Canning
 said, he had only sent back the petition, that it might be revised; and that was one advantage of reading petitions before they were presented.The Attorney General
 said, that if it was the duty of a member of parliament to present petitions, it was no less a duty to read them first. He could not conceive how any person could bring forward a petition, and at the same time declare he had not perused it. That House had no other protection against insult, than in the confidence which it reposed in its own members. With respect to the duty of every member of parliament to present whatever petitions may be offered to him, he could not go so far as some hon. gentlemen seemed inclined to do. If a member had reason to believe that the allegations of a petition was false, he was bound to refuse presenting it. When, also, a petition contained serious charges against an individual, and that individual was not previously aware that such a petition was about to be brought forward, he conceived a member should refuse it. Of course he excepted charges against a governor of a distant colony, and similar cases; but if the party against whom the petition might be directed was in the country, he thought every man would only do his duty in not presenting such a petition, unless notice of it was given to the party accused; for no one ought to be exposed to the hazard of an unfounded calumny through that House. A petition, containing not one particle of truth, might otherwise be laid upon their table, printed in their votes, and circulated throughout the country, and when all the mischief was done, another petition might come forward, disproving all that the former had alleged.Mr. Wynn
 contended, that the House was departing widely from the question really before it. The Speaker had declared that the hon. baronet had complied with the forms which the House required, by asserting that the petition contained nothing offensive or derogatory to their dignity and honour.Mr. Abercrombie
—Then upon that ground, Sir, and from a complete conviction that we must abide by our rules, that we must uphold your authority, if we would not compromise our own dignity and honour, as well as the safety of the constitution, I most unwillingly, but forced to it by the hon. baronet himself, object to the bringing up of this unread petition.Mr. Canning
164, in rising to submit a motion to the House, hoped that they would pardon him for so doing, without previous notice; but he was convinced that they were all so well acquainted with the high character and virtues of the illustrious personages who were the subject of it, that they would not hesitate to grant the congratulations usual on the marriage of any branches of the royal family. The right
164The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 agreed in every sentiment expressed by the right hon gentleman, both as to the high character of the illustrious individuals, and the satisfaction that must be felt by the House in congratulating them on their marriage; but he hoped it would not be considered impertinent curiosity, if he should ask, why his majesty's ministers had deviated from the usual custom of noticing, in the Speech from the throne, the marriage of one of the royal family, celebrated during the recess? He did not mention this as a matter of reproach, though it certainly was one of very censurable negligence.Mr. Ponsonby
nem. con. replied, that it had not been considered necessary to notice the marriage as a matter of information in the Speech, the House having been apprised of its intended solemnization during the last session.nem. con.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed a desire, after the candid statement of the noble lord, to set him right as to the expression used by him in an early part of the debate. He did not disclaim any identity of his opinions with the petitioners; he only wished to be understood as not being bound to support the prayer of petitions, which he still thought it his duty to present. He meant to steer a moderate rational course, and to endeavour to unite all classes in an understanding of the wishes of the great body of the petitioners, on the subject of reform. He would be sorry to bring the House into any contest with the country, on a mere point of form, or personal convenience; and he had made the stand that he did against the rule laid down, not from pertinacity, but because he thought the right of petitioning involved in the question. Some of the petitions which he held in his hand he had read since he came into the House, and would move that they be brought up. He moved, therefore, that a petition from certain inhabitants of Halifax be brought up.Sir F. Burdett
162 objected to the rule that had been laid down, imposing upon a member the necessity of reading petitions before he presented them. Cases might occur, in which a member might receive so many, or have so little time, that he could not peruse them all, and thus the subject might suffer because the representatives of the people could not learn then-grievances. He could not see any propriety in objecting to petitions for reform, on the ground that the Commons House, as at present constituted, did not represent the nation, because such allegation could alone justify a call for reform. That the House, which was filled with sinecurists and pensioners, should dislike accusations of venality and corruption was natural; but it was their duty to hear what their constituents had to say against them. He hoped the day was not far distant when such accusations would not be brought against parliament, because such reproaches would be removed. He hoped he should succeed in the motion of which he had given notice, on the subject of
162Lord Cochrane
 presented three other petitions from inhabitants of the town and neighbourhood of Halifax, two of them praying for universal suffrage and annual parliaments, and one for annual parliaments and suffrage co-extensive with direct taxation. They were all read and ordered to lie on the table.Sir F. Burdett
 here interrupted the hon. member, by observing, that with respect to the last point, it could only be a matter of the hon. baronet's own judgment: but he begged to be distinctly understood, that as no member, out of doors, was compellable to accept a petition, so no member in that House was entitled to present one of which he could not aver that he knew the nature.The Speaker
155—I am at all times ready
155The Speaker
150 The hon. baronet has stated all that the House requires. In his judgment, there is nothing, in the lan-
150The Speaker.
 observed, that from the time when there was any memorial existing of the proceedings or parliament, two points were indubitably clear, first, that it was the duty of every member, when be presented a petition, to state its substance; and the House would judge how far a member could do that without reading it: secondly, it was a duty equally incumbent on a member to take care, that whatever might be the allegations of a petition, they should be couched in proper and respectful language. Unless parliament, therefore, were disposed to depart from all its ancient usages in that respect, it would continue to enforce those duties. He had never heard or read any thing contrary to what he then laid down, and the House would abide by its accustomed forms, if it did not wish to introduce a new rule.The Speaker
157 said, that the hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last, had treated the question in a very extraordinary way, and had entirely departed from the original question, which was simply "that the petition be brought up." It was said, that a question to a member was to be put by the order of the House from the Chair. In strict formality this was certainly true. But was it absolutely necessary? Was it not one of those forms which might, without the slightest loss of dignity, and with much convenience, be dispensed with? Was it any novelty to dispense with it? The novelty was, that any gentleman presenting a petition, should make it a part of his speech on the occasion to say, positively "I have not read this petition." This was really the only novelty. An hon. gentleman had alluded to the opinion of the late Mr. Whitbread, that in presenting petitions a member did not make himself answerable for their contents. For his own part he could only say, that he never had heard Mr. Whitbread express such an opinion; but he was very confident that he had often heard him say, on presenting a petition to that House, that he had looked it over, and found nothing offensive in it. And the same thing was always expressed or implied by any member who presented a petition to the House. But it was said, forsooth, that there was no written law for this. Was it necessary that every rule or regulation should be written? Were those laws only to be conformed to which were written laws? Where was the written law to be found that the eldest son should inherit real property? and yet upon the
157Mr. Bathurst
156dictum expressed the most sincere respect and deference for the opinion of the Chair, but yet he implored the House, as it valued the safety of the constitution, as it valued the safety of the whole kingdom, to pause a little before it entered upon that course into which the zeal, and he would say, the presumption of the right hon. gentleman was about to precipitate it. The right hon. gentleman talked about certain rules and practices of that House, as if they were tangible things, as if they could be found upon their journals and records, while in fact he was only appealing to a 156dictumMr. Brougham
163 observed, that after hearing these three petitions, and many others that were offered to the House with the same prayer, he could not help making a few remarks to counteract the absurd and pernicious doctrines that they contained, and to call the attention of parliament and the country to one of the ridiculous blunders, or wilful misrepresentations, on which they all proceeded. He had the greatest respect for some of the petitioners; he gave them credit for the best intentions, and he could find apologies for all their errors; but he was sure they had never read or considered the petitions which they subscribed; they had never weighed the principles which they contained, or the consequences to which they would lead. They were goaded on by distress; they felt all those sufferings and embarrassments so feelingly described by the noble lord opposite; and when they looked for a remedy, they were told by those who were too well informed and too artful to be themselves deceived, that they could only obtain relief by annual parliaments and universal suffrage. He had no objection that those subjects should be discussed, that they should be entertained as political questions, that applications should be made to the House to support them; but what excited his displeasure was, that those who must have read the history of their country, who were not ignorant men, who had reflected long on what they were doing, urged the uninstructed and illiterate to demand universal suffrage as their birthright, to place it in the same rank with personal liberty or security of property, to declare it the ancient imprescriptible right of Englishmen; and told those whose opinions they directed, as a matter of history, that it
163Mr. Brougham
151 said, his hon. and learned friend had carried the rule now contended for, with respect to petitions, a step further. It was not enough that a member must ascertain whether the language was unobjectionable; but he must also see whether the subject itself was fit to be laid before parliament: a previous inquiry into facts was to be instituted, and he supposed the parties were to be called to verify their statements. He implored his hon. and learned friend, in his
151Mr. Brougham
161†160159 said, that as the present petition proceeded from a part of the county which he had the honour to represent, he wished to offer to the House a few observations. He could not help thinking from the language and conduct of the hon. baronet, that he was placed in a situation by the petitioners and his sense of duty, which he had not himself sought, and which might even be considered as a hardship. Numerous petitions were sent him to present, of all the contents of which it was laborious to attain a knowledge, and of all the principles of which he might not entirely approve. Many of them came from the county which he (lord L.) represented, though the petitioners had rather chosen to communicate through the hon. baronet than through him. The hon. baronet had truly stated, that he felt it a great task to read them all, and a rule which imposed this task might be considered as a demand with which he could not comply consistently with presenting the great mass of them which was entrusted to his care. The House, on the other hand, required of every member who brought forward petitions, that he should have read them, and that they should have the security of his judgment and discretion against any offensive or insulting language in which their framers might be pleased to couch them. Here was the point of form:
161†160159Lord Lascelles
147146 rose to second the motion, and in so doing he felt, he said, peculiar gratification, as well from a solicitude for the object which the petition had in view, and the tone in which it was expressed, as from just deference for the invitation with which he had been honoured by the meeting, from which this petition emanated. To the character of that invitation he could not be insensible, and he cer-
147146Mr. Brand
 said, that he always felt a certain degree of pain in adverting to what was called parliamentary reform, because upon that subject he decidedly differed from many persons for whom he entertained the highest respect, and with whom he generally concurred upon important points of public policy. The sentiments which he had expressed on former occasions had indeed undergone no change whatever, but had derived additional confirmation from the manner in which the constitution which the reformers sought to alter, or as they said, to amend, had carried this country through a series of unparalleled difficulties, and would, he had no doubt, enable us to surmount all the obstacles which we had yet to encounter. He therefore hoped that the House would excuse his anxiety to urge that it should pause, particularly at present, when so much vague and dangerous theory was afloat, before it consented to touch the great and complicated frame of the constitution—before it entertained any proposition to innovate upon such a system. He begged that gentlemen of all parties friendly to the main principles of the constitution, would look to the quarters from which the new theories emanated. The views and conduct of many of the actors in this great drama were perfectly well known; indeed, they could not be misunderstood, and he trusted that that House, including the moderate reformers, would not agree to throw open the constitution of this country to the speculations of those state architects. The doctrines which were open promulgated, the publications which were so actively diffused, could leave no doubt as to what these persons had in view, but he confided in the firmness of that House, and the good sense of the country, to preserve our invaluable constitution entire and unimpaired.Mr. Elliot
168l.167l.166165éclat, said, that the arguments which had been advanced in support of the amendment, remained yet wholly unanswered. A right hon. gentleman opposite had, indeed, made a great flourish on the last night of this debate. At one moment he appeared so taken with the amendment, that every body thought it would have had the benefit of his support. He hinted at the resignation of his office, probably making a merit of necessity, and wishing to do, with some degree of 168l.167l.166165éclat,Sir Robert Heron
158 before the question went to the vote, declared his anxiety to state the ground of his decision. He would in the first place contend, that it was the duty of a member to read, previously to its being presented to the House, any petition that he introduced. Whilst, however he considered such the duty of the member, he must still vote for the reception of the present petition, because, from circumstances, the rule should not be invariable. There might be cases, where petitions on subjects of pressing importance were very numerous, where great inconvenience would ensue from
158Sir Samuel Romilly,
145144, in rising to present a Petition from the freeholders and inhabi-
145144Sir W. Lemon
 seeing the right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer in his place, adverted to the proceedings which were had last session, touching the general laws relating to the present mode of collecting tithes, and wished to know whether it was the right hon. gentleman's intention to bring this subject again under the consideration of parliament during this session. The hon. gentleman said, that being prevented from attendance in the House during the discussions alluded to, he was not precisely aware in what situation this important question stood, and he was therefore desirous of knowing the intentions of the right hon. gentleman upon the subject.Mr. Saville,
 referred the hon. gentleman to the Journals of the House for an account of the state of the proceedings upon this matter at the close of the last session. The committee, to whom the subject had been referred, had made a report and it was probable that that report might be brought under the consideration of the House this session.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that as the right hon. gentleman could give no other assurance than a probability, he did not think the matter ought to rest upon such uncertain grounds; and, therefore, unless some member, more able than himself, would have the goodness to bring the subject forward, he gave notice, that soon after the Easter recess, he should feel it to be his duty to bring this interesting question forward. He could not forbear mentioning, that in that part of the country where his own property was situated, there was a lay and a clerical proprietor of tithes, each of whom had a claim upon the land occupier; in consequence of which, his property was scarcely worth holding; and, considering the extent of this evil in various parts of the country, it was of vital importance that the subject should be speedily brought under the attention of parliament.Mr. Saville
179178 said, he rose in pursuance of a notice which had been given by his right hon. friend during his absence, to call the attention of parliament to the late brilliant achievements of his Majesty's fleet before Algiers. During the last session, when the thanks of that House were given to several of our gallant officers for their conduct in the late war, he entertained an earnest hope that a long course of years would have elapsed, before it would be again necessary to perform that ceremony. But though that hope had been partially frustrated, it was at least satisfactory to reflect, that the interval of war which actually succeeded was of short duration, that it arose out of circumstances intimately connected with our honour as a nation; and that it was no less a war of justice and humanity, than one which causes had rendered necessary in defence of our own rights, as well as those of every other country. With respect to the splendid character of the transaction, there could be but one opinion, either in that House or throughout Europe, although perhaps in one point of view the
179178Lord Casltereagh
180 rose to second the motion. He felt himself at all times incapable of doing justice to such a subject, for which no eulogies could be too great; yet he enjoyed such perfect satisfaction in contemplating the enterprise in question, which, considered under all its circumstances, reflected so much glory on all who were concerned in it, that he could not resist expressing what he thought of it. He had always considered lord Exmouth as possessing peculiar good fortune. So great were his professional abilities, that, whatever he undertook, he was sure to succeed in. Even from the commence-mencement of that series of great operations which arose out of the revolutionary war, success had uniformly marked his long career. With respect to the late brilliant enterprise, too much could not be said of it, and it was gratifying to know that the feelings of the House and the country were the same. It was not, as had been falsely and seditiously asserted in some of the petitions thrown on the table of that House, that the feelings of the people and their representatives were at variance. On the contrary, the late expedition proved, that the feelings of the people went fully with those of the House of Commons; for no sooner was the expedition resolved on, than the fleet was manned, not by sailors who had seen long and arduous service, but by persons who voluntarily offered themselves for the noble enterprise, convinced of the justice of the great cause for which they were about to fight. The assistance which the king of the Netherlands had given on the occasion could not be too highly applauded. His noble friend had justly observed, that the people of this country were not aware of the difficulty of the undertaking, and that many doubts were entertained of its succeeding. But he must observe, that public opinion was on such occasions a most severe tribunal; and he must say, in
180Mr. Law
181 felt himself called upon to make a few observations upon what had fallen from the noble lord. When the question of an attack upon Algiers was before that House in another shape, he stated it as his opinion, that two British sail of the line would be sufficient to compel those barbarians to submit to any terms of peace which might be proposed; but he had never said that two sail would be able to cope with their batteries; for he knew too well what batteries could do against ships, when strongly manned, or even when imperfectly manned, to advance such an assertion. He spoke only in reference
181Lord Cochrane
 said, that communications had taken place with the Spanish government, but there was no particular intelligence which he had to lay before the House.Lord Castlereagh
 replied, that it might be imprudent, and even injurious to the individuals themselves, if the correspondence were disclosed.Lord Castlereagh
184 said, that he held in his hand a petition from an unfortunate youth, complaining of a most serious violation of the liberty of the subject. He had that morning had from the petitioner a most intelligent statement of his sufferings — that he had been, on the warrant of a police magistrate, committed to the New Prison of Clerkenwell — had been there immured in a dismal dungeon for twelve days,; with no other subsistence than bread and water. The noble lord said, he had also been enabled to obtain a view of the warrant of his committal, which alleged that he was imprisoned as a vagrant, without any visible means of support. In contradiction, the petitioner stated, that at the very moment he was arrested, he Lad property to the amount of three shillings and sixpence, in money, in his pocket—that he had resided for above three months in the lodgings he then occupied, and obtained an honest livelihood by the sale of religious and moral tracts. Indeed, the boy had written from the prison to his landlady, for the purpose of assuring her, that he had not absconded from his lodgings, accompanied with a request that she would bring him some money of his which remained at her house. On the last day of the sessions the boy was brought up to Hicks's-hall, with twelve other persons, tied together with a rope, and was there discharged. Such a statement would call for the most serious and prompt investigation at all times; but when it was recollected, that during the last year the most nefarious crimes were brought home to police officers, and strong suspicions to police magistrates, and that no notice appeared to be taken of that conduct by the department of state, under whose superintendence these police magistrates were, he sincerely trusted, that the House would feel the present a case of an enormous invasion of the right of the subject, that loudly demanded its interference.—The following petition was then read:184Lord Folkestone
 said, he had no objection to postpone the appointment of a committee till a previous investigation of the circumstances had taken place by the home secretary, provided no delay intervened. Thursday was then suggested as the time when information might be expected, and his lordship consented to postpone the appointment of the committee till that day.Lord Folkestone
 would not consent to consider the question for a committee as carried, but suggested that the regular course would be for the noble lord to withdraw his motion, and bring it forward afterwards, as he should see meet.Lord Castlereagh
187in forma pauperis, said, there was only one alternative in which he would consent to withdraw his motion, and that was in case the learned attorney-general, who had recommended the petitioner to apply for a legal remedy and to sue 187in forma pauperis,Lord Folkestone
in forma pauperis, observed, that he was placed in a situation by the noble lord that no member of parliament was ever placed in before, if it were necessary for him to make the pledge required, in having thus within the walls of the House a retainer proposed to him as a counsel in one of the courts of justice. In his capacity of law officer of the crown he could not be the advocate of the petitioner, and in any other capacity he could not be required to support his cause by any parliamentary application. He could say, however, that if the course he had recommended were followed, there would be no want of legal advice and assistance. If it were stated to the court that he applied to sue in forma pauperis,The Attorney General
 was surprised that the right hon. gentleman had not made one observation about the motion for a committee. Was he against it? [No, no! from several parts of the House.] He could not help, since he was up, making one remark on the place where this poor boy was confined. He thought it utterly disgraceful to the country. No gentleman would keep his hounds in such a wretched place, and with such wretched accommodations, as these poor creatures were confined to.Mr. Bennet
in forma pauperis.186 would ask the House whether it was proper that this case should be examined in parliament in the first instance, or whether it would not be better to adopt a different course, and apply to a court of law for a legal remedy? The petition complained of false imprisonment—of an illegal act. The petitioner stated, that "he had often heard it said, that the law afforded protection to the poor as well as the rich;" and when he had heard it so said, he had heard what was in this country practically true. Let, therefore, a legal remedy be first sought, and if unable to obtain redress in the regular manner, let him then exercise his right to petition the legislature. If this petition was received, the application of no person who complained, in similar circumstances, of personal restraint, could be refused, and the functions of parliament would thus be confounded with those of courts of law. Objections might be started against bringing an action for false imprisonment in this case, but they did not appear to him so strong as to warrant a departure from the usual course. The
in forma pauperis.186The Attorney General
 stated, that the bills pulled down purported to have been printed by Downes, printer to the police offices; that they had been issued under the direction of the magistrates, and that officers had attended the posting up of them, and were afterwards stationed to Watch whether any person would tear them down or deface them, that the person so offending might be dragged before the magistrates, to be treated by them as they thought proper. He felt that unless the subject was examined by a committee, no certain knowledge of the circumstances could be collected; for police officers, and others, might prevaricate and conceal the facts, which they could never venture to do before the House or a committee. He admired the dexterity of those who now argued against having the subject submitted to the House of Commons before it received the decision of a court of justice, remembering that the very same persons, not long since, argued against the interference of the House in cases on which a court of justice had already determined. By such reasoning the House would be precluded altogether from exercising any control over judicial concerns.Lord Cochrane
in forma pauperis,190 expressed a wish that the noble lord would withdraw his motion till the promised report was made by the right hon. secretary. He would not be prevented from bringing it forward again, should the result be unsatisfactory. The fullest investigation had been promised, and the noble lord should allow time for its being made. If he would not consent to withdraw his motion, he might move as an amendment, that the consideration of it be deferred till the report of his majesty's minister be received. The matter was of the greatest importance. Justice must
in forma pauperis,190Mr. Ponsonby
in forma pauperis said, that persons sueing in forma pauperisThe Attorney General
 having finally consented to withdraw his motion, the petition was ordered to lie on the table.Lord Folkestone
 did not rise for the purpose of opposing the substance of this motion, as he was perfectly aware that a supply must be granted; but he rose to say, that as a committee had been proposed, he meant to apprize the noble lord, that if he did not take effectual steps on Friday for the appointment of that committee, he would himself submit a motion to the House on that subject. He was not aware, whether the noble lord had been a party to the delay before, but it was of the utmost importance to the country that no further time should be lost.Mr. Ponsonby
 said, his motive for altering the day from Thursday to Friday was not for the sake of delay, but because it would be more convenient for the statement which he should have to make to the House. He was most anxious to submit to the House what his majesty's ministers thought it most advantageous to propose to parliament under the existing circumstances of the country. The right hon. gentleman could not be more anxious on that subject than he was.Lord Castlereagh
191 had no objection to the motion, but was desirous to know what course was to be pursued on Friday. Did the noble lord mean to follow up his statement by the appointment of a committee; and if so, was that committee to be chosen by ballot, or in the ordinary way? With respect to the general subject of a commit-
191Mr. Calcraft
 said, that the great question of providing the means of a supply was such as must necessarily come under the consideration of the House; and, therefore, however his mind might be made up on the subject, he should refrain from entering into any detail, until he saw to what the general statement might lead.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that this answer was much more acceptable than the reserve of the noble lord. He could not, indeed, expect more from the right hon. gentleman on this occasion. He thought it his duty, however, to repeat the question, whether the noble lord had intended to choose the committee by ballot or by taking names?Mr. Calcraft
 declined giving any answer until he had an opportunity of stating to the House the line of conduct which he meant to adopt.Lord Castlereagh
189in forma pauperisin forma pauperis. was of opinion that the boy could not procure a real effectual remedy by the legal course recommended. There was a considerable difficulty in sueing 189in forma pauperisin forma pauperis.Sir F. Burdett
 said, that there were scores of men at the British bar who would do their duty without any regard to the political opinions of those whose interests they were intrusted with.The Attorney General
 would not consent to withdraw his motion, unless he understood that it would appear on the journals of the House.Lord Folkestone
 informed the noble lord, that this and every other motion was entered on the journals of the House, whatever fate attended it.The Speaker
188 little expected, in the present state of the country, and under the pressure of distress which afflicted such numbers of the people, to hear of a warrant of commitment, recording as cri-
188Lord A. Hamilton
l.177 rose to present two petitions upon this subject, one from the inhabitants of Kirkintilloch, the other from the borough of Rutherglen. The noble lord observed, that the peculiar circumstances under which he then addressed the House, required that he should say a few words before he moved that the petitions should be brought up. Short as was the space of time since parliament had assembled, it had yet called forth from the opposite benches, a strong and decided opinion against every species of reform. This expression was certainly elicited by petitions of a different tenour from those which he had to present. The petitions with which he was entrusted neither desired annual parliaments, nor universal suffrage; he hoped, therefore, they would not be identified with any such productions. Both these petitions lamented the exorbitant expenditure of the public money; they stated the harassing situation of the petitioners, whose distress was so great that no exertion of labour or industry within their reach could supply them
l.177Lord A. Hamilton
The prima facie said, that though his hon. and learned friend could not be called upon, as law officer of the crown, in the present stage of the proceeding, to be counsel in supporting the cause of the petitioner, he might subsequently be required to be so by a vote of the House. He did not wish to prejudge the case, ignorant as he was of the circumstances. The prima facieMr. Brougham
 said, that a hint from the noble lord on this subject would be enough to stop his mouth, as the noble lord must certainly be the best judge as to what injury might result from making any communication on this business; but from the noble lord's silence, he supposed that he must understand that government had done all in the matter that they could, though not backed by a vote of parliament, but that all their endeavours had completely failed.Mr. Brougham
 asked whether the noble lord would have any objection to lay the correspondence that had passed upon the table.Mr. Brougham
 inquired, whether the noble lord opposite could communicate any information to the House respecting the fate of Correa, and those other unfortunate Spanish Patriots who were lingering in prison? He presumed his majesty's government had represented their case to his most Catholic majesty.Mr. Brougham
 saw no ground for receiving this petition; if they did receive it, they would be inquiring into the conduct of a magistrate, against whom the petitioner had his proper remedy elsewhere, and the boy did not seem to be without friends to assist him in his course. If this mode of seeking redress were to be allowed on every false arrest, a petitioner, without even the formality of an oath, could call upon the House to decide upon the merits of his case. The complainant had his remedy in due course of law. His claim by petition ought to be his last, not his first resource.Mr. Wrottesley
 submitted to the noble mover, whether it would not be more correct and becoming to postpone his motion for a committee for a day or two, in order to allow time to inquire into the circumstances. If the noble lord did so, he would pledge himself to enter fully into the investigation, and inform the House of the result.Mr. Addington
185 assured the House, that he knew nothing of the case described by the noble mover and brought forward in the petition, than what he had read in the public papers. None of the facts or allegations had come to him through any other channel. He had seen the exami-
185Mr. Addington
nem. con.,182 said, that, as a very new member of the House, he felt some diffidence in obtruding himself on their attention, but he could not refrain from paying his humble tribute of admiration to the British navy, the pride and bulwark of this country; besides which, the high respect he entertained for lord Exmouth would not allow him to give a silent vote. The thanks proposed were for a victory, the shouts of joy for which had been re-echoed through all the nations of Europe. The noble lord, as had been already observed had continued a career of success from the beginning to the end of the war; he had had the felicity of striking the first and the last blow. Scarcely had a year passed since the commencement of hostilities with France, when the enemy, loudly boasting that, inspired by republican freedom, they would humble our pride and lower our flag, in which lord Exmouth had not had an opportunity of chastising them for their vain glorious insolence. The hon. gentleman proceeded to notice the different actions in which the noble lord had been engaged during the war, till he came to the period of his command in India. He alluded to the vigilance with which he chased the enemy from our extensive shores, and gave such powerful protection to our commerce in those seas, that property to the amount of millions had been saved, which would have otherwise fallen into their hands. Reverting to the results of the expedition to Algiers, he descanted on the happiness conferred on the unfortunate persons restored to liberty, and the benefits which all European nations must derive from the protection of our flag, which now waved
nem. con.,182Mr. Money
206 said, the feeling of the House must ever be in favour of receiving petitions, and it never could be their wish, in considering what was due to their dignify and what was their duty, to throw any obstacles in the way of petitioners. He thought the hon. member who presented this petition had gone most unnecessarily out of the way, and he hoped it would be felt, that if the motion were opposed, it was not from any wish on that side of the House, to get rid of the petition, but from a desire to assert a principle which had now been brought into discussion. He apprehended the rule of the House to be founded in true wisdom, and true wisdom went to throw open their doors to petitioners in the largest sense, and doing this to be careful not to depart
206Lord Castlereagh
 thought it was rather hard on so respectable a body of men as the petitioners, that their petition should be rejected, because the member presenting it, had expressed an opinion on a matter with which they in the present instance had nothing to do. After all, it could not be doubted that every member would exercise his own discretion whenever a petition was brought for him to present, and he hoped the noble lord would not persevere in his opposition on the present occasion.Sir F. Burdett
 presented a petition from certain burgesses and other inhabitants of the town of Hamilton, in Lanarkshire. On a former evening, when presenting a petition, he had been unable to speak to the character and situation of the persons from whom he had received it. In the present instance he could state to the House, that those from whom the petition now in his hand came, were persons of religious habits, whose industry had heretofore maintained them in comfort, and whose general peaceable demeanour could not be called in question. They stated, in temperate language, the distress of which they had to complain, and the grievances which, at length, compelled them to come before that honourable House. Their prayer was for retrenchment in the public expenditure, and for a reform in the House of Commons. Ordered to lie on the table.Lord Cochrane
205204 regretted exceedingly, that he should find himself called upon to oppose the bringing up of this petition, but remembering what he had heard repeatedly from the oldest members of that House, and the firmest friends of the British constitution, that a member presenting a petition should be held to give his sanction to the language of it, though not to the prayer, he, for one, would not
205204Mr. Wynn
 observed, that no question would have been agitated upon the subject of this petition, if the hon. member had not sought it by stating his objection to saying that he had read it.Mr. Canning
 thought that the hon. member had fully complied at first with the rules of the House, in saying he had read the petition, though, he afterwards started the general question about the necessity of his compliance. If he would repeat what he had first stated, so as to undo the effect of his subsequent observations, he would vote for the reading of the petition. The hon. member might bring forward the subject on another occasion.Mr. Bankes
 said, that an hon. baronet had been questioned on a former night in consequence of his having said he had not read one of the petitions he presented. In the present case no one would have thought of asking the hon. gentleman a question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
209 in rising on the present occasion to submit a motion to the House, was happy to think the proposition he had to offer was one on which he could not apprehend the slightest difference of opinion would exist, as it merely went to acknowledge the receipt of the Prince Regent's most gracious message, and to assure his royal highness that that House would take into its most serious consideration the papers he had ordered to be communicated to them without delay. Whatever the situation of things might be at present, nothing could be further from his wish, than to say, one word that might lead to a debate on the present state of the country, as the very nature of the communication which had been made indicated secrecy to be desirable, as the
209Lord Castlereagh,
 declared, that he did not rise to offer any observation in opposition to the motion of the noble lord. But he was solicitous to ascertain from him whether it was, or was not, in his contemplation to proceed immediately on the subject, as in his judgment it was one of ail others, in reference to which any delay must be pregnant with public danger [Hear, hear!].Mr. Ponsonby
 in answer, stated, that it was the intention to adhere strictly to the precedent established in the year 1795.Lord Castlereagh,
 begged to observe, that the noble lord had stated the contents of the petition, and, in so doing, had satisfied all the forms contended for in the presentation of petitions.Sir F. Burdett
 said, he should not oppose its being laid on the table, but he should certainly oppose any further proceedings on the allegations which it contained.Lord Castlereagh
214 approved the course that the hon. and learned gentleman had taken in letting it lie on the table, and he thought it probable that no further steps would be taken, as though lie knew nothing of the transaction, he was convinced, on explanation, it would prove to be no serious intention of obstructing the right of petition, but a mere coarse joke, such as he knew to be common among the lower classes of the manufacturing districts. That it appeared to him a new petition might easily have been prepared and signed in the course of a few ours; the persons who signed the former one and the parchment being at hand;
214Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
 could not suffer this matter to pass without making one or two remarks. And, first, he must express the extreme satisfaction which he felt at the temperate and moderate language in which his hon. and learned friend had stated this most extraordinary occurrence to the House. The hon. member opposite had been pleased to call it only a coarse joke; but to him it appeared one of the most gross and flagrant violations of the privileges of the people, and of that House, that had ever occurred. In the present situation of the country nothing could be more dangerous than to give the people an opportunity of stating, that their petitions: were not suffered to reach that House. The distresses of all classes of the community were unparalleled in the history of the country; and they should be permitted, at least, to state their grievances, in order that the House might adopt the most effectual means of administering relief. His hon. and learned friend had very properly suggested, that other information might be afforded on the facts of this petition; but if that information was not presented to the House, he hoped nothing would prevent his hon. and learned friend from showing to the people, that their sacred and indubitable right of petitioning would be preserved, at least by the faithful representatives of the country.Mr. Ponsonby
 concurred in the praise due to the temperate and proper mode in which the petition was introduced, and he regretted that such a subject had for a moment been treated with levity. It was a duty paramount to all others for the House to show the people that it would protect the humblest individual in the land from any obstruction to his right of petition—a right solemnly recognized by the Bill of Rights, and the fair exercise of which could not for a moment be trenched upon. The House, when such an allegation as this petition contained was made, should trace the matter to its source, and show that they would not allow such an outrage to be for a moment endured.Mr. Wynn
 denied that he had treated the subject with levity. He really believed that, on inquiry, it would prove as he had said.Mr. B. Wilbraham
 admitted a fact to have been stated of which he was not aware, and which went to do away some of the arguments he had used on the preceding day, but his view of the general merits of the case was not affected by this statement.Lord Folkestone
 rose to present a petition from, a gentleman who complained of being the object of much oppression and misrepresentation. If the petition contained allegations that were untrue, let them be controverted; if, on the contrary, they were true, let the individual have an opportunity of maintaining them. The noble lord then stated, that the petition which he held, was from Mr. Henry Hunt, who complained of a libel having being sent forth upon his character. He stated, that he could prove it to have been printed at the office of the police printer; to have been issued from a police office; to have been, when affixed to different walls of the metropolis, watched by officers of the police stationed for the purpose; and, lastly, that copies of the paper so placarded, were deposited at a police office, for the purpose of enabling the parties who detected others tearing down the bills to identify the torn part from the whole copy so deposited. He hoped, that if such facts were proved at the bar of that House, they would feel the necessity of addressing the Prince Regent, entreating that he would dismiss from the commission of the peace, a magistrate who would be found to have so violated his duty. He concluded by moving, that the petition be brought up.Lord Cochrane
 apprehended the rule of the House to be what had been laid down on a former day, and what had been correctly stated by an hon. gentleman on this, that the House had a right to expect a member presenting a petition, would be prepared to declare the language of it was not in his opinion intentionally disrespectful. If he refused to give such a pledge, it seemed hard that the House should be expected to depart from its established rules to receive the petition so presented. The member ought in the first instance to satisfy himself that the language of it was not improper.The Speaker
207 after alluding to what had passed on the same subject on a previous evening, observed, that if the hon. member who presented this petition had omitted his observations, it was probable that the petition would have met with no opposition. He might suspect, in such a case, that a member thought that his petition would not be received when read; but he imputed no such thoughts to the hon. gentleman, who, he rather believed, wished merely to raise the question. He could
207Mr. Bathurst,
213212 said, he held in his hand a petition from a number of the inhabitants of Warrington, in the county palatine of Lancaster, complaining of a gross violation of the subject's best privilege—the right of petition. If the facts alleged in the petition were borne out, and in their support he had two affidavits, he sincerely hoped, that whilst documents, probably of an opposite tendency, were about to be referred to a committee soon to be appointed, the subject's complaint of grievances would also be entertained and examined. It was the indubitable duty of the king's government to preserve the public peace, and of that House to support the executive in the
213212Mr. Brougham
 said, at present he should merely move that the petition do lie on the table, in order to give every opportunity to the parties complained against of vindicating themselves, and to put the House in possession of every fact. If this opportunity was not embraced, he should in eight or ten days, feel it his duty to take some further measures.Mr. Brougham
 trusted his hon. friend would not give the House the trouble of dividing, but he also trusted that he would not comply with the request of the last speaker. If it were felt that a member ought to read a petition before he presented it, let a fair and honourable understanding be come to on the subject on both sides; but he hoped that no member nor even the House itself, would get into the habit of administering interrogatories to every hon. gentleman who might present a petition. Such a course, he contended, was extraordinary and unparliamentary, and would lead to a course of examination that would be very inconvenient, as, after the question—"Have you read the petition?" the next question undoubtedly would be—"Is it fit to be presented?" and if a doubt occurred here, it would then be asked—"What do yon think of it upon the whole?" To this he must object, and he therefore hoped his hon. friend would not repeat what he had before stated, in compliance with the suggestion of the last speaker.Mr. Brougham
 said, he had taken the earliest opportunity of bringing the case of Thomas Dugood under the consideration of the noble lord at the head of the department to which he belonged, and it had been ascertained that the youth had not been committed by a police magistrate, as stated by the noble lord. The committal had been signed by a magistrate for the county of Middlesex.Mr. Addington
 had always thought the member presenting a petition bound to read it, but not to go further, and vouch for the propriety of the language it contained, excepting in particular cases, where the House having reason to believe the matter of it was offensive, might require some assurance on the subject. The opinion he had formed had been confirmed by what occurred a few days back. When the hon. baronet had brought up his first petition, no questions had been asked; but when one or two had been read, and found to be disrespectful to the House, and couched in nearly the same terms, he had properly been asked if those which he was subsequently about to present were of the same character. When called to state what the character of a petition might be, he thought the member presenting it was bound to give a pledge, that it contained nothing improper, but he did not think he was called upon to do this in the first instance.Mr. Lockhart
211 felt it right to object to the extraordinary course which was about to be taken on this occasion. Let the House reflect for u moment on the
211Mr. Serjeant Best
 replied, that no one was: more ready to bow to the authority of the chair than himself, but he considered the present question as one of great importance. It was upon the principle alone that he stood. He never doubted the power of the House to require of any member that he should declare a petition to be such as the House might receive, or that he might be called upon to read a petition in his place, and in the latter case it would not appear on their journals, if couched in improper language. They could not expect that petitions upon reform, or upon grievances arising from a want of reform, would be expressed in very conciliatory terms; but he did not think it was the duty of a member to make himself the channel of refusal, if he considered a petition objectionable. He was, therefore, ready to abide by the decision of the House on the present occasion, whatever that decision might be.Mr. W Smith
203 said, he had a petition to present from Norwich, which he did not know contained airy thing improper or
203Mr. W. Smith
222221 rose to present the Petition of the distressed inhabitants of the metropolis and the vicinity, praying for reform, agreed to at Spa-fields, on the 2nd of December last. It was signed, he said, by 24,000 names. It complained of the intolerable weight of taxation, of the distresses of the country, and of the squandering of the money extracted from the pockets of an oppressed and impoverished people, to support sinecure placemen and pensioners. It appeared to the noble lord surprising, how there could be any set of men so cruel and unjust as to wallow in wealth at the public expense, while poor
222221Lord Cochrane
223, in proposing to the House a motion for leave to bring in a bill to regulate Saving
223Mr. Rose
 was anxious that it should not go forth, that he had said that the poor-rates would be diminished by the institution of saving banks. All that he said was this; that when the annual amount of the poor-rates was seven millions, it was highly desirable to employ any remedy which might tend to ameliorate the condition of the poor by stimulating their industry, and thus gradually and slowly, though still in the end effectually, operating to the diminution of the distresses of the lower orders, and consequently, as he apprehended, ultimately enabling many of the lower classes to provide for themselves, who would otherwise be a burthen on the public. As the benefits and advantages of these institutions seemed to be allowed on all hands, he would only for the present say, that he conceived that the passing such a bill as that which he intended to introduce, was absolutely necessary for the prosperity of these institutions. An hon. gentleman thought that, in the present times, these banks were not likely to do for the common run of people of the lower classes. Now against this, he would say, that they would do for the common run of people; that he knew from his own experience, that they would do; that in his own neighbourhood at this very time he knew many labouring people, who, amidst all the distresses of the times, paid a shilling a week into the saving banks.Mr. Rose
 apprehended, that the intended bill would produce more harm than good. Last year the right hon. gentleman had withdrawn Scotland from his bill, and England was now going on extremely well without such an act of parliament. He had supported the right hon. gentleman in this measure last year, but he was now of another opinion, and thought it quite unnecessary.General Thornton
 moved the order oil the day for proceeding to ballot for the Committee of Secrecy, which was agreed to, and the ballot ordered to proceed. The Speaker then desired the clerk to read over the names of the members in the order of their counties, and desired such members as had prepared lists of names for the committee to deliver them at the table. The clerk then read over the names of the members in the order of their counties. Many members deposited their lists in the glass now on the table. The Speaker desired the clerk to read over in the same order the names of all those members who had not answered to the first call: which the second clerk accordingly did. The Speaker observed, that it would then be necessary to appoint a committee to ascertain those members on whom the choice of the House had fallen to compose the committee.Lord Castlereagh
220 observed, that there was clearly a considerable loss of time in the present mode of proceeding in the election of a committee of secrecy. About an hour had been occupied in receiving the lists in the urn on the table, and after this they must appoint scrutineers, who must retire and cast up the numbers, and then decide who were precisely the 21 members elected for the committee, as the individuals chosen freely and deliberately for an investigation, which might be so important to the interests of the country. The practice of balloting had unquestionably many recommendations for cases of this description; and the time it occupied was of little consequence when compared with the probabilities of a fair, due, and unbiassed election; but notwithstanding all this, he thought the time of the House might have been conveniently saved on this occasion, had the noble lord merely risen, and read over a list of the persons whom he intended to form the committee of secrecy. He believed he might almost venture to predict the names of all the members who would be chosen; so that the business might have been got through without the necessity of any committee of scrutiny, or of going through any sort of arithmetical operation. He should read to the House a list, which he
220Mr. Brougham
225l.l.l.224 considered it impossible that, in the event of the funds falling, any subscriber wishing to draw out his money should be able to receive the sum which in the first instance had been deposited with the directors of these provident institutions. He was of opinion, that the person funding should have this option, whether he would invest it in one fund or the other. Whatever might be thought
225l.l.l.224Mr. Curwen
 conceived, that it was impossible at present to alter the system of administering the poor laws. All that could be submitted to the overseers was, the immediate wants of those who applied, and the number of their families, and they were then obliged to administer relief.Mr. Lockhart
 wished to submit to the House an observation or two in consequence of this and other petitions, although he was sensible of how little weight his opinions were. He would not touch the great question of parliamentary reform; but, feeling as he did, the blessings we enjoyed as a nation, venerating the constitution of his country from the deepest conviction of the benefits it conferred and the excellence of the institutions it protected; believing that it secured to all who had the happiness to live under it a greater degree of practical liberty and individual enjoyments than ever fell to the lot of any other nation in any other age, he could not free his mind from some alarm at the disorganizing doctrines that were now so industriously propagated—doctrines which had formerly been propagated in this country, which had been abandoned from a sense of the evils with which they were pregnant, and which he never expected to see again prevalent; doctrines which being wildly followed in a neighbouring country had produced results not only disgraceful to human nature, from their atrocity and cruelty, but destructive of liberty itself. Acting under the impression of danger from the wild schemes afloat, but not relaxing in his vigilance in watching the expenditure, and recommending every practical reduction that might allay popular irritation or alleviate national distress, he was prepared to concur in any measures that might have for their object to resist the machinations of those men, some of them deluded, but others wicked and dangerous, who under the name of reform, were endeavouring to effect revolution, and to involve the country in anarchy and confusion.Mr. Grenfell
226 said, that his right hon. friend proposed to introduce a system which would teach the poor what they were capable of doing by their own exertions. He therefore really felt that this was one of the class of things for which he, the House, and the country, were extremely indebted to his right hon. friend. The poor laws, no doubt, were a very heavy burthen in these times, but it was rather the administration of those laws than the laws themselves which had produced the evil. If the measure which his right hon. friend proposed did nothing more, it was much if it brought the principle into action which should gradually show the people, that they were capable of doing that for themselves which they now called upon the country to do. For his own part, admitting, in the fullest degree, the evils which the poor laws pro-
226Mr. Wilberforce
 said, it was not his intention to oppose the motion; but when the proper time came, he should certainly oppose the two clauses alluded to by the right hon. gentleman. He understood the object of the present bill to be to enact certain regulations for the management of the institutions in question; but as he had heard no complaint of any want of bye-laws in those saving banks already established, and as there had been no petition presented, he was inclined to think that this bill would be unnecessary, although he did not wish prematurely to express any opinion against it. He fully concurred in the sentiments of the right hon. gentleman as to the utility of saving banks.Sir C. Monck
 rose for the purpose of presenting a petition, signed by 30,050 of the inhabitants of Manchester, praying for a radical reform in parliament, and for the abolition of sinecures and pensions. He thought it his duty to state that he had read the petition, but that he could not take upon himself to be responsible that the language of the petition was such as the House was likely to think unobjectionable. At the same time, he thought there was nothing in it very violent or obnoxious, although the petitioners stated their grievances in strong terms. After stating that the distresses of the people at the present moment were such as to justify their stating their complaints to the House, he took the opportunity of mentioning that he had calculated the comparative amount of the contributions of some of those who had put their names to the subscriptions for the relief of the poor, with the annual amount of the sinecures which they held; and it was with much pain that he found that no sinecurist had paid above a penny in the pound on the annual amount of his salary. One noble duke had paid only 16–17ths of a farthing in the pound on the income which he derived annually from his sinecure. For the present, he would content himself with moving that the petition should be brought up, not taking upon himself any responsibility as to its contents, farther than the rules of the House required with relation to his motion. He then moved that the petition be brought up.Lord Cochrane
 said, that knowing the petition contained expressions precisely similar to those which had been found in others rejected by the House, he thought it his duty to mention it, that he might not incur their censure for appearing to disregard their recent decision.Lord Cochrane
 observed, that it would be unnecessary to trouble the House with any further perusal of it, for being expressed in language similar to that which had caused the rejection of a former petition, they had only the same course to adopt on the present occasion.Lord Castlereagh
 hoped the House would not reject the petition upon the reading of a single line or two.Lord Cochrane
 repeated his former objections, and urged that, as the petitioners described that House as an usurpation upon the constitution, no other arguments would be required to induce them to reject the petition.Lord Castlereagh
 in consequence of what fell from the hon. and learned gentleman, thought it necessary to observe that it was totally a mistake to suppose that any difference of opinion as to the policy of the war existed between the marquess of Hastings and his council.Mr. Canning,
 said, the former petition was not rejected on account of that single libellous and insulting passage alluded to by the hon. and learned gentleman, but from its whole tenor. The present petition was the same in every respect, except that one paragraph, as the former, and that paragraph had been supplied by another equally offensive; for the petitioners now stated, that "in all the discussions of that House they saw nothing but a direct tendency to keep the people in all times under the unrelenting lash of a taxation, which already exceeded the utmost extent of human endurance." He thought that House would exceed the utmost extent of human endurance if they suffered such a petition to lie on the table.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
, with reference to the passage which had just been read, could only say, that he conceived it to be true that the misery now suffered by the lower classes of society had got to the utmost extent of human endurance. He could only say, with respect to what had fallen from the hon. and learned gentleman, that when he read this petition he conceived it to be in exactly the same language with that which the House had rejected, and that not intending to press upon the House what they had already rejected, he thought it his duty to preface his motion with the statement which he had made.Lord Cochrane
 said, no man was more desirous to facilitate and extend the right of petitioning than himself, and there were many things prayed for in the present one, such as reform, economy, &c. which had his cordial support. But so long as he had a vote to give, or a voice to raise, in that House, he would use them both against receiving any petition, the language of which was evidently to convey an insult. He knew there was a set of men in the country, who studiously endeavoured to induce the people to word their petitions in such a way as would occasion their rejection, in order to promote their own views [Hear, hear!]. If the House wished to be respected out of doors, it must continue to respect itself. The cause of reform and retrenchment was one which he would always advocate; but he saw no reason why the members of that House should, in their collected state, consent to put up with language which no man singly would endure; and therefore he should vote against allowing this petition to remain on the table.Sir J. Sebright
238 said, he thought the dignity of the House would be best consulted by reforming its own abuses. The present petitioners might perhaps be somewhat indecorous in their language, but they had great and strong grievances to represent; and unless there was something extraordinarily offensive, something unlike what
238Sir F. Burdett
 wished the noble lord, or the right hon. gentleman opposite, would state the particular sentences or expressions that were objectionable, that they might be avoided in future petitions.Lord Cochrane
241240239§ said, that in rising pursuant to his notice to call the attention of the House to the gallant conduct of our army in India, he was aware how comparatively deficient in importance it would appear when contrasted with the brilliant achievements and splendid victories of our armies in Europe. He was aware that distance operated to diminish and to obscure. He was aware, too, of the degree of interest which attached to those transactions nearer home, on which depended, not the preservation of any distinct branch of our empire, but our national safety and independence. But under all the disadvantage of such comparisons, he felt that both justice and policy made it incumbent on the House, not to pass over without notice those transactions which had lately taken place in India. Justice was not local or comparative. With whatever feelings the soldier went forward to his task, whether in a distant country or nearer home, he exerted all his energies and incurred equal dangers. And in India, where our army was opposed to a force of a very peculiar nature, and fought in a strange country under many disadvantages, their achievements were not less severe or less difficult, and the House would feel that it ought rather to seek than to shun an opportunity of showing these gallant men that their services were duly estimated. But he thought that there was good policy in noticing any achievements in our Indian empire, because it would show that the House had a watchful eye over the most distant part of his majesty's dominions, as much to give praise where it was due, as to control where there was blame. The country of Nepaul, which was the scene of the actions to which he wished to call the attention of the House, was some years ago probably almost unknown to most members of the House. It had grown
241240239§Mr. Canning
242 alluded to the necessity of supporting the moral force on which our empire in India was founded, and
242Lord Morpeth
243 did not intend to oppose by any means the vote of thanks to the noble marquis, although he had heard that a diversity of opinion existed with respect to some of the measures pursued by the noble marquis. Under these circumstances, he should have thought it not inconsistent with the respect due to parliament, that ministers should have given the House some information, by presenting papers upon the subject for its perusal. The difference of opinion, as to the policy and conduct of the war, to which he alluded, existed in a quarter well known to that House and the India board. Mr. Edmonstone and Mr. Dowdeswell's names were familiar to all persons conversant with Indian affairs; one had been at the head of the military, the other at the head of the civil department, during a splendid career of successes, and an able administration of our affairs in that part of the world, not to be equalled in the history of India, or of any of our colonies. He alluded to the distinguished period of the marquess Wellesley's administration. He, however, could not but feel it a duty particularly gratifying to the House, to return thanks to the gallant and meritorious officers and soldiers concerned in the operations of that campaign. Yet even here he could not but regret that, a set of arrangements had been made by the institution of the new order of the bath, by which all officers in the East India service who had not attained the rank of major, were excluded by positive regulations from becoming members of that order, as well as all officers engaged in affairs previous to the present war. There was an exception to the first rule in favour of such captains as had been appointed captains in the field, from the circumstance of their superior having fallen in action. By these arrangements it would be seen, that most of the officers engaged in that war, which, in 1799, had, under the conduct of the marquess Wellesley, completely overthrown the power of the most inveterate and dangerous enemy of the views of this country, Tippoo Saib—were, notwithstanding such gallant exploits, precluded from the only order of merit now known to our military establishment. Hence it arose, that the time
243Mr. Brougham
236 said, he had thought the present petition was precisely the same as the one which the House had formerly rejected, from the observations of the noble lord who presented it; but now, upon its being read, and that was one of the advantages of reading it, it turned out to be very different. If he rightly recollected the proceedings on the former occasion, the objectionable passage of the petition related to what the petitioners called, the tedious and disgusting debates of that House; and upon that ground the petition was rejected. That passage however, was now left out. He admitted the words of the petition were not very prudent or very moderate, but in substance, they contained no other statement than what every man must use who supported the question of parliamentary reform in that
236Mr. Brougham
235 observed, that the noble lord unintentionally he was convinced appeared to him to have taken the only method that could be adopted to prevent the petition from being read. It was signed, it seemed, by 30,000 of his fellow subjects, and the noble lord must doubtless be anxious that it should be read; but in order to attain that object, it was not necessary he should voluntarily inform the House, before any question was asked, that it contained matter which might be deemed objectionable. The rule had been so laid down by the chair, and sanctioned by the decision of the House. It was enough for any member, when he had a petition to present, to move that it should be read, and if no other member expressed his doubts of the propriety of its language, the House would assume that it was not improper; but he apprehended it was utterly inconsistent with parliamentary usage for a member gratuitously to state that he had read a petition, and then
235Mr. Brougham
237 acknowledged that the expressions were strong, and the conduct of the petitioners highly injudicious; but the House should rather extend the principle of free petitioning than seek to limit it. The language might indeed sound harshly to their ears, but it must be allowed, that while the people approached the House with their petitions, it was a perfect acknowledgment of the power and authority of parliament. A petition, of a nature at least as offensive as the present, had some years ago been presented to the House. It stated that the sale of seats in that House had been as notorious as the sale of cattle in Smithfield; and yet, when objections were raised against its being received, Mr. Pitt himself contended for its admission, on the principle that more injury must result from its rejection. If there were in
237Mr. Curwen
 contended, that it was impossible to collect the real sentiments of the people, from the manufactured petitions which were prepared by others for their signature. He had never heard or read of any legislative assembly in any country, who were respected, trusted, and looked up to, in proportion as they suffered themselves to be insulted. An hon. gentleman opposite had said it would be more magnanimous not to notice such language. He confessed he did not understand that sort of magnanimity which consisted in the tame endurance of an injury. He believed that persons who used that kind of language, in speaking of the unconstitutional nature of the House of Commons, did so, in order, if any concessions should be made, if any reform granted, that they might be able to deny their validity, and thus endeavour to render them abortive.Mr. Lockhart
245 rose, according to notice, to move for the introduction of a bill to amend the bankrupt laws. He conceived this subject to be one of the highest importance to the honour, the honesty, and the morals of the country, and was sorry it was to be his misfortune to bring it forward in so thin a House. The evil of which he complained, was the multiplication of fraudulent bankruptcies to an extent which threatened the most frightful consequences to the commerce and morals of the country. He was far from meaning that kind of bankruptcy which had been on so many instances of late occasioned by the fluctuations of our currency, or the precarious situation of trade. Neither did he mean, for the prevention of the evil to which he alluded, to propose the formation of any new tribunal, or to throw any onerous burthen on the courts that already existed. His remedy should contain very little of novelty in it. The notorious evil to which he now adverted, was defined in the very first statute passed on the subject of bankruptcy in the reign of Henry 8th. The preamble of that statute spoke of the practice of men obtaining possession of other people's property by fraudulent means, and then fleeing into foreign parts. Notwithstanding the numerous statutes which had passed successively since then, fraudulent practices of this nature were daily on the increase; and this increase he was inclined to ascribe to the mode of examination pursued by the commissioners, which was mainly directed to the point, whether the bankrupt had concealed any part of his property, and only incidentally, if at all, to the arts by which he came into possession of that property, or how he had made away with it. When satisfied on the first of these points, the commissioners generally agreed to sign his certificate; the next part of the process was, for the bankrupt to obtain the signatures of 3-5ths in value of his creditors, and that once obtained, the whole only awaited the fiat of the chancellor. Thus the bankrupt was again let loose on the world, whatever his fraudulent practices might have been; without any distinction of character being made between him and the honest bankrupt, who had failed in his engagements through unavoidable misfortunes. The mode of remedy he meant to propose was, that the commissioners instead of investigating merely whether the bankrupt
245Mr. Lockhart
246 rose to present the petition of the lord mayor, aldermen, and livery of London, in common hall assembled, praying for a reform in parliament, for public economy, abolition of sinecures and unmerited petitions, and for triennial parliaments. How the petition came into his
246Mr. Calvert
 said, the hon. baronet was misrepresenting him. So far from being a friend to the scheme of annual parliaments and universal suffrage, he considered them as most wild and dangerous. All he wished was, that the decays of the constitution should be repaired.Mr. Calvert
250l. said, he did not wish to take up the time of the House with any observations upon parliamentary reform, a notice upon that subject had been given, and when it was regularly brought forward, and some distinct propositions submitted, then would be the time for entering into the discussion. He did not see, indeed, how any arguments could properly apply, before such propositions were presented, for the question of reform, generally, involved every topic, from annual parliaments and universal suffrage, down to the disfranchising a particular borough, against which gross and notorious corruption had been proved. Some allusions, however, had been made to the declaration of a noble lord, who stated, on a former night, the way in which he first came into parliament for the borough of Honiton; a statement which he heard, and he believed the whole House heard, with a disgust which it would be difficult to describe. He was aware, from the length of time that had elapsed, the noble lord was now exempt from the penalties he had incurred. But was that all? He should have thought that no member could have stood up in that House, and gloried in his misconduct —gloried in his violation of the privileges of that House, his violation of the liberties of the subject, and of the principles of the constitution. Could they have expected that the noble lord himself would now turn round, and reproach those whom he had seduced into that crime? For a crime it was against the constitution of the country. Another hon. member bad like-wise stated, that he was one of six who returned two members to parliament, those members paying each 4,500250l.Mr. Wynn
 desired to explain. The hon. gentleman had totally misunderstood him. He had spoken as if he (Mr. C.) had been one of the persons who had, been engaged in the sale of the borough, and had participated in the profits. The fact was quite the reverse. It was he (Mr. C.) himself, who had been sold, before he gave his vote, and he did not know it. This was the most grievous circumstance that he had to complain of.Mr. Calvert
 admitted that he was entirely under a misunderstanding; although he did not conceive that the hon. gentleman had participated in the money. But the fact ought to be known, and he would have served his country most effectually by assisting in bringing the criminal to justice.Mr. Wynn
 could not help regretting, that such petitions were manufactured by individuals in town, and signed by persons in the country, who appeared not to be aware of their nature. He felt it his duty, to move that this petition be rejected. It was impossible for the House to receive petitions containing such gross insults to its authority, and which he believed did not contain the real opinions of the people, but merely of those who drew them up.Lord Castlereagh
 said, he rose merely to observe upon what had fallen from the worthy alderman, as to the sentiments expressed by his constituents with respect to their representatives. The worthy alderman said, that all the members of the city were deemed unworthy of the confidence of their constituents. With the greatest respect for the worthy alderman, he must however beg leave to contradict that assertion. He was sure, if the worthy alderman recollected himself, he would not say that the four members for the city were unworthy of confidence. He might affirm that himself, and two others, had forfeited that confidence; but he would surely add, that there was one, who would not have been declared unworthy of it, if he had been capable of attending the meeting of the common hall.Mr. Ponsonby
l.248 said, he must leave it to
l.248Mr. Calvert
252 was astonished that objections were taken to petitions without specifying the words objected to. The principal objection to this petition was its being manufactured in London, and sent to the country. It however was rather singular, that ministers never made similar objections when the petitions were in their favour; a pretty good instance of which was seen in the petition lately handed about by the merchants, bankers, and traders of London, and which without, doubt was manufactured in a corner. It was well known, that at all public meetings, petitions and resolutions were always' prepared before hand, in consequence of its being understood, that the general principles on which such meetings were convened were agreed on. The people now felt their grievances, and it was, therefore, not prudent to check them on a mere criticism of words. He saw no words in the present petition which could
252Sir F. Burdett
273272271270269268l.l.l.l.l.,267266l.l.265§l.l.l.l.l.264l.l.l.prima faciel.,263l.l.l.l.£.4,045,000
£.4,045,000223,000Ordnance
223,000Ordnance1,271,000Navy
1,271,000Navy2,551,000Army
2,551,000Army
£.4,045,000
£.4,045,000223,000Ordnance
223,000Ordnance1,271,000Navy
1,271,000Navy2,551,000Army
2,551,000Armyl.l.l.l.l.£.1,070.000
£.1,070.000500,000Navy
500,000Navy
£.1,070.000
£.1,070.000500,000Navy
500,000Navy26250,000Ordnance
50,000Ordnance300,000Extraordinaries
300,000Extraordinaries220,000Army
220,000Army
50,000Ordnance
50,000Ordnance300,000Extraordinaries
300,000Extraordinaries220,000Army
220,000Armyl.l.l.l.l.l.£.18,373,000Gross total of charge
£.18,373,000Gross total of charge1,500,000Miscellaneous
1,500,000Miscellaneous
£.18,373,000Gross total of charge
£.18,373,000Gross total of charge1,500,000Miscellaneous
1,500,000Miscellaneous2616,397,090Navy
6,397,090Navy1,246,000Ordnance
1,246,000Ordnance1,300,000Extraordinaries
1,300,000Extraordinaries880,000Commissariat and Barracks
880,000Commissariat and Barracks£.7,050,000Army
£.7,050,000Army
6,397,090Navy
6,397,090Navy1,246,000Ordnance
1,246,000Ordnance1,300,000Extraordinaries
1,300,000Extraordinaries880,000Commissariat and Barracks
880,000Commissariat and Barracks£.7,050,000Army
£.7,050,000Army£.6,501,000Total Reduction
£.6,501,000Total Reduction1,000,000Miscellaneous
1,000,000Miscellaneous3,717,000Navy
3,717,000Navy450,000Ordnance
450,000Ordnance£.1,334,000Army
£.1,334,000Army
£.6,501,000Total Reduction
£.6,501,000Total Reduction1,000,000Miscellaneous
1,000,000Miscellaneous3,717,000Navy
3,717,000Navy450,000Ordnance
450,000Ordnance£.1,334,000Army
£.1,334,000Armyl.l.;l.l.l.l.l.;l.260l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.259l.l.l.l.l.258257256255254253 observed, that in calling the attention of the House to that part of the Prince Regent's speech which they had just heard read, and to the subject to which the passage in question related, he was confident that every member would feel, that the attention of the House had never been called to a subject in which the vital interests of the country were more deeply involved. It had been the misfortune of those who had for many years past sat as representatives in parliament, to have had that duty to perform in times in which the intervals of peace had been so short, that the whole scope of public measures and expenditure had been calculated upon and governed by a war policy. Notwithstanding, how-ever, the burthens which they were under the necessity of imposing on the nation, and the many hardships and privations to
273272271270269268l.l.l.l.l.,267266l.l.265§l.l.l.l.l.264l.l.l.prima faciel.,263l.l.l.l.£.4,045,000
£.4,045,000223,000Ordnance
223,000Ordnance1,271,000Navy
1,271,000Navy2,551,000Army
2,551,000Army
£.4,045,000
£.4,045,000223,000Ordnance
223,000Ordnance1,271,000Navy
1,271,000Navy2,551,000Army
2,551,000Armyl.l.l.l.l.£.1,070.000
£.1,070.000500,000Navy
500,000Navy
£.1,070.000
£.1,070.000500,000Navy
500,000Navy26250,000Ordnance
50,000Ordnance300,000Extraordinaries
300,000Extraordinaries220,000Army
220,000Army
50,000Ordnance
50,000Ordnance300,000Extraordinaries
300,000Extraordinaries220,000Army
220,000Armyl.l.l.l.l.l.£.18,373,000Gross total of charge
£.18,373,000Gross total of charge1,500,000Miscellaneous
1,500,000Miscellaneous
£.18,373,000Gross total of charge
£.18,373,000Gross total of charge1,500,000Miscellaneous
1,500,000Miscellaneous2616,397,090Navy
6,397,090Navy1,246,000Ordnance
1,246,000Ordnance1,300,000Extraordinaries
1,300,000Extraordinaries880,000Commissariat and Barracks
880,000Commissariat and Barracks£.7,050,000Army
£.7,050,000Army
6,397,090Navy
6,397,090Navy1,246,000Ordnance
1,246,000Ordnance1,300,000Extraordinaries
1,300,000Extraordinaries880,000Commissariat and Barracks
880,000Commissariat and Barracks£.7,050,000Army
£.7,050,000Army£.6,501,000Total Reduction
£.6,501,000Total Reduction1,000,000Miscellaneous
1,000,000Miscellaneous3,717,000Navy
3,717,000Navy450,000Ordnance
450,000Ordnance£.1,334,000Army
£.1,334,000Army
£.6,501,000Total Reduction
£.6,501,000Total Reduction1,000,000Miscellaneous
1,000,000Miscellaneous3,717,000Navy
3,717,000Navy450,000Ordnance
450,000Ordnance£.1,334,000Army
£.1,334,000Armyl.l.;l.l.l.l.l.;l.260l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.259l.l.l.l.l.258257256255254253Lord Castlereagh
284283282281280279278277276salus publica,275l.274l.;l.;l. said, it was impossible to follow the noble lord into the estimates which he had submitted to the House. Whenever he had an opportunity of forming a judgment on them, whether favourable or unfavourable, the noble lord might be assured he should state it with candour and temperance; for, after the speech of the noble lord, he should be inexcusable if he did not follow his good example. From what he could collect of the noble lord's statement, it confirmed the view of the subject, which he (Mr. T.) had the other night submitted to the House. The army, navy, ordnance, and miscellaneous services, according to the noble lord's estimate, amounted to 18,350,000284283282281280279278277276salus publica,275l.274l.;l.;l.Mr. Tierney
l.288l.,l.l.,l.,287l.l.286285** said, that the whole force of the argument of the right hon. gentleman who spoke last, was turned to convince the House, that instead of appointing one committee for the purposes which had been already stated, there ought to be different committees for the separate investigation of every branch of the public services, including one for the investigation of the colonial establishments. According to
l.288l.,l.l.,l.,287l.l.286285**The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was certainly convinced that it was highly desirable to keep up the sinking fund, under the meaning of its being a fund to provide for the extinction of public debt; but the hopes of the noble lord appeared to be confined only to making income square with expenditure. The right hon. gentleman (Mr. Tierney) had stated his opinion, that it would fall short. He (Mr. G.) wanted to know what could be applied this year to extinguish debt, excepting by borrowing money.Mr. Grenfell
 was ready to mention his opinion as to the probability of our being enabled, in the present year, to pay off any part of the debt, or as to the falling off of the revenue. His hopes were, that a considerable sum would be paid off in the course of this year, though not so much as in the last.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
289 expressed the fullest confi-
289Mr. Saville
bonâ fide asked, whether it was to be understood that the produce of the sinking fund would be applied bonâ fideMr. B. Shaw
 replied, that the produce of the sinking fund would be applied solely to the purpose for: which it was destined, conformably to the several acts of parliament with respect to that fund.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.290 said, the House were then engaged in a discussion which excited more anxiety and a deeper feeling in the mind of the public than had been done by any subject brought before their consideration for many years. The question this day was no other than this—whether his majesty's ministers, who had so long practised the utmost extravagance, contrary to the professions made by them, were at last to produce some measure of economy and retrenchment, which should answer the expectations of the country, and restore to them that confidence which they had forfeited? There was no man in the House who regretted more than himself the spirit of disaffection and turbulence which prevailed out of doors; but he was convinced that by nothing would that spirit of disaffection and turbulence be so much excited as by the measure of the noble lord if persevered in. With respect to the first part of the motion he had nothing at present to observe. It was to the second part of the noble lord's motion to which he wished more particularly to confine himself. Certainly, when they were about to inquire into what reductions ought to take place in the public expenditure, at a conjuncture such as the present, placemen and persons holding sinecure offices ought not to be on the committee. Certainly, the confidence of the country could be regained by no measure so effectually as by a motion for the appointment of a committee; but it must be a very different measure from that of the noble lord which would produce such an effect. The
l.290Mr. Brand
 said, that it would be necessary for the hon. gentleman, in the first, place, to move by way of amendment, that the second part of the motion of the noble lord should be omitted, and if that was agreed to, then the hon. gentleman might move that his amendment be substituted.The Speaker
 accordingly moved to leave out the words, "and also to consider what further measures may be adopted for the relief of the country from any part of the said expenditure, without detriment to the public interest."Mr. Brand
 wished to call the attention of the House to the nature of the amendment now proposed by the hon. member. By removing the last clause of the motion, it would then be merely a motion for a committee to inquire into the state of the income and expenditure of the country, and that part of it (certainly the most important), which instructed the committee to inquire into what reductions might be made, would be entirely removed. It appeared to him, that nothing could be more absurd than for the House to agree to such an amendment.Lord Castlereagh
297296l.295294293l.292 hoped the suggestion of the hon. gentleman under the gallery (Mr. Saville), coming from the quarter it did, would have due weight with the noble lord. If the noble lord was sincere in his professions of economy, and if he wished that this inquiry should be carried on in a work-manlike manner, the only one object which he ought to promote, was the appointment of such a committee as was likely to institute the most rigorous investigation. But the truth was, that this measure had been forced on the noble lord—one set of circumstances had turned up and another gone down; in plain English, he had consented to the present inquiry, because he could not resist it any longer. But it would be said, perhaps, what did they ask? In answer to this, he would say, here was a measure proposed with the view of investigation, which could not possibly lead to a sincere investigation—a measure, which under the mask of inquiry, would smother all inquiry—which would substitute for that House a committee to flounder about in the mazes of the public accounts, and to do what an accountant would be more likely to do successfully, namely, to find out what was the income and the expenditure of the country, and to strike a balance. And if he were to venture on another prediction, from the names proposed by the noble lord, he would, in common with his friends on the bench below, hazard a prophecy, which would not fail to be fulfilled any more than his last had been, that the very first proposition made in the committee by the noble lord, would be opposed by his right hon. friend, and put to the vote, and that that vote somehow or other would turn out to be favourable to the noble lord. He would hazard another prophecy—that the committee would then begin their labours with a vast and voluminous mass of accounts;
297296l.295294293l.292Mr. Brougham
301300299l.298 observed, that from the general tenor of the discussion, argued as it was in almost every point applicable to the immediate question, he had little expected that the House would have been overwhelmed by the line of argument pursued by the hon. and learned gentleman who last addressed it. He had not been so sanguine as to expect that the proposition of his noble friend would have obtained the general acceptation of every part of that House, but he must confess that his impression was, that the doubt would have been whether the establishments were not cut down lower than was consistent with the true interests of the country. He would, unchecked by the reception that the observation had met with, repeat advisedly, that the impression of that truth was so strong in the conviction of
301300299l.298Mr. Canning
302§, after the best consideration of the subject, could not give an entire approbation to the appointment of the committee. It would be unfair not to acknowledge, that the sacrifices which the Prince Regent had offered to make presented an example worthy of imitation by the ministers of the Crown. The appointment of a committee to inquire into the reductions possible in the civil and military establishments was highly expedient; but he was much afraid that no report could be made to the House in sufficient time to be useful for present purposes. His mind was pretty fully made up on this point, when he heard the noble lord say that it might sit one year, or two years, or perhaps three years. If that were the case, what benefit could be expected to result from its labours? Could it be even expected to last out its full time? Was there not one idea intimately associated with such a committee—namely, that the dissolution of parliament would put an end to its labours and its existence? If only the length of time were considered, that alone was a great objection to it. On a former occasion, on which the Speaker sat with so much ability, no report was made till a considerable time after the formation of the committee. His right hon. friend had admitted that if the committee were appointed to effect a diminution of the influence of the Crown, it would be improper that any official men should be comprehended in it. Now, in his opinion, the principle applied equally to the present case. When it was made a direct question? Whether or not certain offices should exist, did it not clearly affect the influence of the Crown? With respect to the influence of the Crown, he contended, in opposition to the right hon. gentleman who spoke last, that it had increased very considerably of late years. Perhaps the immediate influence of the Crown in parliament might be less than formerly, but when he considered the great increase of our establishments, military, naval, and fiscal, together with our vast colonial possessions, it was impossible not to see that the influence of the Crown was exceedingly augmented. It in fact met every man every where. He believed however, that the re-action was greater than the action;
302§Mr. Wilberforce
 observed, that an hon. member adverting to a report on the table, had stated, as a proof that economy was not attended to, that a sinecure had been preserved for him, because he had refused another office, the salary of which had been reduced.Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald
 said, he had alluded to a statement in the public prints, which sat forth, that the right hon. gentleman was to be remunerated by a place, the salary of which was equal to that originally intended for the vice-treasurership, which latter situation had been given to another person.Mr. Brand
 said, that, up to the present period, he had not, directly or indirectly, reason to suppose, from any person connected with his majesty's government, that the office was intended for him. On whatever principle he had thought proper to retire from the office he held under the Irish government, those who best knew him would say, that he had no right to be ashamed of his conduct on that occasion.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 thought, that the object of the committee could not be attained, unless official men, capable of entering into the details of expenditure, were attached to it; neither did he believe it would answer the end proposed, unless some of those who were in the habits of opposing ministers, and who were accustomed to investigate the expenses of the state, were also engaged in the examination. He was of opinion, that no imputations should be thrown out against an overture, fairly made, as this appeared to be. Therefore, he should give his vote for the proposition as originally made; and he would follow that up by a suggestion for reducing the official men on the committee to such a number as had heretofore been usual. At present he conceived, a greater proportion of official influence was sought to be attached to the committee, than was customary or proper.Sir T. Acland
305304 rose amidst loud calls for the question. He said it was not his intention to detain the House for more than two minutes, but on the present occasion he could not give a silent vote. He, for one, derived great satisfaction from the statements which had that night been made on the part of ministers, and he was of opinion that when they went forth to the people, they would diffuse very general satisfaction all over the country. He knew that in some cases it had been said "concession was the parent of demand," but he doubted not the House would know how to refuse with proper firmness what it would not become them to grant. Doing this, however, it would be their duty to take into consideration the burthens of the people, and to lighten them as much as they could with safety. Concessions like those which had been that night announced; would be very gratifying to the country, and he thought it behoved every one who had it in his power, to follow the example which had been set. For himself, he believed ministers to be sincere in their professions, and was convinced the plans sug-
305304Lord Lascelles
307l.l.306 said, that with the greatest personal respect for the hon. baronet, and the noble lord who had just spoken, he could not help stating that he did not understand their arguments; for they both condemned the formation of the committee, and yet declared their intention of voting for it. The question for the consideration of the House was, how they could best attain the object proposed? which was stated, on all sides, to be a matter of great anxiety both within and without the walls of parliament. The noble lord proposed a single committee to examine into the income and expenditure of the country; and the hon. member from Hertford suggested the propriety of appointing two committees, one to investigate the expenditure, and the other to examine the income. The point for decision then was, whether they should have two committees or one? The hon. baronet and the noble lord thought that the assistance of official men was necessary on the committee; and if the labours of the committee were confined, in the first instance, to the consideration of the national income, he should very much agree with them. But, with respect to a committee for the investigation of expenditure, the most improper members were those holding places under government. In the present state of distress and discontent, expedition in their proceedings was the surest way by which they could convince the people that they were intent on diminishing their burthens. He would, then, ask, which was more likely to arrive sooner at the termination of the projected inquiry, one or two committees? They all knew the attempts that were made to traduce public men, and to malign our most venerable institutions. Why, then, were not means taken to show the people that these were base calumnies, and to prove to them, that the legislator meant to lose no time, and to leave no effort untried, in order to reduce their burthens as much as possible? He was persuaded that the fate of the country was in the hands of that House; and to render it
307l.l.306Mr. Ponsonby
 professed himself as strong an advocate for economy, and as fully convinced as the hon. gentleman opposite, that much must be done, and be done speedily: he had expressed himself to that effect in the course of the last session, but the statement which had now been made by the noble lord was completely satisfactory to him.Mr. Gooch
 was surprised beyond measure at the hon. gentleman who had just sat down; he had called to recollection what had passed last session; he had expressed himself a friend to economy and to speedy reform and relief; and yet he was satisfied with the committee of the noble lord which might sit three years; this he deemed a speedy relief; he wished a reform in the offices of state, and he was satisfied with a committee containing seven placemen, who were thus to sit in judgment on themselves! He congratulated the constituents of the hon. gentleman; but he should be much surprised if they were satisfied with such tardy retrenchment and such ambiguous reform. He thought the proposal of a noble lord to support any member who proposed an amendment on the proceedings of the committee wholly inefficacious.Mr. Calcraft
 said, that he had been named by the present ministers a member of the civil list committee, but they refused the powers necessary to render it effective, and it was, in fact, a gross delusion upon the public. That he considered the present committee to be also a gross imposition, and that he would not put his foot into a committee so constituted, as by so doing he should be lending his aid to mislead and delude the public. That he was as hostile as any man to the factious and misguided part of the community, but that now was the time, when it became the imperative duty of all independent members and country gentlemen to come forward, and to support such measures as would conciliate and give satisfaction to the rational and moderate part of the community. He therefore declined to be a member.Sir John Sebright
 said, that the present committee had the powers which had been refused to the civil list committee.Lord Castlereagh
—I am aware of that, but I owe it to my country not to contribute to practise a gross and scandalous delusion upon the public.Sir John Sebright
 said, that his health would not allow of his regular attendance; but that even if that objection did not exist, he thought that the constitution of the committee was such, as not to merit the confidence of the country.Lord Morpeth
251—I do not rise, Sir, with any intention whatever to put off that important discussion, which is the more immediate business of this evening, nor do I mean in any respect to oppose what has just fallen from the noble lord. I cannot, however, help saying, that I decidedly differ from the opinion he has laid down respecting manufactured petitions, and I shall shortly state why I do so. No man can hold in more abhorrence than I do the idea of petitions being systematically drawn up, and dispatched for signatures to different parts of the country. I would with much greater pleasure hear the plain statements of the petitioners themselves, although expressed in vulgar language,
251Mr. Brougham
 said, he could relieve the hon. member from all doubt as to how the petition came into his possession, by stating that it was because himself and his brother representatives were not thought worthy of presenting it. The reason he had not been intrusted to present the petition was, that he would not pledge himself to support, without any consideration, a measure of such importance; he had been called on to present and support. But he had never been present when such a measure had been canvassed: whenever it should, he would give it his best consideration. Perhaps some little alterations might be desirable; and when the measure should be discussed, he should be ready to express an opinion; but his constituents would not be satisfied unless he would support the measure right or wrong, though it could not yet be agreed what measure should be adopted: nay, they had not agreed among themselves: two out of five parts had voted for annual parliaments, and the remaining three for triennial. He had thus shown the reason why the petition did not come by him, and he hoped the hon. gentleman who presented it was ready to support it right or wrong.Mr. Alderman Atkins
249 said, he certainly understood the worthy alderman to affirm that all his brethren were convicted of being unworthy to present the petition now before them. He rose, however, for the purpose of stating, that he entirely concurred in every thing expressed by the petitioners, not only in what related to economy and retrenchment, but in all that concerned a reform of that House. The time was now come when it would be no longer possible to delay the inquiry; and he trusted they would not only correct the abuses which existed, but, in a steady, temperate, and dignified manner, investigate the causes of those abuses. After what had been stated by a noble lord, it was too evident that seats might be obtained in that House, by money, by interest, or, indeed, by any means, but that of the fair, unbiassed, and unbought suffrages of the people. He was as little disposed as any individual to sanction those wild, foolish, and disgusting principles of reform which were promulgated by certain persons out of doors — principles (if they could be called so) which were founded upon the subversion of our constitution, upon the destruction of social order, and of all that was wise, permanent, and useful in our invaluable system of law and government. The disturbances occasioned by those men had at least been attended with one good consequence— they had developed the character of the instigators, and shown how few they were in numbers; and hence, from their absolute insignificance, it became more imperiously the duty of that House to inter-
249Mr. Lambton
 approved of that part of the petition which prayed for economy and reduction; but the reform required, appeared to him visionary. Every thing called for retrenchment, and he thought the magnanimity with which the people had endured the burthens of the late contest, entitled them to every relief which his majesty's ministers could give.Sir James Shaw
 said, he was sorry he had misrepresented the hon. member, and he was afraid it was owing to his eyes not being so good as they were [a laugh]. He had at least construed the speeches he had read of that hon. member in that way.Sir W. Curtis
247 said, he had made up-his mind upon the matter. He was not in
247Sir W. Curtis
 seeing the secretary for Ireland in his place, took that opportunity of moving for a return of the quantity of grain consumed by the distillers of Ireland since the last commencement of distillation, and also for an account of the quantity of grain exported from Ireland since the 1st of September last. He stated, that in consequence of the late rigorous season, the poor of Ireland were reduced to extreme distress for want of food; that the crop of potatoes, their usual means of subsistence, had in general been very deficient; and that as oats were the only substitute to which they could look, the consumption of them in distillation and their free exportation were attended with very injurious consequences. The subject therefore became one of vital importance, and the House should turn a vigilant and cautious eye to its results. He should be very unwilling on other occasions to interrupt the distillation from grain, as it afforded a great and beneficial assistance to the farmers; but, under existing circumstances, it was attended with dangerous consequences to the well-being of the people, and no partial considerations should stand in opposition to their means of existence. This principle of benevolence was more imperatively demanded from the House in respect to Ireland, as the poor of that country were not entitled, by law, to call for parochial assistance. The distresses of the lower classes in that country could look for consolation only to the sympathy of the higher, and it must be known to the House how very limited that source of relief had become, by the very general absence of the great landed proprietors of that country.309Mr.
309
310 expressed his willingness to afford every information in his power to the right hon. gentleman, but he feared that the returns must, from their nature, be extremely defective, and therefore unsatisfactory. It would, however, be seen from them, that the consumption of grain by distillation was far from being as great as was generally imagined; and he assured the right hon. gentleman, that after all the inquiries he was enabled to make into the state of the late harvest, he was deeply impressed with the impolicy of suspending the distillation from grain in Ireland. It should be remembered, that when, on a former occasion, it had been deemed expedient to suspend distillation in Ireland, the circumstances of the two countries were widely different from what they
310Mr. Peel
 rose to present a petition from the town and parish of Dysart, in Fifeshire, signed by 1,200 persons, praying for a reform in parliament. He remarked on the very great distress suffered by every class of the community, and could not avoid saying, that as ministers were well apprized of its existence, they had acted very injudiciously in introducing that mockery of a committee for inquiry, which could but ill come up to the distresses of the people. He avowed himself a firm friend to parliamentary reform, but protested against the wild doctrine of universal suffrage, which had appeared so very prevalent.Sir R. Fergusson
 presented a petition from Kilmarnock. He said, he was certain that no man in that House would assert that Scotland was represented. The gentlemen in that House from that part of the kingdom, might as well be said to represent New Holland as Scotland. It was true that the people might, under the severity of distress, mistake the real remedy, but that could be no argument why no remedy should be applied. The petition stated, that seats in the House of Commons were bought and sold like tickets for the opera.Mr. Bennet
311 expressed his satisfaction at hearing his hon. friend state that
311Mr. Brougham
 presented a petition from the burgesses and inhabitants of the town of Birmingham. It not only prayed for parliamentary reform, but complained of not being represented in parliament. It had been agreed to in a most numerous meeting, distinguished by the greatest order.Mr. Peter Moore
 presented the petition voted at the Spafields meeting on the 10th instant. Being totally unacquainted with any of the parties who signed the petition, and inimical as he was to some parts of its prayer, the noble lord professed his surprise that he was the member selected for presenting it, and could not account for its coming into his hands. As, however, the language in which it was couched was respectful, and as he was anxious that, in the present season of suffering and distress, no obstruction should be offered to the petitions of the people which made it known, he willingly undertook the duty of laying it before parliament. Parliamentary reform was only one of its prayers, and as it besides prayed for relief from the pressure of taxation, for retrenchment of expenditure, and an abolition of sinecures, he would have said a few words on the subject of economy, had he seen his majesty's ministers in their place; but as a note had been circulated, stating that they could not attend, he would for the present abstain.Lord Folkestone
313 presented a petition of the people of Hampshire, in general meeting assembled on Portsdown-hill. The meeting, the noble lord said, was numerously and respectably attended, notwithstanding the intimidation employed by the agents of government to prevent it, and the obstructions thrown in the way of a great attendance. Though there was a great assemblage, there was no disturbance: not only were the people quiet, as regarded others, but there appeared the utmost harmony and unanimity among themselves. Such, it would seem, was not what was wished for or expected; for, either from motives of prudence, or others not so defensible, the cavalry were called out, ball cartridges were dealt to them, the guns of the garrison were loaded, and the garrison itself wore the appearance of a besieged fortress. Whether the object of the authorities was to adopt precautionary measures to keep the peace, or an intimidating attitude to prevent the meeting, he could not guess; but he might say, that these measures for the former object were useless, however the latter might be attained to a certain extent. No riot, no commotion, no disturbance, no tendency to tumult or disorder was manifested. The business of the meeting
313Lord Cochrane
315314 presented a petition from the Journeymen Tailors of London, setting forth, "That the petitioners have never, at any former period, interfered with political concerns, but for years past have, by uniting together for mutual sup-
315314Lord Cochrane
 expressed his coincidence in the opinion of the disrespectful tenor of the petition, and contended that it ought not to be received.Lord Castlereagh
 presenting a petition for reform from the township of Quick, and at the same time animadverting with much warmth on what he characterised as the scandalous conduct of an hon. member, who had voted against receiving the last petition without having heard a word of its contents [Loud cries of Hear, hear!]. If any one circumstance more than another furnished one of the strongest arguments for parliamentary reform, it was this—that an hon. member should go to the question, and divide against the petition, without having heard it. He trusted the House would hear again of no such lamentable example of disregard to the prayers of the people, and of neglect of the chief duties of a member of parliament, "otherwise, I hope," said the noble lord, addressing himself to the Speaker, "it will be marked and reprobated by you, Sir." [Loud shouts of Hear, hear!]. He should wish indeed to call for a vote of the House in reprobation of such conduct; and if he found the motion not contrary to the rules of the House, he should certainly endeavour to call forth their sentiments upon it.Lord Cochrane
317 agreed with what had
317Sir F. Burdett
319318 resumed. Whether it was language which the House would or would not endure, he could not say: "but at any rate," addressing himself to the Speaker, "I may be permitted to add, that after what you yourself once said, as to what would be the feelings and language of our ancestors with regard to practices which had been proved to exist in the mode of procuring seats in that House—after a noble lord opposite had been himself detected in one most nefarious and disgraceful practice, that of bartering a public office for a seat in that House, we may surely be permitted to drop a little our pretensions to unsullied purity of character. Unless the people complain specifically of that abominable traffic in which the noble lord was detected, unless they may venture to complain in words as decent as the act itself was vile and indecent, I know not how the question of parliamentary reform can be brought under the consideration of the House or of the public. But now, it seems, the House were not to hear any thing like the truth; nothing but an adulatory sort of language was to be addressed to it; and if so, why was there not a new office created for the purpose of remodelling petitions, and clothing them in language that might render them acceptable to fastidious ears?" It appeared to him, from all he had lately observed, that great obstructions were thrown in the way of petitioning, both within and without those walls. He did not mean to dispute that magistrates were justified, when notice was given that a public meeting was about to
319318Sir F. Burdett
 said, that on the question being put, he felt it his duty, from the manner in which many other petitions had been worded, and from the opinion he entertained of the hon. member's judgment with whom he had divided, to vote against the petition, particularly as he was not aware it was his privilege to have the potion again read, to form a judgment thereupon. But as to the reflection cast on his conduct by either the noble lord or the hon. baronet, he was altogether indifferent to their praise or censure.Mr. Thornton
 complained pf the efforts just made to mislead the country as to the disposition of the House respecting the petitions of the people.Lord Castlereagh
 called the noble lord to order. He had no right to fix imputations of any kind on an individual within the walls of that House.Lord Cochrane
 was proceeding to explain that he was not out of order, when he was again called to order.Lord Castlereagh
 then proceeded to show, that the petition, the reception of which he had opposed, attributed to the House an unconstitutional use of its functions, when he was a third time called to order.Lord Castlereagh
320† then vindicated the right which he had to complain of the conduct of the hon. baronet, who would have conveyed a gross insult to the House himself, if the chair had not made him feel, in a dignified manner, the impropriety of his language. But this was not the first time that the hon. baronet had gone so far. He seemed to have come to atone for the sins which he had committed, by his non-appearance in another place, and by putting a studied insult upon the House, to redeem himself from the reproaches which had elsewhere been cast upon him. His attack was on the House, and not on so humble an individual as himself (lord C.) But the chair had made him feel the
320†Lord Castlereagh
 said, that he had voted for the reception of the last petition, because, though not approving of all its language, he did not conceive its general tenour to be more offensive than that of others which had passed without notice. But if he could suppose that such a vote involved him in any approbation of the opinions expressed by the hon. baronet, he should not have supported the petition. In opposition to the language of the hon. baronet, he did think that the general conduct of the House demanded the applause and not the reprobation of the people. He would venture to say, that there had been no general expression of opinion on the part of the people, which had not been listened to with due attention; and that therefore he acted properly in supporting, on every occasion, as far as lay in his power, the character of the House.Mr. Fremantle
 entirely coincided with the hon. and learned gentlemen respecting the proper manner in which the petition just read had been drawn up. He wished the House to be assured he was as anxious as any individual could be to preserve the right of petitioning, as one of the most valuable blessings of the constitution, and he was confident, if the people were left to draw up their petitions themselves, they would do it in the best and most respectful manner. It was the means made use of to delude them by imposing on them manufactured petitions that excited his disapprobation and disgust. It was an insult to an Englishman, to suppose him incapable of stating his own grievances in a plain respectful manner.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that as all the petitions which had been presented to the House on the subject of reform prayed for an abolition of sinecures, he begged to ask if the report in circulation was true, which stated, that a noble marquess, one of the greatest sinecurists in the country, had, in consideration of the almost unanimous feeling of the nation, and the general distress, surrendered his sinecure?General Fergusson
. answered, that the report was well founded; that the marquess Camden had resigned all the emoluments and profits of the office he held, and only retained the regulated salary of 2,500.Lord Castlereagh
 was exceedingly gratified with the intelligence now communicated to the House, and trusted in God that the example would be followed by others.General Fergusson
 The noble lord has been called to order by another noble lord. The noble lord must confine himself to answer that noble lord as to the point of order.The Speaker.
 If the noble lord wishes to explain on what grounds he conceives that he is not out of order, he has a right to be heard out.The Speaker.
 spoke to order. It was unparliamentary to say that this House was not the Commons House of Parliament. Such language was not to be endured from any gentleman.The Speaker
 thought, that as it was not intentionally disrespectful, and contained no direct or studied insult, it should be received.Lord A. Hamilton
324 could not abstain from expressing his pleasure at seeing this petition brought forward so satisfactorily by the noble lord. This was the proper way in which the complaints of the people should be treated. In fact, all that had passed at public, meetings showed that the people were still sound at heart; that they still looked up to that House as their constitutional safeguard, and the grand source from which they were to expect relief. With regard to the prayer of the present petition, it must be obvious, that to adopt any measures to check the use of machinery, was as impolitic as it would be impracticable; but it was surely very hard on the petitioners that any impediments should be thrown in their way so as to prevent them from bettering their situation by emigration, if they were so dis-
324Mr. Brougham
323322 said, he held in his hand a petition from a numerous body of people in Leeds, and the parts adjacent, who were cloth-dressers, and who complained that the introduction of machinery had thrown many of them out of employment. They prayed that some relief might be afforded them by the wisdom of parliament. He had explained to the petitioners themselves, that the question relative to machinery was a matter of deep consideration; nor did he flatter them that parliament could be able, considering the state of the woollen manufacture in other countries, to afford them any relief on this head. There was another prayer in the petition: these people entertained the impression, that if driven to emigrate to other countries, the existing laws threw obstructions in their way, as being manufacturers. The noble lord had told them, that considering the state of manufactures in other countries, neither could he give them much encouragement on this head: but at any rate their petition should be submitted to the consideration of parliament.323322Lord Lascelles
l.321 could not help availing himself of this opportunity to express his conviction, that unless that branch of taxation which immediately affected the necessaries of life were greatly diminished, or funded property made, as it ought in justice to be made, equally contributory to the poor rates, they could not long continue to be paid. Their payment was, however, intimately connected with the whole system of public credit, and the stock-holder might be assured with the
l.321Mr. Lockhart
 begged to have the passage in the petition, stating, that the House of Commons, instead of being a control for, had become a control on the people, read. He thought such language from petitioners highly disrespectful and objectionable.Mr. Lockhart
 likewise bore testimony to the enormous and almost intolerable burthen of the poor rates in Coventry. He was happy, however, not to have witnessed any symptoms of discontent, and confidently looked forward notwithstanding its present depression, to the speedy revival of trade and manufacturing industry in that populous city.Mr. Butterworth
 presented a petition from the city of Coventry, praying for a reform and a reduction of the public burthens. This petition had been agreed to at a very numerous meeting, at which the most perfect order and unanimity had prevailed. He regretted to state, that such had been the increase of the poor-rates in that town, and so severely was their pressure felt, that there was hardly a house in which a distress had not been levied for their collection.Mr. Peter Moore
 stated, that the petition did not come from a county meeting, but from one called by gentlemen principally resident in London. He read the advertisement alluded to by the noble lord; it was circulated by the acting magistrates in the vicinity of Portsdown, and admonished those who disapproved of the meeting, or those actuated solely by curiosity, not to attend, while it recommended to the meeting peace and good order.Mr. Chute
333 begged to say a few
333Lord Castlereagh
336335 rose to present a petition, most numerously signed by the inhabitants of Glasgow, praying for economy in the public expenditure, and reform in parliament. The petition had been sent to him accompanied with a letter, which contained an interesting account of the present distresses of that district, and to which the attention of the House would, he trusted, be directed. It appeared from that letter, that such were the distresses of the middling and lower classes of the community, that they were not able to support their children at school, and in consequence of this, two Lancasterian school-rooms, erected at a considerable expense, were now actually advertised for sale. The same was the wretched state of the other schools, parents finding it utterly impossible to pay for their children's education. When the desire of every Scotsman to have his children educated was known, the distress of that country might easily be imagined
336335Lord Cochrane
343342 confessed that the committee with which this bill had originated had begun, in his opinion, at the wrong end, when they suggested the enactment of new penalties. His own disposition had been in favour of taking into the consideration of the committee the whole system of the game laws, with a view of introducing some more general and efficient measure. When he suggested the propriety of legalizing the sale of game as a means of discouraging poaching, he had
343342Colonel Wood
 observed, that his hon. and learned friend's object was merely to repeal what appeared to him to be objectionable. That would not prevent the introduction of another bill by any gentleman who might think proper to bring it in; and, in his opinion, some law to protect the persons described by the hon. baronet who had last spoken, was highly desirable.Mr. Ponsonby
 thought that a motion for leave to bring in a bill to amend and not to repeal the present act, would be the preferable mode of proceeding. He was very desirous of suggesting this to the consideration of the hon. and learned gentleman, but as he was not now in the House, he would move to adjourn the debate on the subject until Friday next.Mr. Bankes
 in consequence of what had been thrown out, gave notice of his intention to move for leave to bring in a bill, empowering magistrates to grant retail licences, for the sale of game. This Power of selling game had, indeed, never been entirely taken away before the 28th of Geo. 2d. He had understood from some of the largest proprietors of game in the kingdom, that they would undertake to supply the public with game, and to undersell the poacher.Colonel Wood,
 said, the most unexceptionable course would be, first to repeal the existing act, and then to bring in a bill providing the necessary remedies.Mr. Ponsonby
 begged leave to assure the House, that in bringing forward the proposition last session he had used every effort to obviate the objections that were made to it. With this view, he had asked the advice of a number of legal friends; and, among the rest of his hon. and learned friend, whose absence from the House and the country, in consequence of ill-health, he was sure he was not singular in regretting, he meant the member for St. Mawes (Mr. Horner). Not satisfied with this, he had even presumed to introduce himself to the acquaintance of the hon. baronet opposite, and to put into his hands the draught of the bill, precisely as it now stood; and he certainly conceived, from the remarks of the hon. baronet, that it met with his approbation. There could be no doubt on the mind of any man, that some legislative provision of a similar nature was indispensable to the protection of those who would otherwise incur the greatest risks in the discharge of their duty.Mr. George Bankes
338 would only say one word, after what had been stated by his hon. and truly respected friend. He had certainly been much cheered by what his hon. friend had advanced, and confessed a ray of light had now dawned on the gloomy horison. He was rejoiced to be delivered from that state of despondency into which the speech of the noble secretary of state had thrown him, and which, he was confident, had produced similar effects on many
338Mr. Brougham
334 professed himself greatly disappointed at what had just fallen from the noble lord opposite. Whether it would be so felt by the House, or by the well-provided body of sinecurists for whose immediate consolation it was addressed, he would not undertake to determine. In common with others, he had felt the greatest satisfaction at the communication which had been made last night; but he did expect, that an example so nobly and manfully opened by his
334Mr. Brougham
 Then the House and the country are to understand that this office is a sinecure, and that government has filled up a sinecure.Mr. Brougham.
l.,331 declared, that in moving for the papers, he acted under no conviction of the truth of the charge which the right hon. gentleman had answered, nor did he impute to him any thing of the kind stated. He knew at the time he made the motion, that the charge was unfounded, and proceeded on a misconception. He therefore did not ground his desire of information on a belief of it, nor had he made any allusion to the right hon. gentleman. His object was different. At a late period of the session, two years ago; at a period when the House was generally thin, when there was no great desire to canvass proposed measures, when no important business was expected, and when, for that very reason, the most important
l.,331Mr. Brougham
 then asked, if the president, on whom the most important duties devolved, did not go out to Malta to examine one account, and whether he had not there died?Mr. Brougham
 concurred with his noble colleague in the account given of the petition and the petitioners. He held in his hand a letter stating the circumstances in which it was voted. It had not been handed about for signatures, but, with the exception of one individual, had been signed on the spot. The petitioners stated, that they knew the sentiments of the county members on the subject of parliamentary reform, but they nevertheless had such confidence in them that they would intrust them with their petition. The petition he described as most respectable in its character, and respectful to the House. Besides other grievances it complained of the burthen of poor-rates.Lord Lascelles
l.l.344 could not concur in the proposition for adjourning the debate; conceiving, as he did, that the whole system of the game laws was unjust and tyrannical. To make the punishment for poaching a moderate one, and to enable
l.l.344Mr. Curwen
346 expressed his anxiety to see the act very considerably amended. That could not effectively be done by any interpolations; but would best be accomplished by a repeal of the act, in the bill declaring which repeal there might be a clause severely to punish poachers for such proceedings as led to felony and murder. As to making game property, he should always oppose any attempt at a measure so visionary and impracticable. Where a large and continued extent of ground was possessed by one lord of the manor, it might be done: but where, as in most cases, a manor was interspersed with small freeholds, the only consequence of it would be to beget a system of trespass and ill neighbourhood in every parish, as well as eventually to cause the total destruction of the game itself—a circumstance that would be extremely injurious to the community, as the amusement of sporting frequently induced gentlemen to reside on their own estates rather than in large cities.
346Mr. Lockhart
 replied, that he had died at Malta, and he believed had gone out to audit one account.Mr. Lushington
 took the opportunity of stating, that when he was asked about the number of officers in the colonial audit department, and if the place of the president was filled up, he was not quite correct in his answer, when he said it was not filled up, as he had since understood that it was.Mr. Lushington
 having laid on the table an account of all warrants or other communications from the treasury to the auditors of public accounts during the three years, ending 1st January 1817, transferring the audit of any accounts from the said auditors to any other boards,Mr. Lushington
 as one of the committee that had brought in the act in question, thought it necessary to say, that at the time when it was introduced it was his opinion, that the severity of the game laws should be relaxed on the one hand, while it was increased on the other, and that game should be put on the same footing with other private property. And for the purpose of subjecting the invaders and destroyers of this species of property to the same punishment as those of any other kind, he thought it necessary, to give to magistrates the power, in certain cases, of sentencing offenders to transportation. The punishments imposed by former acts had been found quite ineffectual; and he had therefore, upon the whole view of the case, thought the act in question the best, under all the difficulties with which the evil which it went to remedy was surrounded. But he was not insensible to its defects, and therefore should not oppose the motion.Mr. Frankland Lewis,
330l. thought himself called upon to make a few observations with the intent of removing an imputation on his character which the present papers would sufficiently clear. He was not present when they were moved for, but he felt obliged to the hon. and learned gentleman who had done so, for the opportunity which he had thus given him of correcting a misstatement or misrepresentation that had gone abroad through the usual channels, affecting deeply his character. In that statement it was mentioned, that 50,000330l.Mr. Huskisson
 declared, that he could not see the connexion between the preamble of the act in question, which lamented the existence of illegal combinations of armed persons going out by night to commit acts of violence, and the provisions in the act to transport an individual who might snare a hare, or shoot a partridge. The punishments denounced in the act were not at all expedient for the protection of game, but were highly expedient for the protection of the gamekeepers, whose lives would otherwise be constantly placed in the greatest jeopardy. It was highly desirable that the present act should be repealed; but if parliament should repeal it, and make no provision for the protection of the persons whom he had described, they would, in his opinion, not do their duty.Mr. Huskisson
347 was of opinion that the existing law was unjust and severe. It subjected individuals to a severe penalty for an act, which it was contrary to the natural feeling of mankind to say was in itself a crime; and which men could be never brought to think a crime, merely because there were legislative provisions against it. He agreed with the hon. and learned mover, that that House ought to be very tender on this subject, interested as many members were upon it. Means might surely be adopted for preserving that which was unquestionably a suitable amusement for the gentlemen of the country, without such laws as those now existing. He strongly objected to game being put on the footing of other property. It was not, as in other cases where the insecurity of property rendered it necessary to pass very severe laws for its protection. To steal cloth from the tenter hooks of a bleachfield was a serious crime, with which to deprive an individual of his amusement could not be put on a level. The House were bound not to go beyond the strict limits which the case required. He could not help thinking that the preservation of game might be effected without so many invidious enactments. If game were criminally obtained, it must be criminal to allow it to be openly sold. If the selling were unlawful, the purchasing must be unlawful also. But it was not right to make up in severity for a defect of power, in cases of mere amusement; that was a principle which ought ever to be confined to crimes and offences of a high magnitude. No doubt, however, if it were enacted that licences might be granted, no person in a liberal situation of life would purchase in
347Mr. Wilberforce
l.l.l.,l.337 said, he was extremely anxious to say a few words after what had just fallen from the noble lord. He thought it was but proper, when the sinecure of marquess Camden was talked of, that the consideration on which that sinecure was given, should be attended to. No doubt whatever could exist, that rewards were necessary to be given to those who had held offices; as for example, he would say, that such an office as that of lord chancellor deserved to be rewarded. That office was certainly one of a most laborious nature, and was given to an individual whose eminent talents and practice at the bar had justly entitled him to public confidence. Such a man necessarily made many sacrifices of private interest when he was called to fill this high situation: which, be it remembered, was extremely different in its nature and tenure from the office of a judge, being partly connected with politics, and at all events an office only held during pleasure. Now, such an office, with such an uncertainty attending the time it might be held, certainly entitled the person who held it to some remuneration from the public, in consideration not only of the exertions lie made, and the services he had rendered to the public, but also of the great sacrifices he had made on entering the office. The late lord Camden, it was well known, had held the office of lord high chancellor, and surely he might say, that never was there any man more justly esteemed for his indefatigable zeal in the public service, for the prudence and activity with which he discharged all his public and private duties, as well as for his eminent legal attainments. None could be more revered than he was for excellency of character, and integrity of heart and life. He had in the early part of his life been honoured with the kind attentions of that amiable and much lamented nobleman, and could not avoid giving this humble
l.l.l.,l.337Mr. Wilberforce
 had no objection to the proposed repeal, provided some other measure were to be substituted for it. He hoped he should live to see game made private property; but at a time when arms were carried at night by persons in combination, and with an avowed resolution of opposing those who should attempt to defend their master's rights, some strong measure was absolutely necessary.Sir E. Knatchbull
 made some observations on the propriety of coupling the repeal with some other measure in lieu of the act repealed.Sir E. Knatchbull
345 observed, that the only legitimate end of punishment was the prevention of crime. The act in question had not this effect, because, from the severity of its provisions, it was only in cases of a very aggravated nature that indivi-
345Sir M. W. Ridley
 conceived some measure in lieu of the one proposed to be repealed as absolutely necessary.Sir Egerton Brydges
 said, he had no objection if any gentleman, better acquainted with the subject, should take it up, and bring in a bill providing other remedies in lieu of those in the act proposed to be repealed.Sir S. Romilly
341340339 rose, in pursuance of previous notice, to move for the repeal of an act which had been only seven months in existence, which had been hurried through the House at a very late period of the last session, amidst a multiplicity of other public bills, had been read a third time at one o'clock in the morning, then sent up to the Lords, where it equally passed without any remark, and finally received the royal assent at the very close of the session. It was an act of the most unjustifiable severity, upon the merits of which the deliberate sense of the House ought at least to have passed; though he believed that the great majority of the House did not even so much as know of its existence. The act to which he referred was on the subject of the game laws; and it put the illegal destruction of game on the same footing as any felony, by rendering the offence liable to the penalty of transportation for seven years. Nay, it did still more; for it made not merely the act, but the mere attempt to kill game by night, in an enclosed place, a felony, rendering the offender liable to transportation for seven years. The bill enacted, that if any person be found in an enclosed place by night, not merely with a gun, but with a net, or any other engine
341340339Sir Samuel Romilly
332 presented a petition from Dewsbury, in Yorkshire, praying for retrenchment and reform. The noble
332Lord Milton
349 brought in a bill for the better protection and encouragement of provident Institutions or Banks for Savings. It was read a first time, and on the question that it be read a second time to-morrow, the right hon. gentleman said, that the bill which he now brought in was precisely the same as that which was entertained last session, and went through that House, although it did not pass into an act. The objection raised against this bill was, that it was unnecessary, because it had not been solicited by those whom it was intended to protect; but the House would see, on a little reflection, that it was not very likely that application would be made to parliament by persons in that condition of life, the improvement of which was contemplated by this measure. Both the principle and the detail of such an institution were beyond the common ideas of persons engaged in daily and manual labour. In the year 1795, it would be recollected, that a bill passed both Houses of Parliament on the subject of Friendly Societies; at that time no application for relief or assistance was made by the parties immediately interested, though it must be remembered that the measure which then passed into a law was of the very highest benefit to the lower orders of society. Nor had
349Mr. Rose
 allowed that Mr. Lyon had not exercised a sound judgment in the affair, but denied that any other imputation whatever could rest upon him.Mr. W. Bootle
 censured Mr. Lyon's conduct as injudicious and improper. What was the duty of a constable under such circumstances? Had he considered the act a theft, he ought to have taken the thief and the property before a magistrate. Had he considered it a joke, he ought to have returned the property to its owners. The petitioner, however, did not say a single word of having returned, or of intending to return to the owners the petition which had been carried off. In fact, the very tone of his address to the House was censurable, for it was not a tone of contrition, as it ought to have been, but of justification exclusively.Mr. Wynn
 asked, whether or not the petition which had been run away with, had been given back to the owners?Sir F. Burdett
 replied, that he knew nothing further of the business than was comprehended in the statement made by the petitioner. The object of the petition was to show that he had no intention to deprive any of his majesty's subjects of any part of their privileges.Mr. W. Bootle
 presented a petition from Thomas Lyon the younger, residing at Warrington. It contained a justification of the conduct of those who had been charged by an hon. and learned member, the other night [see p. 211] with forcibly seizing a petition which had been agreed to be presented to the House of Commons praying for parliamentary reform, and in his opinion it was a complete answer to the accusation. Too much stress had been laid upon the fact of Thomas Lyon, the present petitioner, being the nephew of a magistrate. The petition, it would be observed on reading it, showed that the uncle of this young man had been attacked with a paralytic stroke, and for a considerable time past had been unable to execute the active duties of his office.Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
354, not having been present when this subject was brought before the House the other evening, wished to say a few words upon it. He had thought it his duty to inquire into the circumstances of the transaction, and the character of the gentleman who had been implicated in it; and it was but due to that gentleman to state, that every thing which he had heard of his character was highly honourable to him. Whether or not, in the present instance, he had acted with propriety, he was rather inclined to doubt. Certainly he had had nothing to do with the transaction until he heard the cry of "stop thief!" He then ran into the street, and seeing in custody a person whom he knew to be a perfectly honest and industrious man, he took him into the house, when the man immediately told him what had happened, and gave the petition into his hands. So far all was right; but he did not think Mr. Lyon justified in withholding the petition from those from whom it had been taken, and retaining it in his possession. As those persons had followed the party into the room, it would appear that the natural course for Mr. Lyon to have taken was to return the petition to them immediately. This, however, he omitted to do. He concurred with his hon. and learned friend, that the petition became of no value unless re-
354Lord Stanley
348 said, he held in his
348Lord Stanley
 said, that with respect to the stress said to be laid upon the circumstance of the young man being the nephew of a magistrate, he wished to remind the House that this was not the point particularly remarked upon: but the circumstance which had astonished him was, that this young man had taken the petition to the house of a magistrate, at which house it was demanded in vain. He was aware that Mr. T. Lyon the elder was afflicted with a lamentable distemper, but the House would do him the justice to remember, that he had expressly delayed to take any steps upon the subject until time should have been allowed for an answer to the accusation. A petition to this effect had now been presented; and it remained for the House to judge, whether it was or was not a sufficient reply to the charge which had been brought against him.Mr. Brougham
 said, he thought that the attack which had been made by the petitioner upon those who in the mildest way had brought forward the accusation was entirely unjustifiable. He trusted the House would observe the great nicety of the petitioner's conscience, who had been afraid to give the petition back to its right owners, though they had made a formal demand of it. The petitioner must have been well aware that the petition which he withheld was property of that description, that unless it were given back immediately, it would be of very little value to its former possessors. He left it to the judgment of the House, whether the conduct of the hon. members who brought the complaint before the House, deserved the epithets contained in the petition, of "base, malevolent, unfounded, and false."Mr. Brougham
 observed, that he still retained his objections to the proposed Bill. He therefore expressed a hope that the second reading would be postponed until the week after next. The House would recollect that the most obnoxious clause, that respecting paupers, had in the last session been disapproved, but that in a subsequent stage, the right hon. gentleman with his friends contrived to get it reinserted.Mr. Calcraft
357 allowed the magnitude of the evil which had been described by the hon. and learned gentleman. He doubted, however, whether it was advisable to make the decisions of the court of King's-bench legal, when only three of the judges were sitting. Our ancestors had felt the importance and value of ordaining that there should be four judges in every one of the three courts of law. The hon. and learned gentleman, however, proposed to ratify, by a legislative provision, the absence of one judge. Cases, however, might frequently arise, in which the presence of four judges would be of great consequence
357Mr. Lockhart
356in banco,A priori,355 rose, in consequence of his notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill to facilitate the progress of business in the court of King's-bench, in Westminster-hall. The present means of transacting the particular business to which his motion referred, were wholly insufficient. Redress of the evil could be obtained only by adopting one of two courses: either by an internal arrangement in the court itself, or by a different distribution of the business. The sort of business transacted in the court
356in banco,A priori,355Mr. Casberd
 observed, that there appeared to be a determination on the part of the petitioner to continue that detention which, whether a joke or otherwise, was, in the first instance, an unwarrantable act.Sir C. Monck
 expressed a wish that Ireland, in the purview of the proposed bill, should be disjoined from England. All the clauses relative to the poor rates could have no application to Ireland, while there were many points necessary for that part of the kingdom that would not apply here. Under these circumstances, friendly as he was to the principle, he wished to be understood, as giving notice of his intention to move for leave to bring in a Bill for the protection of Provident Institutions in Ireland.Sir John Newport
 could not acquiesce in the conclusion drawn by the right hon. gentleman, respecting the diminution of the poor's-rate by the bill. In his judgment, its immediate operation would go to place on those rates persons otherwise not entitled.Lord Milton
359 presented a petition from Dumbarton, complaining of the magnitude of taxation, the extravagant military establishments, and praying for a radical reform in the representation of the people. The noble lord took the opportunity of suggesting, that equal facility should be allowed to the transmission by the post of the petitions of the people as were to the communications of that most
359Lord Cochrane
 jun. in answer to what had fallen from the noble lord, begged to say, that on a former session he had received petitions, to be laid before that House, for the postage of which he had paid three or four pounds, but which was subsequently returned on the application of the petitioners.Mr. C. Grant,
362 in answer to those who maintained that universal suffrage was an impracticable proposition, observed, that in many of the petitions the means were pointed out, namely by taking the lists already prepared for the calling out of the militia whenever it might be required. Whenever the subject came to be discussed, he should take as his guide the wisdom of the people, who would not be influenced in their judgment as members of that House were. The people judged coolly [a laugh, and Hear, hear!]. He repeated it—the people judged coolly; and he sincerely believed that their opinions on every point were the best criterion of justice. He was very sorry that that House in its decisions too frequently differed from the opinions of the people. Whether it would be proper to confine the sufferage to householders, or to extend it to all males of twenty-one years of age, was a fair subject of discussion; but no member had a right to impute delusion to so large a body of the people, as that by which the latter proposition was maintained. He apprehended that the delusion proceeded from a different quarter, and was generated by different views. With respect to a change in the duration of parliaments, he was of opinion that the only effect of making parliaments triennial, would be to diminish the price at which seats were sold. In his opinion, parliaments ought to be annual, and all householders ought to have the elective franchise. Without these two things there would be no safety for the people. The members of that House would again be thrown into the hands of ministers, and be again made the objects of that shameful traffic, of the existence of which, but too full proof had been afforded. He would not delay the House any longer, but as an hon. and learned gentleman had cast imputations so serious on so large a mass of individuals, stating, that they were deluded and misled, he had felt it his duty to say thus much. He confessed, that he felt it difficult to conceive the frame of mind which could enable a member of that House to stand up, and, on his single opinion, or on that of a small circle of his friends, dare to throw out such imputations en so large a body of the people,
362Lord Cochrane,
364 remarked, that the noble lord had asked how any hon. member could dare to set up his opinion against that of the great body of the people. When he saw what was alleged in the numerous petitions which had been presented to that House on the subject of reform— when he saw in them statements, of the falsehood of which he was persuaded that the persons by whom the petitions had been framed were perfectly aware—it was impossible not to feel and to declare that the people had been most grossly deluded. When it was stated that annual parliaments and universal suffrage were the birth-right of the people, who but must know that such a statement had originated in the most shameful delusion? The noble lord, as a kind of apology for this misrepresentation, had said, that before the elective franchise was limited to freeholders of forty shillings a year, there must have been some other description of suffrage, and that that suffrage might have been universal. To him (Mr. Wynn) it appeared more likely, that instead of a universal, it had been a very limited suffrage, confined to freeholders, who, it was well known before the subdivision of large districts, were comparatively few in number. Then there was the assertion in the petitions, that the abominable parliament (as it was termed) of 1694 had extended the duration of parliaments to three years. He did not believe there was a child in the country, capable of reading the history of England by way of question and answer, who
364Mr. Wynn
368 adverting to the comments made by the hon. and learned gentleman on the petitions which had been sent down from the metropolis for the adoption of the people, said, that knowing, as he did, the honourable character of the individual in whom these petitions originated, he was sure that no attempt would ever be made, on that individual's part to deceive the people. There was not a worthier man existing than the gentleman to whom he alluded, major Cartwright, and he was perfectly certain that the sentiments which that gentleman expressed were sincere, and came from the bottom of his soul. With respect to himself, he should never resent personal allusions of any kind made to him in that House. They would fall as a blunt arrow, or as the stone which was thrown the other day, but never found. But this, in justice to himself, he would say, that he was not in habits of intimacy with any man base enough to entertain a desire to overthrow any part of our establishments. As to the petitions which he had presented, he felt it his dut3' to receive any person who might choose to call upon him on parliamentary business, and if a petition couched in proper terms, were put into his hands, he felt it his duty to present it to that House, without, however, considering that he was in any way responsible for the opinions which the petition might contain. The universal voice of the people cried for reform. He trusted that the House would not set up their opinion against that of the whole country besides. He should most sincerely deplore the day, should it ever arrive, on which by the vote of that
368Lord Cochrane
 believed that such petitions must have had reference to a measure actually before the House, and not simply in contemplation.The Speaker
—I find that there is a clause in an act of parliament, passed two years since, and where I should never have thought of looking for it, the act relating to East India shipping, by which ship-letters and other communications to members of parliament, of a weight not exceeding six ounces, pass free of postage.The Speaker
360 said, that he held in his hand a petition from the inhabitants of Aid-gate, in the city of London. The petitioners set forth that the grievances of which they complain have sprung from the present administration of the country, and that the distresses now so generally afflicting every class of his majesty's subjects are to that source mainly attributable. They allege that these calamities could never have assumed so aggravated a character, but from the gross neglect of that House in checking the ruinous expense of the executive government. They pray that the system of exorbitant expenditure may be speedily diminished, and as a more permanent remedy, they call upon that House to correct its corruption. They state no specific plan of parliamentary reform, but require that the people should obtain their just rights, and fair weight in the constitution of parliament. There existed but one opinion throughout the country, in
360Mr. Brougham
 observed, that the hardship required some consideration. He had himself received at various times petitions and other papers, transmitted to him as a member of parliament, for which he had paid on some occasions as much as five and six pounds, and which was never returned.Mr. Brougham
367366†365 spoke to the following effect:—Sir, after the very pointed manner in which my conduct has been alluded to by the noble lord, who has, in a very peculiar way, held up to public reprobation any hon. gentleman here who "dares" (for that was the word) put his opinion on any subject of great national interest in competition with the opinion of fifteen thousand, or of fifteen hundred thousand people out of doors, and who not only does that, but who slanders the people of England by intimating that they labour under a gross delusion, and by accusing their leaders of dishonest practices; I think the House will pardon me if I trouble it with a few words in my own
367366†365Mr. Brougham
363 said, he could not refrain from observing that a pretty striking proof of the wisdom and coolness of the people was exhibited in the way in which the Hampshire petition had been got up, that was presented to the House by the noble lord on Tuesday. The noble lord was certainly an admirable channel for such petitioners. He appeared in that House every night like a busy trader, with his commodities under his arm. Not satisfied with that, he must hurry down into the country, watch petitions as they came into existence, and then return and serve them up hot and hot to parliament. The noble lord said that the Hampshire petition was signed by 20,000 persons. It had however been read, approved, and signed, all in an hour. So much for the coolness of the people! So much for the admirable example which they afforded to parliament! He was decidedly of opinion that the doors of that House ought to be widely thrown open to petitions, and that the language in which they were couched ought not to be hypercritically censured; but the dignity of the House required that they should at least be in a strain such as might be tolerated; for the House ought never to forget that the maintenance of proper respect for themselves was a duty which they owed to the people at large, whose constitutional representatives they were, until it was proved otherwise. In none of the petitions was to be found any clause of exemption in favour of any individual. The whole House was denounced as corrupt, and yet it was a curious fact, that the very members who had thought proper to avow their own corruption, were the persons chosen by the people as the channels through which to express their wish for reform! The noble lord had made a gratuitous avowal that to the bellman of Honiton that House was originally indebted for the accession of his talents. Another hon. member, who had been selected for the purpose of presenting a petition for reform, was a very innocent and unsuspicious individual, who had acknowledged his participation in the practices which that petition so strongly reprobated. That hon. member declared, that he was one of six persons who had the right of presentation to a borough; and though he drew in the same train, like one of six gray horses in the lord mayor's coach, he was a mere sleeping partner, and received none
363Mr. Warre
361 declared, that although he differed entirely in opinion from the great mass of the petitioners who had lately approached that House—though he was persuaded that they attributed their grievances to a wrong cause—though he was convinced that they looked for benefit to that which would only aggravate the evils they endured,—yet, seeing that these sentiments were so generally entertained, and knowing that the petitioners were suffering the severest pressure, he would not take advantage of any inaccurracy or indiscretion in the language of the petitions, but understand them in the most fair and liberal construction; and dismissing from his
361Mr. Lamb
 as a professed friend to rational and deliberate reform, protested against the doctrine maintained that evening by the noble lord—doctrine calculated to plunge the people into the utmost ruin and distress. Nothing could be so contrary to the best interests and to the happiness of the people, as the notion of annual parliaments. Was it to be imagined that with annual parliaments the common affairs of the state could be duly canvassed, and the measures which it might be proper to adopt carried into effect? It was so absurd and visionary a project that he would not waste the time of the House by saying a single word further on the subject; but having heard the speech of the noble lord that night, he could not refrain from embracing the earliest opportunity of entering his determined protest against opinions so mischievous.Sir. M. W. Ridley,
l.l.358 rose for the purpose of moving for leave to bring in a bill to extend the protection of parliament to the establishment of provident institutions for saving in Ireland. The House had already assented to the general principle of such establishments, by sanctioning, in the last session, a proposition of a right hon. gentleman for their encouragement in Great Britain; it therefore only remained for him to show why a separate bill should be passed for Ireland, to secure the sanction of the House to the present measure. A law of this nature for England must necessarily be encumbered with many provisions and clauses of detail, in consequence of the very complicated system^ of poor-laws existing in this country, all of which would be unnecessary in Ireland, and it would be attended with great confusion, to distinguish in the same bill what parts of it should operate in the one country, and what in the other; he was therefore anxious that such an encumbrance of detail should not endanger the advantages that Ireland was likely to derive from the enactment of such a measure. He stated that there existed a law on the Irish Statute Book, preventing bankers from paying interest for money lodged in their hands. This restriction should be taken off, as far as the money of these saving institutions was concerned. For the purpose also of affording every possible means of security to the depositors in the saving institutions, it was intended to provide in
l.l.358Sir John Newport
 called the attention of the House to the subject of this petition, which, though only signed by one individual, expressed the sentiments of many benevolent persons. On the important subject of inflicting the punishment of death, it prayed the House to consider, whether it might not in all cases except murder, be commuted for imprisonment. Although we boasted that we were the most civilized people in Europe, our criminal code was the most severe of all. Neither in America nor France was death ever inflicted, except for the crime of murder. In the latter country, the practice had been, for the last twenty years, to send delinquents to penitentiary houses, where their morals were reformed, and they came out valuable members of society. It was seldom, he feared, that persons committed for offences in this country came out of prison with any improvement whatever in their moral sentiments. As the public attention was now drawn to the general subject of this petition, he trusted that it would speedily fall under the consideration of the House.Mr. Bennet
369 rose for the purpose of presenting a petition from the inhabitants of Narborough, in Leicestershire, praying for annual parliaments and universal suffrage, doctrines which, he had no doubt, would excite the indignation of an hon. and learned gentleman, who on a recent occasion had condemned them as chimerical and absurd. That they were chimerical and absurd, as had been stated, was mere matter of opinion, but when he heard an hon. member of that House designate those who supported these doctrines as included in two classes, the misleading and the misled, the designing and
369Lord Cochrane
 said, that had the House heard his sentence finished, they might have thought otherwise.Lord Cochrane
372371370 proceeded. Such had been the opinion of the learned judge whom he had thought proper to quote. That such opinions as those of the petitioners might be entertained without their having any intention to subvert the constitution or established forms of the country certainly required no demonstration, and it was equally clear they might be entertained without any imputation being thrown on individuals. He had risen the other night in consequence of a pointed requisition made by an hon. and learned gentleman, that if any member thought the visionary theories of universal suffrage and annual parliaments could be maintained, he should show that they could. That requisition he felt himself bound to comply with, and had complied with, although he was then conscious to himself, and still was so, that he could not compete with the hon. and learned gentleman in words. He had then felt it necessary to state, that to the wisdom of the people he was more disposed to trust than to the wisdom of the House, persuaded that the people on every occasion decided coolly; that they decided wisely and brightly [[Hear, hear! and a laugh. He had also no hesitation in saying, that he was decidedly of opi-
372371370Lord Cochrane
377376 trusted that few persons in the House would be found disposed to agree in opinion with the hon. gentleman who had just sat down. He begged leave to say, that it was a very weak argument to contend, that because any measure might be bad if pushed to extremity, it was therefore not desirable to adopt it as far as it would be wise to do so. He hoped that this kind of reasoning would not have the effect of inducing the House to refuse to consider the proposal for the introduction of so much reform as would remove them from the control of the executive government. Would it be justifiable in those who thought that all kinds of property should have its protection in that
377376Sir F. Burdett
380379 was not anxious to prolong the discussion, but some things had occurred in the course of it, on which he wished to say a few words. An hon. baronet had deprecated all differences of opinion among the friends of parliamentary reform; and indeed with good reason, for the poor reformers seemed really about
380379Mr. Canning
384 assured the House that had the hon. and learned gentleman in the observations made by him on a former occasion confined himself to the reprobation of his (lord C.'s) conduct, he would have been the last man to make the statement which he had that night made, and which he had felt himself called upon to make, because the hon. and learned gentleman's censures, instead of having been so confined, had been bestowed on the most honourable characters, and on almost the unanimous voice of the country, which the hon. and learned gentleman had maintained was divided into only two classes; the deceivers and the deceived. It was on that account that he had quoted the hon. and learned gentleman's former opinions, in order to show that he ought to have been less severe, and he was happy to observe the good effect of the step which he had taken in the altered tone of the hon. and learned gentleman. He was in the recollection of the House, that nothing personal had originated with him. He had merely stated, that triennial parliaments would only reduce, and not remove the existing corruption; and he had that evening quoted, in support of that statement, the hon. and learned gentleman's observation, that in the last year of every parliament, more benefit accrued to the public than during all the preceding years of its existence. It was his firm conviction, that unless the House discussed the subject with the deliberation which its importance demanded; unless every part of it should be fully and
384Lord Cochrane
 in explanation, denied any intention of intimidation. He was only anxious that the House might fully consider the important subject that would be brought before it.Lord Cochrane,
l.401sine qua nons.400 said, he would trouble the House with a very few observations. He had, in common with the House, felt great satisfaction at the numerous jokes and pleasantries which the right hon. gentleman had thrown over the subject; but at the same time he must say, that he had never before heard him labour so hard in argument. The right hon. gentleman had talked of the disgust which he felt at the conduct of the board of admiralty. He (the noble lord) would retort the expression, and say, that he himself felt the most unmeasured disgust, and he was persuaded that it was a feeling in which the respectable part of the community out of doors participated, to see that spirit of detraction abroad against all public men; above all, to see that readiness in hon. gentlemen to appeal to the unsound part of the people, in order to depreciate and degrade the characters of public men. Of late a system had prevailed, not merely of attack upon the measures of ministers, but of endeavouring to extract or infer from their conduct something which might impeach the purity and honour of their intentions. How had the right hon. gentleman argued the present question? Nothing could be
l.401sine qua nons.400Lord Castlereagh
402 conceived that the present was not merely a question of war or peace, but whether the war was one of that sort which came within the true intent and meaning of the order in council, and which fair and honourable men could agree to have been contemplated by
402The Hon. Mr. Lamb
405 said, that when he animadverted last session on the delay which had taken place on the part of the Crown in the case of individuals under sentence of death, he conceived from the expression which the House gave to their feelings on that occasion, a considerable time would elapse before an opportunity should again occur which might render it necessary to call the attention of the House to the subject. Having how-
405Mr. Bennet
406 said, that the hon. member who had made this motion, must forgive him if he said, that he could not believe that he was serious in his desire of obtaining the information for which he
406Lord Castlereagh
407 said, he did. not rise to defend the noble lord alluded to, for that was unnecessary, but because he was enabled to state some particulars to the House which might throw light on the subject. If the hon. gentleman had drawn his information from persons capable of informing him correctly, he would have found how the delay had arisen. Wiry, the number of persons waiting for the recorder's report accounted at once for
407The Attorney General
408 was not disposed to make any objection to the explanation of the attorney-general, but merely to say in the absence of his hon. and learned friend (Sir S. Romilly) who had frequently, but unfortunately without success, submitted
408Mr. Abercrombie
 said, he did not impute want of ability, honesty, integrity, propriety, acuteness of decision, or intelligence in any of the decisions of the lord Chancellor. He had only complained of delay. As to the number of persons under sentence of death, that might be a reason why the last cases were not reported, but it could be no reason why the first were not laid before the Prince Regent. If there was any inconvenience attending the execution of the law on this subject, it was high time that that inconvenience should be remedied—it was high time that the punishment should follow the offence. What had made him so eager to bring the subject forward that night without notice was, that he could not have an opportunity to-morrow, and the sessions began on Wednesday. But it was not merely the number of persons under sentence of death which called for notice;—at this present moment there were more than 200 persons in Newgate, under sentence of transportation. Wherever he had met the government in the execution of the law, he had constantly met delay. He would appeal to the members for London, whether they had not frequently complained on this subject to the government, without getting any redress? He assured the noble lord, that he should neither be deterred by his compliments nor his censure from doing what he thought the public interest demanded of him.Mr. Bennet
 said, it had not been in the contemplation of his majesty's government to propose any compulsory measure, but to leave it to persons in office to make what contribution they might think proper. He certainly never entertained the idea of fixing any rate of proportion for the regulation of such contributions.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was confident he never meant to state that any rate would be proposed, and did not think he had said any thing to justify such a conclusion. What he believed he had stated was, that ministers wished to place themselves, by their own voluntary act, under the same burthens from which they had been relieved by the repeal of the income tax. With respect to persons in office, there was no compulsory measure whatever in view.Lord Castlereagh
 asked, whether it was intended to propose any reduction in the Windsor establishment? He would not have noticed this delicate subject, were it not notorious that many of the expenses of that establishment were, to say the least of them, unnecessary, and could not be considered as any mark of respect to the illustrious personage who was the object of them. Indeed, many of these expenses, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, appeared to partake more of the nature of mockery than respect.Mr. Gordon
 stated, that motives of delicacy withheld him from answering the hon. gentleman's question, or entering into any explanation on the subject to which he had alluded.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 again stated, that the contribution of every individual would be voluntary, and that from the lower offices none would be raised.Lord Castlereagh
—I am sorry to say the noble lord's sentence is already too complete.The Speaker
 apprehended such language was not parliamentary, and could not by any means be permitted in that House.The Speaker
 adverting to the observations which had been made by Mr. Ward, thought that the hon. gentleman might have abated somewhat of the severity of his observations, and might have expressed himself in terms of less decided hostility against all descriptions of parliamentary reform whatever, from the recollection of his having formerly supported, the other side of the House, and sat by the side of Mr. Fox and other distinguished individuals, who had maintained the cause of rational reform. When the subject should be regularly brought before the House, and when he should be called on, in common with every other member of the House, to give his opinion upon it, he should state the reasons which convinced him that reform to a certain extent was indispensable to the well-being of the country.Lord A. Hamilton,
 explained. All that he contended was, not that the hon. gentleman had actually supported parliamentary reform, but that the recollection of his former connexions should have prevented him from contending that all those who supported moderate reform had some ulterior object in view.Lord A. Hamilton
 said, he was as anxious as any one to see economy and retrenchment carried into effect, and trusted he had always been found on that side. Though, however, his private opinion respecting the policy of taking the war salary might be different from that of the hon. secretary, yet upon the question of his right to receive it, he could not support the motion of the noble lord.Mr. Barclay
 presented a petition from Thomas John Waters, praying the House to abolish capital punishments in all cases excepting murder.Mr. Holford
382381 said, that whatever construction of the legislature some persons might propose, whatever projects of unattainable advantage they might suggest, he would not lend himself to any of them, when a real and practical benefit was all that he wanted. He must declare that he conscientiously believed that, in the present constitution of the House of Commons, the interests of the people were not consulted to the extent to which they ought to be consulted. What particular remedy it might be advisable to apply, he
382381Mr. Tierney
l.s.l.s.l.l.,l. expressed himself satisfied with the intention which ministers seemed to avow, of keeping up a respectable naval force, and was particularly anxious that the marine corps should be attended to. In 1792, he observed the sum voted for seamen was 4l.s.l.s.l.l.,l.Mr. Tierney
l.399l.l.l.l.l.398397396 said, that in point of amount the matter before the House was very small, but that in point of principle it was of the utmost importance. It was calculated to create the greatest disgust, to see this additional salary demanded as a right, and conceded as such by the lords of the admiralty.—Most undoubtedly they possessed a discretionary power, which they ought to have exercised. The lords of the admiralty had evidently referred only to the order in council, issued on the 15th January, 1800, and had, upon that document, come to the conclusion that the honourable secretary was intitled to his war salary, consistently with its letter and spirit. No notice whatever was taken by them, of any other order in council. But what he contended for was, that the admiralty lords ought to have, and must have, a
l.399l.l.l.l.l.398397396Mr. Tierney
 certainly understood, from the speech made by the noble lord a few days ago, that it was intended to levy a kind of tax on persons in office. He not only thought that an assessment was to be imposed, but that its proportion was determined on at the pound.Mr. Brougham
 was convinced that, whether the contribution was to be voluntary or not, every man would regret to see it fall heavily on persons holding inferior offices, who were in general very inadequately remunerated for their labour. If the measure had come before the House as a tax, this consideration would doubtless have been attended to; and he hoped that, in any arrangement which might be made, care would be taken to press very tenderly on offices to which small salaries are attached.Mr. Brougham
sine die, denied that he had at all altered his tone on the subject. He had repeated that night what he had said last week. He had not altered his tone either to the noble lord, or his abettors, and he never would do so; and he begged the noble lord to receive that as his final avowal on the subject. The noble lord had introduced one topic in the observations which had just fallen from him, that was enough to stagger the stoutest friend of true reform in that House. The noble lord had alluded to a certain influence to be exercised over that House; not the influence of well disposed persons; not the influence of the wishes expressed by the people in their petitions, but another description of influence, which appeared to him to be of the nature of intimidation. Warm friend as he was to the cause of parliamentary reform, he held that that cause must be supported by other means than this. If there should appear any symptom of such a proceeding on the subject, he should not have the slightest hesitation in resorting to one of two expedients in order to counteract it; either to move the adjournment of the discussion sine die,Mr. Brougham
375374373** said, it had often been observed, and indeed with great justice, that there was not perhaps a more painful and irksome situation, than that where a man was obliged to speak of himself. In proportion to that painful situation, and in compassion to it, the indulgence of the House had always been extended, and he hoped it would be so on the present occa-
375374373**Mr. Brougham
 asked, whether it was the intention of ministers to propose that a voluntary contribution should be paid by persons in office, or that an assessment should be imposed in proportion to their salaries.Mr. H. Martin
394l.l.393 thought, after what the hon. gentleman had said, namely, that if hostilities had not taken place, he should not have considered himself entitled to claim that salary—that he might as well conclude the debate, and compound the matter with the noble lord. Let the hon. gentleman pocket his five pounds three shillings, and there be an end. It must be admitted, however, that the chief blame of this transaction rested with the lords of the admiralty. He differed from the hon. gentleman as to this being a personal affair, but he concurred with him in thinking that it was a paltry one. The sum itself was small in amount, but great and important with reference to the sufferings
394l.l.393Mr. Calcraft
392391§l., said, he felt the necessity of apologizing to the House for being obliged to offer himself to its attention on a subject so very personal, and in expressing the pain which he felt at being compelled to do so, he hoped that the House would extend to him its usual candour and good nature, which he felt himself entitled to claim in no less a degree than the hon. and learned gentleman opposite had this night already claimed it. The noble lord had made this question one as personal as it could possibly be made, for the noble lord had not only stated, that he was rapacious, that he was grasping, but that he was, in short, every thing which he hoped the noble lord was not, and which the noble lord in his heart could not really believe him to be. The noble lord had said that this increase of salary had been made not only for him, but by him, and that it had been extended to a few other officers (but not to all), as a pretence. The noble lord seemed to say that he not only took the increase of salary, but that he procured other persons to lend themselves to the same act. For his own part, he was quite above denying the part which he had taken in that matter. He had made the demand, because he thought it a matter of right; he had made it because he thought it due to the office. The amount was so paltry that it could be no inducement to him to make an unjust or doubtful claim. The noble lord talked of the example certainly the noble example of the Prince Regent. But he would ask, whether supposing that he (Mr. C). had been foolish and vain enough to have commenced in August last, by giving adonation to the public of this 220392391§l.,Mr. Croker
 said, the only question was, whether we were or were not in a state of hostilities. It had been urged, that we were not at war, because the noble admiral was sent out to negociate; but from the moment the massacre at Bona took place, the dey of Algiers was required to deliver up all the slaves, or his city would be bombarded. He thought the hon. secretary, therefore, was entitled to the war salary; and he was sorry that his majesty's ministers had come forward to say, that they intended to make any sacrifice of their income. He thought that public men were by no means overpaid; and he regretted that they had yielded to the theoretical and wild opinions of demagogues, who would assume to themselves the merit of having wrung such sacrifices from them by their clamours.Mr. Jones
 said, after all he had heard on the subject, his opinion remained unaltered, that the hon. secretary was not entitled to the war salary. If this was to be called a state of war, what was to be called an armament? An expedition might be composed not of ships of the line, and sent to some of the small forts on the coast of Africa, and this was to be considered a state of war. An armament did pot include a state of war. In the case of Nootka Sound (which was in some respects similar to that of Algiers, because the Spaniards then, as the Algerines recently, had been guilty of aggressions) there was an armament. Was it to be supposed that if the order in council had existed at that period, the hon. secretary of that period would have been entitled to demand an additional salary? It was obvious, that the expedition required no additional trouble: there was nothing to be completed but the armament. The lords of the admiralty would have done much better if they had promoted the officers who commanded bombs, which had been the practice on former occasions. Neither the House nor the country would have quarrelled with them for rewarding the services of those officers in the way they merited: but it was impossible to approve of their conduct in granting an additional salary to their secretaries for a war which lasted only two days.Admiral Markham
 expressed his persuasion, from the long knowledge which he had had of his hon. and learned friend, that he was incapable of the inconsistency which had been imputed to him. There was one expression, however, in his hon. and learned friend's speech, to which he wished the House particularly to attend, in order that they might be on their guard against the commencement of a system which would eventually be destructive of every constitutional principle. His hon. and learned friend had advised those who were the friends of the most extensive reform to be satisfied if they made but a beginning—if they obtained but a footing on the subject. When the question of parliamentary reform should come to be regularly discussed, and when the House should be told, as no doubt it would be told, by the advocates of what was called moderate reform, that the alterations which they proposed were trifling, and could do no harm, he would remind them of his hon. and learned friend's suggestion, that a beginning, was at any rate advisable; and on the ground that the beginning of an inroad on the constitution was dangerous, would he firmly resist every proposition that might be made on the subject.Mr. J. W. Ward
 in explanation, denied that there was any inconsistency in his sentiments on the subject of parliamentary reform. He knew it was very natural for so distinguished an individual as the noble lord to be ignorant of the opinions of an individual so little distinguished as himself; but he thought he was entitled to require that the noble lord should not misrepresent that which he did not know. He appealed to those who knew what his conduct was when he sat on the opposite side of the House, on the question of parliamentary reform, even at the hazard of the displeasure of some of his best friends. At that time he as strongly, as earnestly, and as sincerely pronounced an opinion against parliamentary reform as at present.Mr. Ward,
378 said, that his hon. friend opposite (Mr. Ward) had been that night, it seemed, laying the foundation for the resistance which it was his intention to make to any proposal for reform, however moderate. His hon. friend had talked triumphantly of the expression used by his hon. and learned friend, that "a beginning" was desirable, as if that expression afforded any support to his argument. Of what was the beginning, recommended by his hon. and learned friend? Not the beginning of mischief.—not the beginning of revolution—but the beginning of moderate and rational reform. He therefore strongly protested against the insinuation conveyed in his hon. friend's remarks. He agreed entirely with the hon. baronet in regretting the differences which had arisen among those who were all the friends of parliamentary reform. It was a subject on which he had felt great anxiety ever since he had had the honour of a seat in that House. He lamented much this disagreement; and he particularly lamented the chimerical systems held out as if to divert the people, and impede the progress of that rational reform, which every true friend of his country must wish to see established. His hon. and learned friend had vindicated—he ought rather to say he had completely repelled, the uncalled-for and undeserved attack that had been levelled at him. He hoped that from this time until the general discussion on the subject, the noble lord would abstain from personal attacks on those who were desirous to co-operate with him, to a certain extent. He would support the question of reform to the extent which he thought beneficial, although perhaps not to the extent to which the noble lord was disposed to go. He recollected that when he brought the question of reform before that House, he had the noble lord's support, although not on the principle on which he himself maintained his motion; for he wished for reform, because it would weaken the hands of government, and
378Mr. Brand
383 had heard with considerable pain the personal attack made by the noble lord on his hon. and learned friend, and with great satisfaction the complete manner in which his hon. and learned friend had vindicated himself. Adverting to the observations made on his hon. and learned friend's speech last week, he observed, that his hon. and learned friend was not liable to the imputations cast on him by the noble lord. All that his hon. and learned friend contended was, that
383Mr. Lyttelton
 wished to make one remark. He required to be satisfied as to the real ground on which the House was to vote in this business. The hon. secretary and the lords of the admiralty were directly at issue, as to the main point of the case. The secretary had stated, that he should not have considered the expedition to Algiers, as a war, and consequently should not have demanded his salary, if there had been no battle; the gallant admiral, however, stated broadly, that the war commenced as soon as the order for an expedition was issued. This point ought to be settled one way or other before the House came to a vote; and surely the hon. secretary was the fairest judge, at least he could not be supposed to understate his own claim. He considered the battle to have been the war; the battle was a business of two days; let him therefore have his claim, that is, the salary of two days of war. The noble lord who had just spoken had accused the opposition of making an appeal to the unsound part of the people. Mr. Smith said, he believed, that never was a charge more unfounded than such a charge as this brought against this side of the House as a body: and as to individuals, he could say, that no man of that opposition, no man in the House, not excepting the noble lord himself, was less likely to make such an appeal than the noble person who had brought forward the present motion. Indeed, the charge was not only unfounded, but, so applied, was perfectly ridiculous.Mr. W. Smith
 said, he had understood from the speech of the noble lord, that it was intended to levy a duty on the salaries of persons in office, and not a voluntary contribution, as it was now explained to be.Mr. W. Smith
 impressed upon the House the justice of considering, not that the war lasted two days only, but that, if lord Ex-mouth had met with any of the Algerines at sea, he would have felt it his duty to attack them.Sir G. Hope
 observed, that the proportion of marines to the naval force was much greater than on any former occasion. In the year 1792 there had been 10,000 men, of which 4,400 were marines; in 1800 there had been 18,000, of which 4,600 had been marines. As to the estimated allowance per man, it was formed after the most mature consideration, though it was not possible exactly to foretel the actual expense.Sir G. Warrender
d.s.l.s.l.409 rose to propose the Estimates for the ordinary service of the Navy, which had been brought to as near the lowest amount of the proposed peace establishment as was possible. The number of men which he had to propose was 19,000, of which number the royal marines were 6,000. The expense was
d.s.l.s.l.409Sir George Warrender
l.l.l.l. observed, that the question to be decided was extremely simple. The salary of the first secretary was fixed at 3,000l.l.l.l.Sir Joseph Yorke
 regretted any circumstances that occasioned delays in justice. Certainly, they were indebted to the hon. member for the notice he had taken of so important a branch of public administration; and he did not think the grounds assigned of sufficient weight. Whatever might be said respecting dilatoriness in the lord chancellor in the public business, he could say, from his own personal knowledge of him, that the last proceeding in which the noble lord could be dilatory would be in a case in which he might have to recommend mercy.Sir M. W. Ridley
390si quis alius,389d.s.l.388387386385 in rising to call the attention of the House to the increase made in the Salaries of the Secretaries of the Admiralty in consequence of the war with Algiers, said, that I it was remarkable how different was the appearance of objects, according to the difference of the mind and disposition of
390si quis alius,389d.s.l.388387386385Lord Milton,
 apprehended there could be no difficulty in the House agreeing to his motion, when they considered that it had always been customary not to meet on the birth-days of the king and queen, or at least on the days appointed for celebrating such birth-days. He regretted as much as any man could do, the delay which had taken place in the discussion of the hon. baronet's motion, but he could assure the hon. baronet and the House, that that delay was in no point of view owing to his majesty's ministers, as it was well known they were yesterday engaged at the very hour the House met, on most important business. No inconvenience could possibly arise from the motion of the hon. baronet being delayed for a few days longer, for in fact, that motion would have been before the House when the navy estimates came to be considered. There was not, at all events, such an immediate pressure for bringing it forward, as to induce the House to dispense with their usual custom of not meeting on birth-days. If the hon. baronet was desirous of immediately bringing the case before the House, he might probably make an arrangement with an hon. member on the same side, who had a motion standing for Friday. Monday was the day when the discussion on the report of the secret committee was proposed to take place, and that certainly was as important in every possible view, as any subject which could engage the attention of the House. Some early day might without inconvenience be fixed for the hon. baronet bringing on his motion, in the event of there being no arrangement made between him and the hon. member whose motion stood for Friday.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
438 said, that the motion which stood for Friday related to the poor laws, and certainly in that view was interesting to the whole country. If the House could devise a remedy for the evils complained of in the present state of these laws, he was certain they could not too soon enter into the consideration of it. Aware of its deep importance, he should lament that it was postponed beyond the time appointed by the hon. member in the notice he had given. Surely a question so infinitely interesting to the country, was worthy of being sooner considered than any reduction which might be made
438Lord Castlereagh
460l.l.l.l.459458onus probandi said, that the hon. gentleman had brought forward his motion with a good deal of dexterity, by making an appeal to the bank. He called on the directors of that establishment to adopt a manly line of conduct, and to bring under the closest inspection of the House, all the transactions which that concern was engaged in. Now, he conceived, the 460l.l.l.l.459458onus probandiThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
472 expressed his anxiety for the resumption of cash payments at the bank. As to the motion before the House, nothing, in his opinion, could be more improper than any inquiry on the part of the House into the preliminary means by which the bank prepared to carry its intention of resuming cash payments into effect. It was impossible that the bank could at any time resume those payments, without being furnished with ample treasure for the purpose. The particular transaction to which the noble lord's motion, referred was highly creditable to the bank, for it showed the sincere disposition of the directors to pay in specie at the earliest possible moment. Their notice stated their readiness to pay a part of their notes in this manner; and the right hon. gentleman here repeated his former observation relative to the smallness of amount which was demanded from the bank, in consequence of the notice alluded to. The resumption of cash payments could only be undertaken with great confidence in the public; and how could this confidence be maintained if parliament, in the face of the public, should exhibit a jealousy and want of confidence in the directors? This would overturn the whole arrangement for resuming cash payments, and do as much injury to the re-appearance
472The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed his warm approbation of the motion. It was highly disrespectful and unbecoming, that members should go away under such circumstances; and he was sure that gentlemen, on reflection, would see the necessity of some regulation on the subject.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 in putting the question, suggested the propriety of giving the sergeant at arms authority to tell members who might be leaving the House that they were acting inconsistent with their duty, and with the rules of the House.The Speaker
463§l.462 supported the motion for a committee of inquiry, on the ground of the advantages which had already resulted from the consideration given by the House to the engagement between the bank and the government, and the discussions to which it led. In 1807 the finance committee entered into an examination which led to a loan of three millions from the bank to the county. During the two last sessions of parliament the attention of the House was repeatedly directed to this subject; the vigilance of the country was awakened; the transactions of the bank with the government became better understood; and the result was, new and great advantages gained by the public. Surely, this history of past results and proceedings offered fresh inducements to inquiry, and urged the House on in the course which had already been so advantageous. Nor was there any reason why we should stop short, or dread any evil in the appointment of a parliamentary inquiry. If the committee appointed to institute an examination into subsisting engagements and transactions should find that the bank was still indebted to the public, and was in justice bound to make farther contributions, a positive advantage would be gained; and if, on the contrary, the result of its inquiries should be, that the public had already participated sufficiently in the profits of this corporation, lie was sure no injustice would be done it in demanding more. There were several facts and considerations which convinced him that the former would be the case; that the profits of the bank, which were enormous, were reaped at the expense of the public; and that the bargain which it made with the nation, for transacting its business, was far from being the best. To show that the services of this corporation, in acting as the national bankers, were exceedingly overpaid, he must appeal to the
463§l.462Mr. Marryat
s.?s.471 rose to submit a motion, which could not, he imagined, lead to a diversity of sentiment. It was, "That there be laid before this House, a copy of any notice given by the directors of the bank to the public in the year 1816, respecting any payment of their notes in specie; also an account of the amount of specie which in consequence of such notice the said company of the bank became liable to pay on demand; and an account of all specie actually paid in consequence of such order, to the latest period the same can be made out." The noble lord stated, that his object in calling for these returns was, to demonstrate the opinions he entertained upon the subject. It might be said, that the information he sought ought to remain a secret with the bank directors, who were its proper depositories, and in whom the utmost confidence should be placed. For his own part, he confessed that he could not pay implicit confidence in those personages, and that his experience taught him rather to distrust their proceedings. The noble lord, in illustration of his opinion, adverted to the evidence given by certain of the directors before the bullion committee, who broadly affirmed, that it was immaterial to the bank, whether the restriction was continued in perpetuity, or at once withdrawn. In calling the attention of the House to this subject, he did so from a conscientious feeling, that the prosperity of the country was connected with the affairs of the bank. His own experience convinced him that the interest and prosperity of the affairs of the bank, and those of the country, were mutually connected, but acted upon in an inverse ratio. The prosperity of the bank always kept pace with the distresses of the country. The one decreased as the other advanced, and so the operation of cause and effect would continue as long as the present mode of management was protected. The entire regulation of the bank affairs should not be vested in the directors, to the exclusion of the interposition of that House in behalf of the public. The noble lord
s.?s.471Lord Archibald Hamilton
 supported the motion. The resolution of his hon. friend called for a committee, in order to effect great public savings. He had pointed out various items on which savings might be made, and not one of his statements had been proved erroneous. If it could be shown that the business now transacted by the bank could be executed for half the sum which was paid for it, was it not incumbent on the House to appoint a committee, by which so much money might be saved? The question, in truth, was one more directly affecting the government than the bank; and unless the chancellor of the exchequer was prepared at once to deny that any saving could be effected for the public, in the mode of arranging their accounts with the bank, it was impossible for him to meet this motion with a negative.Lord A. Hamilton
 opposed the motion.Alderman C. Smith
 presented the report of the Secret Committee, which was read, and is as follows:Mr. Bathurst
437** said, that nothing was further from his intention than to throw any obstacles in the way of this motion, nor should he have in the least objected to it, excepting for the circumstance which had occurred last night. The motion of his hon. friend (sir M. W. Ridley), was then to have been discussed; but, for reasons which all might guess, none of his majesty's ministers were present, and there was such a deficiency in point of numbers, as to render it impossible that a House should be held. Of the deep importance of the question which should then have been discussed, he was sure the House had no occasion to be reminded, and therefore he could not but deeply regret that one night had been lost, and that it was now proposed to lose another day. That there was an immense pressure of business before the House, all could not but know, and it was surely deeply to be lamented that any delay whatever should take place. The motion of his hon. friend, although of such importance in every point of view could not come on this week, in consequence of no notice of it being given, and another important motion coming on before the House on Friday, while there was every probability also of Monday and Tuesday being engaged. It was not difficult to see that the object of ministers was, to put off as long as possible the discussion of this truly important question. It was morally impossible that they should not have known that the discussion was fixed for last night; and as he was aware they would not say on good grounds that they had been disappointed, in not finding sufficient numbers to make a House, he could not but regard it as rather a proof that their apprehension of immediate danger to the country had subsided, and was at an end. If the report of the committee of secrecy was really so pressing, as to call for some legislative provision independent of the existing laws, it was not at all likely that ministers should so readily agree to sacrifice two nights, as would be the case were this motion agreed to. It was the importance of his hon. friend's
437**Mr. Brougham
 would have gladly complied with the wishes of his hon. friend, in postponing his motion, but did not think he could do so in justice.Mr. Curwen
457l.d.l.d.l.l.l.l.456l.l.,l.l.l.;l.l.,l.l.l.,l.455l.,l.l.l.,l.l.l.,l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.454l.l.l.,l.,l.l.453452l.451l.l.d.l.d.l.450l.l.l.449448 rose and observed, that after the numerous petitions presented to
457l.d.l.d.l.l.l.l.456l.l.,l.l.l.;l.l.,l.l.l.,l.455l.,l.l.l.,l.l.l.,l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.454l.l.l.,l.,l.l.453452l.451l.l.d.l.d.l.450l.l.l.449448Mr. Grenfell
l.l.l.;l.469468 in reply, observed, that the main argument of the chancellor of the exchequer went to this, that the agreement made between government and the bank, in 1808, was final and conclusive, and that the hands of the House were tied up from making any further arrangement on the part of the public, as to the management of their accounts or balances. Mr. Grenfell said, he was not aware that the act of 1808 contained any provision of
l.l.l.;l.469468Mr. Grenfell
l.461 said, that the right hon. gentleman had not overturned one of the statements made by his hon. friend, who had called for a committee, that he might have an opportunity of proving every fact he had laid before the House. The committee of 1807, was not formed by the ministry of that day, but originated with a noble friend of his, now a member of the other House. From the report of that committee much advantage had been derived; but it did not go one-tenth so far as it would have done, if the statements of his hon. friend had been in evidence before that committee. Any unprejudiced person, who heard his hon. friend bring forward his statement of facts that night, could have no doubt whatever that he would, if opportunity were given him, prove every one. The vast profit made by the bank at the expense of the country showed the propriety and neces-
l.461Mr. P. Moore
465464 observed, that the latter part of the hon. gentleman's speech contained arguments which were directed to a different question than that now before the House, and should have been reserved till July, 1818, when the period fixed by parliament for the resumption of cash payments, the subject to which they related, would arrive. There was every reason to believe that the Bank would be able at that time to fulfil the hopes of the House and the country; and till the experiment were tried, there was no necessity for instituting an inquiry, especially after the mature deliberation which the subject had undergone last session. The two hon. gentlemen seemed to be at variance with each other in their statements, although both supported the same measure. The hon. gentleman who spoke last had stated that the bank had advanced 24 millions to government, while its capital was
465464Mr. Huskisson
l.l.l.l.467l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.466 did not remember these subjects being brought forward on any occasion, when he was not anxious to give the most explicit answer in his power. He thought the hon. gentleman called for a committee without grounding his motion on any substantial reasons. One circumstance appeared to him rather extraordinary. He did not believe that the hon. gentleman was in the habit of attending
l.l.l.l.467l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.466Mr. Manning
, in explanation, begged merely to say, that he had no intention whatever to impute to the hon. gentleman the remotest connexion between his sentiments and those of certain persons out of doors. As to the statement which appeared in the British Press, of the 11th of January, he supposed it had dropped out of the hon. gentleman's pocket, and had thus found its way into publicity.Mr. Manning
 considered the question which should have been discussed last night as one of the greatest importance, and one which could not be too soon, brought before the House. If any thing were wanting to show the anxiety of ministers to put it off as long as they could, their conduct last night was sufficient, for not one of them was in the House.Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, he was fully aware of the hardships of this case, as stated by the hon. baronet, and he could assure him and the House, that immediate measures would be taken to prevent its recurrence. He should certainly do every thing he possibly could to promote the benefit of all parties, and to do justice between them. He should do so without delay, and could only regret that any individual should have been put to any inconvenience.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
500 expressed his satisfaction at the communication just made by the right hon. gentleman, and stated it to be his intention, on an early day, to bring the question of the revival of the committee under the consideration of the House. When the magistrates said they were unheard, he must say, unfortunately for some of them, they had been heard. The conduct of one of them had been proved to be so improper, by himself, on his being heard, that he (Mr. Bennett) fell Inclined to blame that charity which had at the time restrained him from bringing the individual in question before the House. He spoke of Mr. Merceron, whose evidence had been such as ought to have drawn down upon him the punishment of that House. After the disclosures made in the last year, it might have been expected that enough had been done to caution the magistrates. It might have been hoped they would have offered some atonement for the past, by acting a more upright part. This, however, they had not done; and the proof of it was, that all the houses complained of had again been re-licensed. For acting thus, he now, in his place, charged the county magistrates with the most corrupt exercise of the power entrusted to them. Another instance of their corruption was to be found in their having re-licensed a house called the Duke of York, in defiance of the most respectable inhabitants of the neighbourhood, and of the churchwardens and police magistrates. A petition against it had been presented by Mr. Markland, but in spite of all the representations that could be made, Mr. Merceron and the other trading magistrates of the county, who were worse than the trading magistrates of other times, had thought themselves justified in renewing the licence, a sort of lecture being read by sir David Williams on the occasion to the landlord, setting forth the rules by which his conduct ought to be regulated for the future in the management of a public-house. But what was the result? Was the house more respectable than formerly? No. He knew that within the last two days it bad been as bad as ever. It was the resort of thieves and prostitutes; and boys were daily assembled there to be instructed in all the varieties of debauchery and crime.
500Mr. Bennet
ex parte wished to put it to the candour of the House, and particularly to the candour of his hon. and learned friend, whether it could be considered to have been the duty of the lord chancellor to advise the striking out of an individual's name from the commission of the peace, whilst the conduct of that individual was a subject of inquiry before a committee of that House. He would ask, whether it would be becoming in the chancellor to act against any magistrate before his conviction, as if he were already convicted of some offence? The lord chancellor had not, however, acted as if the party had not been at all inculpated; for he had directed the opinions of himself and the solicitor-general to be taken, with regard to the propriety of filing a criminal information against him. But although it was competent to any person complaining of injustice or misconduct in magistrates, either for granting or refusing licences, to apply to the court of King's-bench for a criminal information, the law-officers of the crown had no means of putting themselves in motion until they were perfectly satisfied of the weight and incontrovertibility of the evidence upon which they were to proceed. It was their business, when they filed informations, not to do it by an application upon an ex parteThe Attorney General
 thought the hon. and learned gentleman extremely well qualified to answer his own question. He could not describe the rule upon which the lord chancellor acted on all occasions, although he was sure that it was from the most conscientious motives; but he had not uttered, and never could have uttered, any thing to justify the interpretation of the hon. and learned gentlemen, without exposing his own ignorance and presumption.The Attorney General
502 presented a petition from 259 inhabitants of Brentford, in favour of a
502Mr. Bennet
 was confident that no undue bias existed in the minds of the magistrates of the division in which the town of Brentford was situated: than whom a more honourable set of men were not in existence.Colonel Wood
 said, that he had no charge to make against Mr. Merceron, but that which Mr. Merceron had furnished himself in his own evidence.Mr. Bennet
 described Mr. Merceron's conduct before the committee as evincing cool, deliberate, and habitual falsehood. Whenever he was asked a question, his invention seemed immediately to be set to work to get rid of it by artifice. So short was his memory, that he never recollected what he had said ten minutes before and therefore contradicted himself continually.Mr. Bennet
 asked, if there was no imputation, for what then did the petitioners pray?The Attorney General
504‡ called the attention of the House to the number of Prisoners now under sentence of death in Newgate, and whose cases had not yet been reported to the Prince Regent. This number was set forth in a return presented to the House on Wednesday last. There were five who received sentence of death in July last, and four in September, whose cases had been reserved for the opinion of the judges. He could wish to know whether, in these instances, the delay was
504‡Mr. Bennet
 understood that the delay in the earlier cases had arisen from a necessary investigation into their circumstances. With regard to the latter cases, a council would have been already called, on the subject, had not a very important inquiry intervened and caused an unavoidable postponement of that consideration. The council would, however, be held tomorrow, and he entirely concurred with the hon. gentleman in thinking that no subject demanded greater promptitude of attention.Lord Castlereagh
 observed, that of the convicts mentioned by the hon. gentleman as being under sentence of death, some were those whose cases had been reserved for the consideration of the judges; whose judgment was not promulgated.The Attorney General
 reprobated the delay that ' had taken place in the report of those under sentence of death in October. Why had it not been presented long ago?Mr. Bennet
 observed, that during the first part of the intervening period the recorder had probably not been prepared for his report, and that of the delay in the last part his noble friend had stated the cause.The Attorney General
 replied, that he knew from good authority, that the recorder had been long prepared with his October report. If so, he contended that the secretary of state for the home department, the lord chancellor, or whosoever ought to have had to do with the business, had been guilty of a criminal neglect of duty.Mr. Bennet
 remarked, that whatever information the hon. gentleman might have received, it could hardly be on better authority than that on which he asserted, that, some days ago, the recorder was not ready to ask for a day to be appointed for the reception of his report.The Attorney General
529528527526525524523 complimented the hon. member on the calm, deliberate, and judicious manner in which he had introduced this important subject; and admitted, that his claim on him for his general view of the subject was fair. He was anxious to support inquiry, as were all around him. The hon. member might rest assured, that his majessy's ministers would most cheerfully dedicate so much of their time as they could possibly withdraw from other duties, to assist in the investigation of this most important subject. Though he might entertain doubts, whether all the sanguine views of the hon. gentleman could be realized by the labours of the proposed committee, he certainly believed that much good might reasonably be expected from the measure; and it should not be said at the close of the inquiry that any indifference had been shown by ministers with respect to it. The subject was one of the very utmost importance to the safety and prosperity of the country; and if any class of men were called upon more than another to give their attention to it, it was those who were entrusted with the care of the affairs of the nation. The mind of government ought to be turned to that subject above all others; and after his majesty's ministers saw their way clearly, and were satisfied of the existence of a disposition in the country to support any measures which it should be deemed advisable to propose, they would then feel themselves justified in giving every assistance in their power to the giving effect to them. He assured the hon. gentleman, that he took as gloomy a view of the influence of the poor laws in breaking down the national character as he could possibly do; and if no means could be found of elevating the national character by inspiring the population of the country with the wish rather to live on their own labour, than on what they could draw from the labour and property of others, he firmly believed that the English people would not in future ages be what they had been in times past. He believed, that if they were to look to the mere letter of the law, they would find that the statute of Elizabeth and the poor law of Scotland would be found nearly the same. But though the original pur-
529528527526525524523Lord Castlereagh
 —Not on any such ground certainly. It will be for the House to judge for itself whether any petition presented to it does or does not pray for relief generally.The Speaker.
 stated, that the delay in making the report arose from the length of the sessions and from motives of humanity. It was spent, in fact, in making inquiries into the various cases. The prisoners in Newgate, where he had been that day, did not complain of the law's delay. At three o'clock that very afternoon, the recorder had told him that he would make his report to-morrow, and was happy to say that he should have but few to execute.Alderman C. Smith
 suggested that the case in question was more fit for the consideration of the court of King's-bench, than of that House.Mr. Bathurst
499 said, that if this complaint were on an individual case or two, it would not require the interference of parliament; because it was a mistake to suppose that the law did not afford a remedy—the court of King's-bench had a jurisdiction in cases of this sort. The question, however, rested on the report of the committee of last session, which certainly contained charges of a serious nature against the magistrates, and on that ground an investigation had partially taken place; but all the parties had not been fully heard, and therefore he thought the course proposed by the hon. and learned gentleman was the proper one to pursue. The different cases had been submitted to the lord chancellor, who did not think himself justified in applying that discretionary power which was vested in him, but had directed that the opinions of the attorney and solicitor general should be taken with regard to the propriety of instituting a prosecution. These law officers had not discovered sufficient grounds for recommending such a measure; but he could assure the House, that his noble friend and relation lord Sidmouth, had done every thing in his power to attain the ends of justice. He knew that he was animated by an earnest desire to effect some improvement, and that he felt it to be not so much a question of property to individuals, as one affecting the discharge of a very important trust on the part of magistrates, and a trust which appeared, in some instances,
499Mr. Bathurst
 deprecated loose charges against the magistracy of the country, made in that House by petition or otherwise; such charges brought in the court of King's bench would not be half so prejudical, as when they were brought forward in that House, where the gentlemen accused could not defend themselves, and by which step the imputations against them, however unfounded they might eventually turn out to be, were circulated more widely than they could be by any other process. For himself, if he were described in any petition in the way in which some of the magistrates were described in the petition which had just been, read, he would immediately request to have his name struck out of the commission for the peace, well knowing that, however unjust the charge, the extensive circulation of it must materially diminish his usefulness and respectability as a magistrate.Mr. H. Sumner
 said, that the prayer of the petition was for relief generally. As such a doctrine as that now advocated by the hon. and learned gentleman would end in the rejection of all petitions, he requested the Speaker would have the goodness to state whether a petition, praying for relief generally, could, according to the rules and practice of that House, be rejected.Mr. Brougham
 confirmed this statement, and again expressed his regret that the humanity of his hon. friend had prevented him from reporting Mr. Merceron's conduct to the House. As to the petition which had just been read, it was impossible to reject it, consistently with the rules and practice of that House. He allowed that the line ought to be carefully drawn between those complaints that ought to be made to parliament, and those that ought to be made in courts of justice. But there was nothing in the petition under consideration—no imputation of malversation in office, which could warrant an application to the court of King's-bench.Mr. Brougham
 said, if he had been mistaken, it was a mistake common to many on his side of the House, who certainly understood the hon. and learned gentleman to have stated that the lord chancellor had not struck out the name of Mr. Merceron from the list of magistrates because he had not hitherto been legally convicted of any offence. He regretted that the learned lord had omitted to strike out the name of that individual, especially as that individual stood openly convicted to the understanding of the world, upon his own evidence; and he regretted also that the chairman of the committee had not deemed it necessary to report that person to the House. He perfectly agreed with the observations on the purity of the lord chancellor's motives; but was sorry that, under the circumstances of this case, he had not thought the same sort of interposition necessary which he had on one occasion exercised in the county of Durham, in which he had of his own authority put an individual on his defence.Mr. Brougham
501 desired to know whether the House was to understand, that the rule which the lord chancellor prescribed to himself was, never to recommend the omis-
501Mr. Brougham
522**521***v.520519l.1,500
1,500750And 7½ per cent, on land
750And 7½ per cent, on land750From this it is evident that 1½ percent, on labour producing
750From this it is evident that 1½ percent, on labour producing2,500
2,5001,00010 per cent, on land and houses,
1,00010 per cent, on land and houses,1,500would produce
1,500would produce
1,500
1,500750And 7½ per cent, on land
750And 7½ per cent, on land750From this it is evident that 1½ percent, on labour producing
750From this it is evident that 1½ percent, on labour producing2,500
2,5001,00010 per cent, on land and houses,
1,00010 per cent, on land and houses,1,500would produce
1,500would producel,s.l.,l.,518l.;l.;517516s.5159,045,000Making
9,045,000Making4,375,000With 12½ per cent, from land
4,375,000With 12½ per cent, from land4,670,000Making a total of personal property
4,670,000Making a total of personal property3,370,000Do. on stock, as above
3,370,000Do. on stock, as above1,300,000Ten per cent. on this
1,300,000Ten per cent. on this13,000,000
13,000,0001,000,0001,761,453 tons of shipping, producing now half what it did, at
1,000,0001,761,453 tons of shipping, producing now half what it did, at2,000,000l.20,000,000l.
2,000,000l.20,000,000l.10,000,000Supposing two hundred millions, producing at5 per cent.
10,000,000Supposing two hundred millions, producing at5 per cent.
9,045,000Making
9,045,000Making4,375,000With 12½ per cent, from land
4,375,000With 12½ per cent, from land4,670,000Making a total of personal property
4,670,000Making a total of personal property3,370,000Do. on stock, as above
3,370,000Do. on stock, as above1,300,000Ten per cent. on this
1,300,000Ten per cent. on this13,000,000
13,000,0001,000,0001,761,453 tons of shipping, producing now half what it did, at
1,000,0001,761,453 tons of shipping, producing now half what it did, at2,000,000l.20,000,000l.
2,000,000l.20,000,000l.10,000,000Supposing two hundred millions, producing at5 per cent.
10,000,000Supposing two hundred millions, producing at5 per cent.3,370,000Ten per cent, on the produce would produce
3,370,000Ten per cent, on the produce would produce33,700,000
33,700,0001,200,000Income of the bank on twelve millions worth 24,000,000
1,200,000Income of the bank on twelve millions worth 24,000,000200,000Four millions South Sea stock
200,000Four millions South Sea stock300,000In six millions of India stock
300,000In six millions of India stock32,000,000The amount of dividends and interest payable to the public creditor may be calculated at
32,000,000The amount of dividends and interest payable to the public creditor may be calculated at
3,370,000Ten per cent, on the produce would produce
3,370,000Ten per cent, on the produce would produce33,700,000
33,700,0001,200,000Income of the bank on twelve millions worth 24,000,000
1,200,000Income of the bank on twelve millions worth 24,000,000200,000Four millions South Sea stock
200,000Four millions South Sea stock300,000In six millions of India stock
300,000In six millions of India stock32,000,000The amount of dividends and interest payable to the public creditor may be calculated at
32,000,000The amount of dividends and interest payable to the public creditor may be calculated atl.,514s.s.s.l.l.l.513512511510l.509508507*** rose and said:—Mr. Speaker; in compliance with my notice, it now becomes my duty to bring under the consideration of the House a question of the most vital importance to the general interests of the country. Deeply affecting the prosperity and happiness of all ranks, so vast the objects connected with the subject, so interwoven with the distresses of the country, that in tracing this operation, my mind has been so appalled, that I have frequently felt ready to abandon the undertaking in despair. Nothing but a sense of duty, and a firm conviction that the country would consider such conduct as a dereliction of public duty, have given me courage to proceed. The House will do me the justice to recollect that I undertook the task in a former session,522**521***v.520519l.1,500
1,500750And 7½ per cent, on land
750And 7½ per cent, on land750From this it is evident that 1½ percent, on labour producing
750From this it is evident that 1½ percent, on labour producing2,500
2,5001,00010 per cent, on land and houses,
1,00010 per cent, on land and houses,1,500would produce
1,500would produce
1,500
1,500750And 7½ per cent, on land
750And 7½ per cent, on land750From this it is evident that 1½ percent, on labour producing
750From this it is evident that 1½ percent, on labour producing2,500
2,5001,00010 per cent, on land and houses,
1,00010 per cent, on land and houses,1,500would produce
1,500would producel,s.l.,l.,518l.;l.;517516s.5159,045,000Making
9,045,000Making4,375,000With 12½ per cent, from land
4,375,000With 12½ per cent, from land4,670,000Making a total of personal property
4,670,000Making a total of personal property3,370,000Do. on stock, as above
3,370,000Do. on stock, as above1,300,000Ten per cent. on this
1,300,000Ten per cent. on this13,000,000
13,000,0001,000,0001,761,453 tons of shipping, producing now half what it did, at
1,000,0001,761,453 tons of shipping, producing now half what it did, at2,000,000l.20,000,000l.
2,000,000l.20,000,000l.10,000,000Supposing two hundred millions, producing at5 per cent.
10,000,000Supposing two hundred millions, producing at5 per cent.
9,045,000Making
9,045,000Making4,375,000With 12½ per cent, from land
4,375,000With 12½ per cent, from land4,670,000Making a total of personal property
4,670,000Making a total of personal property3,370,000Do. on stock, as above
3,370,000Do. on stock, as above1,300,000Ten per cent. on this
1,300,000Ten per cent. on this13,000,000
13,000,0001,000,0001,761,453 tons of shipping, producing now half what it did, at
1,000,0001,761,453 tons of shipping, producing now half what it did, at2,000,000l.20,000,000l.
2,000,000l.20,000,000l.10,000,000Supposing two hundred millions, producing at5 per cent.
10,000,000Supposing two hundred millions, producing at5 per cent.3,370,000Ten per cent, on the produce would produce
3,370,000Ten per cent, on the produce would produce33,700,000
33,700,0001,200,000Income of the bank on twelve millions worth 24,000,000
1,200,000Income of the bank on twelve millions worth 24,000,000200,000Four millions South Sea stock
200,000Four millions South Sea stock300,000In six millions of India stock
300,000In six millions of India stock32,000,000The amount of dividends and interest payable to the public creditor may be calculated at
32,000,000The amount of dividends and interest payable to the public creditor may be calculated at
3,370,000Ten per cent, on the produce would produce
3,370,000Ten per cent, on the produce would produce33,700,000
33,700,0001,200,000Income of the bank on twelve millions worth 24,000,000
1,200,000Income of the bank on twelve millions worth 24,000,000200,000Four millions South Sea stock
200,000Four millions South Sea stock300,000In six millions of India stock
300,000In six millions of India stock32,000,000The amount of dividends and interest payable to the public creditor may be calculated at
32,000,000The amount of dividends and interest payable to the public creditor may be calculated atl.,514s.s.s.l.l.l.513512511510l.509508507***Mr. Curwen
 wished to say one word in explanation. He did not mean that the slightest degree of coercion should be used as to saving banks. His plan was to be adopted only where it met with the wishes of the majority of the parishioners.Mr. Curwen
 observed, that he had ever since the publication of the report, thought it incumbent on his majesty's ministers to adopt some immediate measure for remedying the evils which were there developed. He could not help saying, that ministers generally evinced a much greater anxiety for the collection of the revenue than for any improvement in the morals of the country. Although the House heard frequent congratulations from the throne on the prosperous state of the finances, they never heard any allusion to the growing virtue of the community. He believed, however, that with reference to the interests of the revenue itself, nothing could be more advantageous than a healthy state of morals among the people.Mr. Lockhart
, adverting to what had been said about Mr. Merceron, remarked, that it was but justice to that individual to observe, that he had recently obtained a verdict in the court of King's bench against some individuals by whom he had been libelled.Mr. Butterworth
 acknowledged that the country at large was extremely indebted to the hon. gentleman for his humane and zealous exertions. What he had observed about Mr. Merceron was merely what he conceived to be an act of justice to that individual.Mr. Butterworth
493† rose to present a petition from several merchants, traders, and shopkeepers, in the city of London, on a subject to which he begged leave to call the attention of the chancellor of the exchequer. It was respecting the new reading and new construction given to an act of par-
493†Sir James Shaw
506 presented a petition from the town of Gainsborough and its vicinity, praying for triennial parliaments, representation co-extensive with direct taxation, and election by ballot. The petition had been agreed to at a numerous meeting, regularly convened, and the proceedings of which were conducted with perfect order. He did not concur with the last part of the prayer—that which referred to election by ballot; but he would support such a plan of reform as should, by extending the elective franchise, make that House more substantially the representative of the people. He wished for the restoration of triennial parliaments, an institution established at the best period of our history, and repealed by a measure of very equivocal policy. He would give his support also to every proposition for the retrenchment of the public expenditure, and the abolition of sinecures and useless places. With regard to plans of more extensive alteration or reform, he should reserve the statement of his opinions for another occasion; but as it was manifestly the wish of the great body of the people that some reform in the representation should take place, he trusted that the House would
506Sir Robert Heron
l.498497496 presented a petition from several householders residing in, and by White Horse lane, in the parish of Stepney, complaining of the conduct of magistrates in the licensing of public-houses. All he should ask at present would be, for the petitions to lie on the table, as he intended at a future time to move for a committee on the subject. If his hon. friend, who moved for a committee last session on the subject of the police, should offer any measure on the report of that committee, the present petition might be referred to that; if he did not come forward, he should himself propose a committee on the question. The petition in his hand was signed by 250 respectable individuals, who complained of the injustice of the magistrates in refusing to license a house in that district, which was very much wanted; the house, too, was one of a very superior description. Taking the circumstance by itself, perhaps there was little to complain of, that the magistrates, in the exercise of
l.498497496Sir S. Romilly
 said, the hon. and learned gentleman was mistaken, if he imagined that it had been intended to impute any blame to the law-officers of the crown.Sir S. Romilly
604603602‡601600599598597596595594593592591 rose. He assured the House, that in the whole course of his life he had never performed a more painful duty than that which he was then called upon to discharge. It had frequently been necessary for him in extraordinary exigencies of the state to call on parliament to take extraordinary measures to meet those exigencies. But it was peculiarly painful and grievous to find, that after having passed through all the dangers and pressure of war it became necessary, notwithstanding the return of peace abroad, to require the adoption of proceedings that might insure the continuance of tranquillity at home. He certainly should have hoped, that after the dreadful record of the sufferings of mankind which the French revolution had afforded, after the proofs which had been given during the fast twenty-five years, that those who engaged in such hazardous enterprises brought down not only destruction on their own heads, but ruin on their country; it would have been difficult, if not impossible, to find any individual so dead to all sense of private feeling and public duty; so prone to be operated upon by artful and wicked individuals, as to engage in schemes of a similar tendency, and to render the immediate and powerful interference of parliament necessary, in order to maintain the public peace. But much as he or any one else might have flattered himself on this subject, it was perhaps not surprising, looking at the nature and spirit, and course of the revolution to which he had alluded, to discover that there were men, who, without any natural pretensions, had pride and audacity enough to imagine that they were competent to fill the first offices of the state, and to make themselves masters of
604603602‡601600599598597596595594593592591Lord Castlereagh
607606605, under the circumstances in which he now felt himself called upon to offer himself to the notice of the House, felt extremely apprehensive, that in stat-
607606605Mr. Ponsonby
, in explanation, disclaimed the intention of casting any imputation on particular individuals. It certainly appeared to the committee that the conspirators in their proceedings had looked forward to the appointment of some committee of public safety, which they imagined might be composed of certain individuals, who it was thought improbable would be connected with them. This afforded a fair ground for him to throw out a caution to such individuals as might be the objects of the expectation to which he had alluded; and that was all that he had done.Lord Castlereagh
614Quo cecidit sub crimine? quisnam Delator? Quibus indiciis? Quo teste probavit? Nil horum. Verbosa et grandis epistola venit.613612611ex post facto610volenti non fit injuria609608in limine said, that having so very different an impression from reading the report of the committee of secrecy, from that of the noble lord opposite, or the right hon. gentleman near him, and being far from possessing the same confidence in the ministers of the crown which some seemed to possess, he could not refrain from entering his protest against the new infringement of the constitution, which the House was called upon to sanction. Seeing so much exaggeration of well known facts, and such unauthorized insinuations against persons who were innocent; believing that an attempt was made to create alarm for no other purpose than as a ground for measures which would prevent the people from demanding their rights, he felt that he should not be doing his duty if he did not oppose 614Quo cecidit sub crimine? quisnam Delator? Quibus indiciis? Quo teste probavit? Nil horum. Verbosa et grandis epistola venit.613612611ex post facto610volenti non fit injuria609608in limineSir Francis Burdett
 explained. He did not mean alarmist in a bad sense; but jacobin could not be used in a good one, as it generally passed for cut-throat.Sir F. Burdett
 rose to order. To say that I the conduct of another member was not gentlemanly, was not, he conceived, consistent with the order of the House.Mr. Bennet
622ex-officio621 entirely concurred in the opinion, that the more convenient opportunity for discussing the subject would be when the bills were on the table. He could assure his hon. and learned friend, that it was with great reluctance that his majesty's government proposed any measures of additional severity. The act to which his hon. and learned friend had alluded would still remain in force; but it was necessary to introduce the one proposed, because there were persons who engaged in practices that ought to render them liable to punishment; but who, by studying the enactments of the act in question, were enabled to keep clear of it, and defeat its object. It was therefore necessary to have a new mode of describing its operation. In answer to his hon. and learned friend, as to what had been done under that statute, he could say, that government had been long and anxiously looking to the subject; and that they possessed information of all the mischievous; proceedings of the different societies. He agreed with his hon. and learned friend, that there was not to be apprehended any danger of the destruction of the constitution of this mighty empire from such proceedings; but that, in the protection of that constitution we might be under the necessity of witnessing scenes of bloodshed; and plunder, unless the laws were made more adequate to prevent them. With respect to prosecutions against societies, since he had been in office, there had been none; not that he had been unaware of the existence and objects of these societies, but that he felt he had not evidence, as the law stood at present, to prosecute them to conviction. He should wish that he might not have occasion to be called on to do any thing against them in his official capacity; but he was not unprepared to
622ex-officio621The Attorney-General
 observed, that the report was not confined to the proceedings of one description of societies, but described an evil resulting from a combination of causes, for which the law at present furnished no adequate provision. There was undoubtedly a law for the punishment of riots. But there was none at present to prevent them. He knew of no provision made by any statute that could be applied to these societies, which acted independently of each other, though upon principles common to all, and assuming even the same denomination. Had his hon. and learned friend looked into the 39th of the King, cap. 79, with his usual accuracy, he must have seen, that those associations to which he had referred were not within its meaning; and his own opinion was, that they had been organized for the purpose of evading it. The object of the act was certainly to prevent unlawful confederacies, but it did not extend to societies which communicated with each other by delegates at public meetings, and this was an omission in that act. The new bill was intended to make such societies as had delegates illegal, which the law, as it at present stood, did not. It appeared, therefore, to him, that his hon. and learned friend had mistaken the nature of the measure.The Solicitor-General
 said, that if the people of England were to be denied a trial by their peers, if they were to be deprived of their just rights under the constitution, on no better grounds than those laid down in the report of the committee, he considered the course adopted to be illegal and unfair. It was said that advantage had been taken of the existing distress, in order to bring forward plans for the subversion of the constitution. He knew of no plan but that of the Spenceans which had been particularly brought forward, and pressed on public attention, at this period. The projects of those persons who wished for a reform in parliament, had been persevered in for a very long period, and those who supported them could not, in fairness, be accused of acting a part hostile to the constitution of their country. If the bills now about to be brought in should be passed into laws, the people, deprived of the means of meeting peaceably, as they had been accustomed to do, to petition for relief from their grievances, would have no-resource but an appeal to physical force—which God forbid should ever be attempted in this country; or that tacit resistance which they might have it in their power to offer, by withholding those taxes which it might be attempted to draw from their pockets;—[Cries of "Order"].Lord Cochrane
629 declared, that nothing was farther from his intention than to advise the people to offer any active resistance to the laws. He only wished them to adopt the passive conduct of the quietest people in the world—the Quakers. All he desired was, that those supplies should be kept from getting to the throne, which enabled the throne to subvert the liberties of the people. The Spencean plans he described to be the most absurd and the most wicked that could be imagined, as they went not to divide, but to confiscate property. He, however, considered the
629Lord Cochrane
639Habeas Corpusnegation638637arewillwere636the people.for635634633***632**a splash*then631630 rose and said:—639Habeas Corpusnegation638637arewillwere636the people.for635634633***632**a splash*then631630Mr. Canning
 then obtained leave to bring in a bill "to revive and make perpetual an act of the 37th year of his present majesty, for the better prevention and punishment of attempts to seduce persons serving in his majesty's forces by sea or land from their duty and allegiance to his majesty, or to incite them to mutiny or disobedience;" and also a bill "to make perpetual certain parts of an act of the 36th year of his present majesty, for the safety and preservation of his majesty's person and government against treasonable and seditious practices and attempts, and for the safety and preservation of the person of his royal highness the Prince Regent against treasonable practices and attempts." The three bills were then brought in and read a first time.Lord Castlereagh
 said, the noble lord was decidedly out of order. It could never be endured in that House that any member should hold language which went directly to encourage the people to disobey the law.The Speaker
628627626625coup de main624toto cœlo623 declared, that although suffering under severe indisposition, yet having listened to the noble lord's new-plan of legislative measures, and the conversation to which their disclosure had given rise, after hearing the concessions made by his right hon. friend, natural perhaps to him as one of the committee upon whose report these measures were founded, he must express a very material difference of opinion from his right hon. friend; to whom however he was persuaded no one could impute to him the intention of showing the slightest disrespect. That diversity of sentiment which it must always
628627626625coup de main624toto cœlo623Mr. Brougham
argumentum ad hominem.616**615 said, it was with great reluctance he consented to trouble the House on the present occasion, and he trusted he should experience their indulgence for a few words, as exhibiting the reasons for his conduct on measures, which he should be sorry that the House should rashly embark in without a consideration of their necessity. He should not answer the speech of the hon. baronet, which contained not the strict argument and deep reflection which the subject demanded, but a declamation against the tenor of the proposed measures, as measures hostile to the constitution. But when it was conceded to the hon. baronet that they were hostile to the constitution, they were not much advanced in the consideration of them. The measures were not proposed as speculative improvements on the theory of our constitution, but as essentially necessary to its safety. The House might be in that condition too often incident to human affairs, that of choosing between difficulties. When a part of the community were perverting the constitution to its destruction, it was to be considered whether a temporary suspension of a portion of our privileges might not be necessary to the permanent security of the whole. It was purely a question of danger; whether it was such as would justify the adoption of such a law. On one point he differed from his right hon. friend; and that was as to the extent and the magnitude of the danger. Certainly if there existed a regular defined plot, with arms and leaders ready to break forth—indubitably it was a question not for parliament but for the field. That would be at once a state of civil contest; but it was against the approach of such a crisis that they were now called on to provide. The nature of the present danger was this— there was a systematic attempt to corrupt morally and politically the lower orders of the people. By some the lower orders were treated with contempt; but to alienate the physical force of a country from the moral to separate the population of a country from its establishments was indeed a matter of no small moment. So divided, the people would be in a condition to become the instruments of any agitators, and such persons were to be found in such times and in all countries. This was the object of the present efforts—the means were by immoral and blasphemous publi-
argumentum ad hominem.616**615Mr. Elliot
 denied, that the report was what it was called, a libel on the people of England. It took the utmost care to distinguish between the sound part of the people and the incendiaries; between those who endeavoured to delude them, and the more worthy part of them, who had not been misled or excited. The hon. baronet had called him and the other members of the committee notorious alarmists. Thus, to use nick-names, was, he thought, not just, not wise, not parliamentary, not gentlemanly.Mr. Lamb
618617 corrected himself, and observed, that if this language was not con-
618617Mr. Lamb
620619 wished the House to consider the subject maturely before it adopted the measures proposed. What was the nature of those measures which were intended to be taken? It ought to be shown in what way the new remedy was to be applied. He was not disposed to underrate the evils of the country, or the dangers that arose out of them. He felt that the evils were great, and the dangers formidable. When he so spoke, it became him to say what he meant. These dangers, then, did not appear to him to threaten the constitution. The persons mentioned in the report were too insignificant; they could not carry their designs into execution. The danger appeared to him to threaten individuals. His right hon. friend had not succeeded in proving to him the necessity of suspending the Habeas Corpus act, nor had the noble lord shown the necessity of his other measures. There was great danger of rashness in legislating; and if there had been a due consideration of what the law was as it at present existed, and how far government had endeavoured to carry it into execution, he was convinced that the committee would not have recommended any change. The noble lord was mistaken in his speech in supposing that no law existed against secret meetings. There were strong, efficacious, and severe enactments against such seditious or secret meetings, against societies that took oaths, against societies that corresponded or had an interchange of delegates, against societies that required contributions of money; and all persons who were found guilty were liable to transportation for seven
620619Sir S. Romilly
, in explanation of his meaning on a former debate, said, that he used the expression about reform touching a chord that vibrated without his control, not for the purpose of declaring that he was alarmed at reform, but for stating that it was a subject on which he was almost always disposed to speak long, and in delivering his sentiments on which he might be tedious to the House.Lord Milton
 replied, that the question was one which he found it difficult to answer at the moment, in consequence of the complicated nature of the negociations. He could, however, state, that no progress had been as yet made towards making any alteration in the existing treaty.Lord Castlereagh
642 said, it was necessary for him to state that any such rumour was not in the least degree countenanced by his majesty's government. For his own part, he never in any degree ceded his opinion, that under the present circumstances of the country, the prayer of this petition could not be complied with. Whatever reason there might be for a reduction of duty on any other article of consumption, certainly it would be agreed that on the article in question the duty ought to be kept up at as high a rate as possible. When the subject in question came to be discussed, he should be prepared to show, that if the prayer of
642The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.; was surprised that any rumour could have gone abroad of any intention on the part of ministers to reduce the amount of taxation, as such a measure was altogether hostile to their system. It might, indeed, have been thought that the right hon. gentleman would have desired to have collected an improving revenue, instead of experiencing a diminution in the port of London alone of 338,000l.;Mr. Ponsonby
 presented a petition from the inhabitant householders of the Borough of Southwark, agreed to at a meeting convened by the high bailiff, praying for a return to triennial parliaments, and such other reform in the representation of the people as to the wisdom of parliament should appear to be best calculated to secure the rights and liberties of the people; and praying also for economy and retrenchment.Mr. Calvert
 approved of the petition in so far as regarded retrenchment, but not in so far as it called on the House to go into a committee for the purpose of an inquiry into the reform of the constitution of the House. He never would give his consent to the House going into any such committee till he saw some plan of reform to which he could give his assent. He had paid much attention to the subject of reform, but he had hitherto seen no plan of reform which was not fraught with danger to the liberties of the country.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 presented a petition from Church-Stretton, Salop, in favour of reform. He did not support the doctrine of annual parliaments and universal suffrage, but he would not contend that nobody else should. The spirit of the constitution allowed differences of opinion. Let that which was good be defended, and that which was wrong be defeated by argument. The report of the secret committee threw calumnies on the people of England. He would say, that a more loyal body did not exist than the people of the place whence this petition came.Mr. Bennet
644 rose for the purpose of presenting a petition which had been agreed to at a numerous meeting of the inhabitants of Westminster, held this day in Palace-yard, against the Bill for the Suspension of the Habeas Corpus act. He trusted that if time were given, petitions to the same effect would be presented from every part of the kingdom; and he took that opportunity to protest against the indecent and illegal way in which it was intended to pass this measure through the House. When it was considered that three months had elapsed since the time when this conspiracy was said to have been discovered; that it was three weeks since the committee had been
644Sir F. Burdett
645 said that, with respect to order and propriety, nothing could exceed what had been manifested at the Westminster meeting that day;—the conduct of the inhabitants of Westminster was on that occasion every way unimpeachable, and he had never witnessed any meeting of the citizens of Westminster which was not conducted with regularity and propriety. With regard to the subject of the petition, he must say, that out of the House there was no diversity of opinion as to the intention of a measure originating in that feeling which was attempted to be excited by his majesty's ministers —a feeling, however, which would not influence the people. He hoped and trusted the measure would fail in producing that effect which his majesty's ministers anticipated, namely, the preventing the people from giving free expression to their sentiments. If any thing more than an other would induce the people to express themselves in the strongest manner, it was a suspension like this, founded on a report, without the slightest evidence to support its statements; for in all former cases some evidence had been stated—the two last reports he believed were accompanied by some evidence. Being denied every access to the evidence laid before the committee, he did not see how the House could come to any decision on it. Without imputing any undue influence or any interested motives to the members of the committee (and he was sorry to say, the public mind was impressed with such an unfavourable idea), he hoped he might say thus much without any impropriety, that all men were capable of being deceived by ex-parte evidence. And when he knew that this ex-parte evidence was put into the green bag by those very persons who were interested in creating the alarm, by those who were interested in
645Lord Cochrane
 said, that he had never found one person of respectability in the country, who was not impressed with the danger to the constitution, from the mischievous principles so industriously disseminated among the working classes at the present moment. He had a pretty extensive circle of acquaintance, and he knew no person who did not entertain this opinion. He believed, that if the sense of the country were to be taken on the necessity of a suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, the petitions alluded to by the hon. baronet, would be met by counter petitions from nearly the whole of the more respectable part of society.Mr. Long Wellesley
647 said, that if, according to the hon. gentleman, there was but one sentiment entertained by the gentlemen of England on the subject which now occupied the attention of the House, he trusted they would meet, that parliament might know it. He should always bow to the decision of the majority of the people of England, however different their sentiments might be from his own. What he complained of was the attempt to suppress the voice of the people. He was astonished that those gentlemen who, from their rank and possessions, were most deeply interested in the prosperity and well-being of the country—those who used formerly to excite a feeling of patriotism in the country up to a very late period indeed, and who guided by their great judgment, their dignified conduct, and their talents, a people who were always anxious to listen to them and to bow to their opinion, even when their reason was not altogether convinced, should have estranged themselves from the people as they had lately done. He was sorry to see the change which had taken place. This country seemed now to be in a situation resembling that of so many countries on the continent. He need only allude to Spain, where it was very remarkable that those persons who had the greatest possessions and the greatest interest and stake in the country, as we called it, in all the great struggles seemed to have acted like the gentlemen of England, to have stood by and allowed others to fight, and to have obeyed every party which had the mastery for the time. The sentiments of a gentleman of the consequence of the hon. member must have much weight with the gentlemen of the country, and he trusted and hoped that it only required this to set them in motion, and to induce
647Sir F. Burdett
 asked the hon. baronet how he could possibly think of comparing the gentlemen of this country with those of Spain, as if they were alike in any respect whatever? That the gentlemen of England would sit still and see their country fought for by others, was what he had never heard before, and what he believed to be utterly unfounded. When they were called on to fight, they would always be found in the front of their countrymen. The hon. baronet regretted that all those bonds of union which formerly united them with the people were now broken; but this was a very unfair representation of the case; for if in any part those ties were broken, it was in those parts of the country alone to which the measures referred, and they had not been broken by the gentlemen, but by those who had an interest in breaking all bonds whatever, and in introducing disorder and confusion. He was astonished that the hon. baronet, a gentleman of great possessions and of an ancient family, extensively connected as he was in the country, and beloved, he had no doubt, by all who were connected with him, should express himself in the manner he had done. Why should he suppose that others were not equally beloved by those connected with them? Why should he suppose them indifferent to the wishes and feelings of those below them? Why should he give this picture of the gentlemen of England? Why should he hold them up in such an invidious light, merely because they thought it necessary to entrust extraordinary powers to government to enable them to arrest the machinations of those who were engaged in measures to subvert the constitution and government of the country [Hear, hear!]?Mr. Robinson
 denied that his hon. friend had accused the gentlemen of England of detaching themselves from the body of the people. He had only lamented their supineness, and brought no charge of any other kind. He had expressed his desire to see them cordially join, and wisely guide the sentiments and feelings of those over whom their rank and property gave them a natural influence; and he regretted that the legitimate direction which superior information and improved judgment would give them was not claimed or exercised.Sir Gilbert Heathcote
651650 observed, that the hon. member had totally mistaken what had been said by him. That hon. member seemed to have great hope and great faith —great hope that the Habeas Corpus act would be suspended, in which it was very probable that he would be gratified, and great faith when he believed it was the wish of the people that such a measure should take place. What was the sentiment of the people of England must be matter of opinion, and when a member expressed a conviction that the people of England were in favour of the proposed measure, there were no means of contradicting him, but by the assertion of a contrary opinion. He should only hint at what had been said by a member who had before spoken, that if the sentiments of the gentlemen of England were expressed, they would be very different from that of the
651650Sir F. Burdett
 said, that in the former debate, which was referred to, he had never made use of the word "degraded" as applied to any class of the people of England. He had drawn a consolatory reflection from the fact, that the treason did hot extend to the educated classes, but was confined to the suffering part of the people. He thence inferred that it would terminate without bad consequences; and it was to the treason itself, and the persons implicated in it, that, if at all, he had applied the word "degraded."Lord Castlereagh
 thought it could not be doubted that there was at this time a bad public spirit amongst individuals, who were anxious to take advantage of the general distress, and turn these meetings to their private and disaffected views. No man was more anxious than himself to support the liberties of his country; but he did not conceive it justifiable to take advantage of our momentary difficulties to assemble and make harangues to the multitude. In all countries and at all times there had been distress; but the times of distress formed the harvest of the disaffected. He lamented as much as any one the calamity that now afflicted the people, but to assemble at public meetings, and at such a time, to inflame the minds of the populace was a mode of conduct that roust meet with the reprobation of all who were entitled to the description of the gentlemen of the country.Mr. Somers Cocks
652 would have remained silent on the present occasion, had he not been called upon to make a reply to an observation that had fallen from a noble lord (Cochrane). That noble lord had called the report of the secret committee a libel on the people of England; what the noble lord meant by the word "libel," he could not take upon himself to say; but if he meant that in that report bad conduct or mischievous designs were attributed to the people of England, he was ready to give such a charge a flat denial. The report praised the principles, the temper, the conduct of the people generally. It was obliged to confess, that in
652Mr. Ponsonby
653 thought his right hon. friend had mistaken the noble lord, (Cochrane) when he supposed he accused; the members of the committee of partiality and prejudice. As to the other assertion of the noble lord, that the report was a libel on the people of England, he agreed that by inference it was a libel upon the people. What were the measures founded upon that report? A suspension of the Habeas Corpus, extending to the whole people of England, and a Gagging Bill equally extensive. If these measures arose out of that Report, did it not cast an imputation on the people of England by no means justified by fact? The hon. baronet, his worthy friend below him, had been misunderstood and misrepresented. What the hon. baronet had said had arisen from the wish expressed by an hon. member, to see the gentlemen of the country come forward on the subject. The hon. baronet though he differed as to what were probably the sentiments of the gentry, concurred in this wish, and lamented that gentlemen, who, by their learning and
653Lord Folkestone
 said, that the reasoning of the noble lord who had preceded him was of the most extraordinary kind. He had called the report a libel by inference on the people of England, and his inference was thus deduced—that measures affecting the whole people of England had been adopted in consequence of the Report. The Report, however, took especial care to except all the higher, almost all the middle, and all the agricultural classes from the charges which it made against some individuals. The Report suggested, that in consequence of the diseased state of the public mind, attempts were made to create disturbances among certain classes of the community, which it was necessary to counteract by legislative measures. Now, what measures could be devised, by all the noble lord's ingenuity, which should extend only to one class of the community? How could he distinguish the classes that were tainted from those who were not corrupted? A law might be confined to counties or hundreds, but if the noble lord proposed a law extending to the manufacturing class, or any other class exclusively, all his eloquence would fail to induce the House to adopt it.Mr. Law
664663l.662661l.,sine die.l.660659 began by returning thanks to the hon. baronet for the temperate and candid manner in which he had introduced his motion; and he owed it to the candour of the hon. baronet to state, that it certainly had not been in the contemplation of his majesty's ministers to submit any recommendation to the Prince Regent for the abolition of the offices now under consideration. Per-
664663l.662661l.,sine die.l.660659Lord Castlereagh
666 said, he did not think the question was one which ought to be decided abstractedly upon its own merits. The proposition of the hon. baronet was to considered as the ground work of a general system of reduction, and as such the House should consider it. They should recollect, that it was not merely the two officers of the admiralty, but the destruction of every office under government, which eloquence or ingenuity could represent as useless, that was aimed at. Let them, therefore, when the body of the place was attacked, beware how they gave up one single out-post. Let them not forget, that if they surrendered one out-work, they must weaken the defence of the whole— [Hear, hear!] Let them not imitate the weakest of the Roman-emperors, who, when they surrendered one province after another, said, "We can do without silks, we can do without spices," forgetting, however, that every foot of ground they abandoned must lead to the destruction of their empire. Let us not, therefore, imagine that we can do without two lords of the admiralty, lest the same fatal consequences should attend us. If we did this, we abandoned the principle on which our whole empire rested. On this breach we must take our stand; here we must fight the enemy. It was not so much for the advantage of ministers as for the interest of the country that he would wish these offices to be retained. Ministers, he thought, were by no means overpaid for the labours of their office; and if they did not find in the places now to be abolished some gratification for the dreadful responsibility and uneasiness to which they were subject, a responsibility and uneasiness under which the firmest minds had sometimes been broken down, no opposition would be desirous of taking possession of the offices of government. Would the House be willing to diminish the present influence of the crown? Would they again reduce it to that state of anarchy in which it was no longer able to maintain itself against a factious opposition? Considering that
666Mr. Law
668667 said, he would
668667The Hon. J. W. Ward
670**669seriatim. commenced by referring to the proceedings of the committee over which he had presided. It had, he said, been his anxious wish to have established there some distinct rule and general principle by which officers should be judged; in that attempt, however, he had been strenuously resisted by the noble lord opposite, who had contended, that it would be much wiser to examine each place separately, to suggest certain abolitions, and if others were proposed by the antagonists of ministers, to discuss them 670**669seriatim.Mr. Bankes
688687686685684§683682vetoveto.681quantumquantum680679678punctumsaliens677primâ facie676675674673672671 rose and said:688687686685684§683682vetoveto.681quantumquantum680679678punctumsaliens677primâ facie676675674673672671Mr. Canning
643 thought that the House would do well to follow up the system of economy and retrenchment recommended in the petition, if it wished to regain the character, which he regretted to say, it
643Mr. Barclay
 spoke in favour of the petition. He had received several communications from his constituents, which confirmed what had been said by the hon. gentleman, as to the stagnation of the wine trade, and the necessity of reducing the duties. He had heard a report, that it was the intention of his majesty's government to diminish these duties, and the report was so prevalent that he hoped it was true.Mr. Protheroe
694tu quoque.l.693692691phocœmarinœ690689 began by observing, that exhausted as he was by the debate of last night, and labouring under indisposition, nothing could have tempted him to rise upon the present occasion, but the security under which the right hon. gentleman had said he addressed the House, that every one had spoken who meant to speak, and that he should close the debate. Of this he had availed himself, to fly entirely away from the question; and in recalling the attention of the House to it, he (Mr. B.) should keep the promise which the right hon. gentleman had made of occupying only a small portion of their time. Upon almost any other occasion he should have been disposed to decline, as very much above his deserts, the compliment bestowed on him by the right hon. gentleman, that he stood in no need of prompting; but he must fairly own that at present he felt arrogant enough to accept of it, and to think that he required no assistance to answer the speech he had just heard beyond the speech itself, nor any prompter but the right hon. gentleman who made it. To what precise question he had addressed himself, or whose Arguments he had set himself to combat, might not easily be discovered; one thing was plain, he had avoided the question before the House and had answered none of the arguments maintained so triumphantly by the hon. baronet who opened the debate, and his hon. friend (Mr. Warre), who supported him with so much ability. The topics of the right hon. gentleman were wholly inapplicable to them; and the tone of his remarks and his declamation manifestly prepared for some speakers who had not borne a part (as perhaps was expected) in the discussion. What, for instance, could be more ridiculous than insinuating that the worthy baronet (sir M. W. Ridley) wished to attack the constitution under cover of this motion? Would any man say that such a charge could
694tu quoque.l.693692691phocœmarinœ690689Mr. Brougham
654 said, his mind had been much relieved by the construction affixed to the Report, by the hon. gentleman, for he took it for granted that the hon. gentleman would not have stood forward as a champion of the Report, without having read it. The House was now told that by "few, if any" was to be understood none. They were now absolutely told that none of the higher, none of the middle, none of the agricultural classes, were engaged in the disloyal associations, though the Report said, that few, if any of these classes were concerned. A new construction had thus been fixed upon words, which certainly in themselves were not sufficiently definite. He (Mr. Brougham) did not consider the Report a libel on the people of England, though it contained misrepresentations, and language highly exceptionable. But the measures proposed on it were not a libel—not a bill of indictment—but a sentence, and a most severe sentence against all the people of England. The people were not put upon
654Mr. Brougham
649 said, he totally differed from the hon. baronet, believing the opinion of the great majority to be in favour of the temporary suspension of the
649Mr. Gurney
l. stated that he had examined with care the naval estimates since 1685, and that, with the exception of the year 1691, in which probably, on account of death, the number of the lords had been reduced to six, the first article of those estimates had regularly been seven lords of the admiralty at 1,000l.Mr. Croker
quorum said, that no difference of opinion could be greater than that which he felt, and that which the hon. member who had just sat down had expressed. The hon. member had spoken very eloquently about breaches and outworks; but he greatly doubted whether ministers would be thankful for the hon. member's alliance on this occasion. He did not believe that they meant to abandon a single post, but he questioned whether they would thank the hon. gentleman for his fair and candid avowal of the military position they assumed. The noble lord had said, that a blow was levelled against one office only; but if the motion had been framed so as to include other offices, such as the commissioners of stamps, the commissioners of excise, or the postmasters, then the answer would have been, "Disentangle your question, and bring each of those offices separately before us." To urge an objection against a motion because it was clear, simple, and tangible, was certainly a novelty in that House. He was greatly surprised that the noble lord should resort to a course of recrimination, since he had found it avail him so little during the last session. He cared not what was done in former days: if former administrations had done wrong, it now became the House to do right. What was done years before bore so little on the question, that he thought they would not allow it to influence their decision. All the episodes of the noble lord were superfluous to the question. Of the lords of the admiralty, three of the sea, and one of the land lords, were efficient officers; but the other two offices were complete sinecures. As to the three officers who were to form a quorumMr. Warre
 observed, that a discussion had long been pending between the British and Portuguese governments, respecting two articles in the treaty of 1810. He understood that two points had been pressed by the British government: either the revision of the two artieles, or the annulling of the whole treaty, and formation of a second. He requested to be informed by the noble lord opposite whether the Portuguese government concurred in either of these points?Mr. Warre
641640 rose for the purpose of presenting a petition from a body of men so respectable, and involving a question of such importance to the revenue, that he felt it his duty to call the attention of the House to it. It was a petition from the wine merchants of the United Kingdom, praying that the duty on the importation of foreign wines might be diminished. It stated that a similar petition had been presented last session, which had produced no effect; that the wine trade was now almost at the lowest ebb, and if some abatement of the duties was not made, that its total ruin seemed inevitable. The only remedy was, to reduce
641640Mr. Sharp
 thought the report could not be declared a libel on the whole people of England. It said the great body of the nation was sound. What it said was not that the whole nation was infected, but that practices existed calculated to shake the foundation of social order.Mr. W. Elliot
 contended, that the proceedings of the committee should not be the same as those of parliament. The recommendation to abolish should come from the former, and the execution of the measure from the latter. If the offices pointed out in the motion were destroyed, the board of admiralty would be left in a crippled state, and incapable of any vigorous exertion.Mr. Huskisson
l.l. contended, that the board of admiralty ought to consist of naval persons, and that the salary of its members had at times varied from 1,000l.l.Sir C. Pole
658657s656655 rose, pursuant to notice, to move an address to his royal highness the Prince Regent, to remove such of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty as could be spared without detriment to the public service. In the address, with which he should have the honour to conclude his speech, he would not point out the number that might be reduced; but if the address was carried, would leave the determination of that point to the counsels of his Royal Highness. If he were required to deliver his own opinion he would say, that two might be reduced, leaving thus four to perform the effective duties of the Board. If ever there was a subject on which he was more reluctant to obtrude himself on the notice of the House than another, it was the present: and if ever there was a time when the consideration of it was more important than another, it was the present. The cry of retrenchment had resounded through all parts of the country; it had been echoed from one side of the House to the other, and all professed to have the same object equally at heart.
658657s656655Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, that he had that morning received a letter from one of his constituents, requesting him to support this petition, and stating that in the town he had the honour to represent, the wine trade had decreased one-half.Sir M. W. Ridley
l. stated, that the wine duties in Ireland had increased since 1802, in the proportion of from two to five; while the produce of that branch of revenue was last year less by 200,000l.Sir J. Newport
665 thought it proper, in consequence of a motion which he made last session, not to give a silent vote on this occasion; but it would not be necessary for him to detain the House long, as the speech of his hon. friend was so clear, so sensible, and so striking, and the answer of the noble lord so imperfect and unsatisfactory. It appeared to him, that whether there was to be a reduction in other offices or not was of little importance, provided it could be proved that a reduction might be made in the board of admiralty without injury to the public service. As to what the noble lord had said with respect to preparatory situations and a relaxation of duty, he most, perfectly agreed, that persons coming forward to the higher offices of the state, should be gradually introduced; but if seven lords of the admiralty could do the whole duty in time of war, it was not necessary to retain so many now, when the business was so greatly reduced. With regard to the outports, it was almost a useless branch in time of peace; and as far as concerned the necessity of two boards, it was very well known, that, as the board of admiralty was now constituted, questions were seldom put so as to come to a majority, the business of the board being generally considered to belong to the first lord. On the subject of sinecures, he thought that public services would be better rewarded by giving a pension than by creating a sinecure. The noble lord had referred to the influence of the crown, and as far as he was aware, the noble lord was justified in what he had stated respecting the promotion of the army and navy; but he had entirely left out the enormous increase of influence by the collection of the revenue. With regard
665Lord Althorp
698 presented a petition from Worcester, signed by 3,000 persons, in favour of Parliamentay Reform. The noble lord prefaced his motion for bringing up the petition, by expressing his regret that he had not been able to follow his own inclination, in being for some time a listener rather than a speaker in that House. He hoped, however, for their indulgence while he stated, that he should feel it his bounden duty to promote any plan which might secure a practical and salutary reform, but which should not infringe on that glorious constitution, which was at once the pride of England and the envy of the world. He would never listen to any chimerical schemes of universal suffrage and annual parliaments, the tendency of which was, in his opinion, to lead to open revolution. Born and educated in principles of constitutional loyalty, he would never sanction
698Lord Deerhurst
 said, that he should be wanting in his duty to the House and to his constituents, if he did not, on every occasion oppose the measure which was in contemplation for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus. He regretted that the noble lord (Castlereagh) and his right hon. colleagues did not attend in the early part of the evening to hear the salutary truths contained in the petitions of the people. For himself he would not shrink from his duty, nor bow to any minister, or any set of men whatever, and least of all could he consent to place additional power in the hands of a man who had originated measures of so diabolical a nature into the sister island. The noble lord had betrayed his own country—what, then, could be expected from him in this?Lord Rancliffe
 said, the information before the House was sufficient to warrant the measure which was this day to occupy the attention of the House. The right hon. baronet had strangely misconceived what he had said on a former evening relative to the acts of the 36th and 39th of the king. He believed that there was not the slightest difference of opinion between the learned gentlemen on the two sides of the House, respecting his statement, that the second branch of the act of the 39th of the king, applicable to Debating Societies, containing provisions referring for execution to the act of 1796, from the expiry of the latter act, had become inadequate, But he had justified the necessity of the bill on the larger ground of its being necessary from the present state of the country.Lord Castlereagh
 put it to the House whether they would proceed farther without calling on government to explain distinctly the fact, whether any of the higher orders were engaged in the conspiracy against government or not? If not one of the higher orders were engaged, be called on them, on their responsibility, to assert distinctly that it was so. He called on them also to say, whether any of the middling rank were engaged in the conspiracy. He had no hesitation in expressing his assent to the two bills for the security of the person of the Regent, and the punishment of the seduction of the soldiery; but when ministers also proposed the suspension of the liberties of the country, he was bound to pause. He did not belong to the country where the measures were to operate; but he wished to act towards Englishmen as he wished them to act on occasions when the liberties of his own country were at stake. He viewed the attempt against the person of the Regent, in common with all his friends around him, with the abhorrence which it deserved; but he believed the same dislike to it did not exist on the other side of the House as on this. He firmly believed that the enormous civil and military establishments which were at the command of government were quite commensurate to the repression of any dissatisfactions or disturbances if they should exist among the lower orders of the people.Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
707 expressed himself astonished at the charges which the hon. and learned gentleman had thought proper to heap up against his hon. friend. He was astonished, when he recollected that for several years that hon. gentleman had cooperated with his hon. friend, that he should never before have seen any thing disloyal in his conduct, or an inclination to support disloyalty in others—that he should have seen this now, and seen it for the first time. "Oh, but at that time he was of the same party." He recollected extremely well the time when the hon. and learned gentleman had entertained a more favourable opinion of his hon. friend—an opinion which he had never changed until he got to the opposite side of the House, closely pinned to the back of the right hon. gentlemen of the treasury bench [Hear! and laugh]. He would tell the hon. and learned gentleman, however, that his hon. friend was as loyal as he, or any of his proudest
707Mr. Ponsonby
708 was not satisfied with-the conduct of ministers at this time. Did they offer any reduction of their places, the unmerited emoluments of which excited so much disgust? He was sorry to say that their policy was of a different description. It was stated, that while the people pretended to seek reform, they intended to effect a revolution. He was of a different opinion. Twenty years ago he had voted for parliamentary reform, and he had no such intention, nor
708Sir Gilbert Heathcote
714s.l.,s.;l.713712711710ex parte709 said, he would oppose in every stage this arbitrary, impolitic, and uncalled-for measure. After what had passed in the House that night—after the statements of various members, and from various parts of the country, he was surprised that the noble lord opposite should move the first reading of this, bill as a matter of course. He was surprised that no defence was offered, that no explanation was given, that no facts were stated, for the purpose of inducing the House to enact a measure which suspended all the benefits of the constitution, which enslaved the country, and placed the liberty of every man in it at the disposal of ministers. If it could be shown that nothing else would save us but the measure in contemplation—if it could be proved that the ultimate security of the nation demanded a temporary suspension of its rights—if a case of strong and paramount necessity could be made out, lie would be the last man in the House or the country to oppose a concession of increased power to the government. But, he would ask, had any such case been made out? Had any danger demanding the proposed remedy been clearly substantiated? He had a few observations to make on the report as laying the ground of the powers claimed by ministers, in which he was anxious not to be misunderstood. He would not discredit that report, nor the members who composed the committee from which it originated, although he was surprised that his right hon. friend (Mr. Ponsonby) should have disgraced himself by accepting of a place in it, and sitting in the same com-
714s.l.,s.;l.713712711710ex parte709Mr. Bennet
 spoke to order. He felt it his duty to call upon the hon. member to state which individual member of the present government had criminally imbrued his hands in the blood of his country?Lord Castlereagh
 said, he charged the members of his majesty's government, in their official situations, with having before called for the very same powers which they now required, and with having abused the trust then reposed in them, and afterwards covered their misconduct with a bill of indemnity.Mr. Bennet
 I have then to say that if it has been asserted that I ever criminally imbrued my hands in the blood of my country, the hon. member has stated that which is false.Lord Castlereagh.
 wished to know the nature of the imputed criminality. If he had been guilty of a crime of the nature of that ascribed (as he had understood) to him, it was that which no bill of indemnity could cover. He therefore repeated, if such conduct had been imputed to him, the hon. member had stated a falsehood.Lord Castlereagh
 submitted that it was open for the hon. gentleman to explain the words he had used. At present it appeared he had brought a criminal charge against the noble lord. It must be understood there was a wide difference between a charge of criminality, and a charge of having done that which was merely illegal. An act that was illegal might be justified, and a bill of indemnity given as soon as it was asked. It was very different where criminality was charged. If the hon. gentleman, having asserted this, meant to keep to his words, he ought to name a day on which he would bring the subject under the consideration of the House, and endeavour to make the charge out. If, however, he only meant to say, that the noble lord, as a member of the government, had been a party to measures which made it necessary that a bill of indemnity should subsequently be called for, in that case he should hope the language which had been used, might be passed over, as having unintentionally fallen from him in the heat of debate.Mr. Yorke
716 however much he might regret that the charge should have been made at all, if he had heard the hon. gentleman correctly, he had not directed it personally against the noble lord, but against his majesty's government. He might have misunderstood his hon. friend, but the impression made upon his mind was, that he objected to trust the power now called for in the hands of ministers, who had already imbrued their hands in the blood of their country. It sometimes occurred, that a long debate took place on language used by an hon. member,
716Mr. Wynn,
717 rose, in order to comply with the wish just expressed by the Chair
717Mr. Bennet
 when he interrupted the hon. member, had thought the charge which he had made was directed personally against him. Now that he had heard the hon. gentleman say life meant it generally against the government of which he was a member, he had no cause to complain. He was satisfied the hon. member had not retracted any thing that as a man of honour lie had asserted and was bound to maintain. He had no right personally to object to any charge which the hon. gentleman might think proper to bring against that administration, but he had no hesitation in saying that the charge of cruelty if preferred against it, was false. In doing this, however, he meant no offence to the hon. gentleman, and he trusted the course he was taking was not disorderly. The hon. gentleman, he thought, could not complain on the present occasion, as in describing the charge in question to be false he did not deal more harshly with that, than the hon. gentleman had dealt with the report of the committee, which had the sanction of so many of the hon. gentleman's friends, who indeed were parties to it.Lord Castlereagh,
718 had not charged ministers
718Mr. Bennet
 again spoke to order. The hon. gentleman was again speaking to facts alleged to have occurred in Ireland. If the hon. gentleman was disposed to make these the subject of discussion on any future day, he should be ready to meet and to answer the accusation now insinuated; but he would appeal to the House, and to the feelings of the hon. gentleman himself, if the peace of the country ought thus to be trifled with, and if it was right that the characters of public men should thus be assailed by insinuations mixed up with other matter.Lord Castlereagh
 avowed, that he did not mean to pursue the subject; but as the noble lord had met his charge of cruelty with a negative, he thought himself called upon to state some facts in justification of his conduct in making it. Pie might have been betrayed into too great a warmth of feeling, and might have used violent expressions, which he was sure the House would excuse. He meant to say, and he persisted in the declaration, that it would be fatal to public liberty to put the powers which the bills before the House would convey if they passed into acts, into the hands of men who had formerly possessed them, and who had outraged the rights of the people, and notoriously abused their trust. He therefore should feel it his duty to oppose this bill in every stage.Mr. Bennet
 believed, that this was the first time in the history of parliament, that a bill sent from the Lords to that House had been objected and argued against, without its being read. How was it possible its contents could be ascertained by the House? He objected to this mode of proceeding, and entreated the House to suffer itself to be informed upon the subject.Mr. Yorke
727726725724723 could not think there was much weight in the first objection raised against the committee of secrecy, —that his noble friend (lord Castlereagh) was one of its members. The hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Bennet) had seemed to be surprised that a right hon. gentleman near him, one of his own friends (Mr. Ponsonby) could venture to sit in the same chamber with the noble lord. If, indeed, he really thought the right hon. gentleman could have any difficulty in doing this, if he thought his right hon. friend could not but suspect the motives of the noble lord, he (Mr. Robinson) could draw no other inference from the unanimity which had ultimately prevailed on the subject of the report than this, that that report had been extorted by the weight of evidence which had been submitted to the committee. For he could not think where it was supposed such grounds for jealousy existed, that any thing would have brought their labours to such a termination, but the conviction that the allegations set forth in the report were thoroughly justified by the facts which had been disclosed. If he stated this to be the impression that he had, it would be saying but little, as it might be supposed that he had gone into the committee with a bias on his mind, which naturally inclined him to take this view of
727726725724723Mr. Robinson
730**729 of Scotland said, he should not trouble the House at any length, but there were some circumstances that had come within his knowledge, which he felt it his duty to communicate. In that part of the Island where he resided, his attention had been called so early as last November, to the efforts that were assiduously made for disseminating publications which contained the most reprehensible matter, though not of such a nature as authorized him to bring the subject under the cognizance of a court of law. The object of those publications was, to familiarise the minds of the people with a contempt for the heads of the government, with a contempt for the government itself, and with a contempt for that House. It was endeavoured to make the manufacturing classes, who were out of work, instruments in the hands of designing persons, to overturn the government. Petitions also were sent down to Scotland, especially to those districts where the manufacturers had no employment; and along with those petitions, speeches ready made, to be delivered at public meetings that were to be convened. Intelligence was received that a settled system prevailed for inflaming the discontented and distressed into open violence. Directions were accordingly given to watch those persons who had been conspicuous in the seditions of 1795; and early in January information came, that secret meetings were held in Glasgow, by those very individuals. He was further informed, that a secret conspiracy was organized
730**729The Lord Advocate
 of Scotland explained. He said it was only that morning that his majesty's government had thought it advisable to publish the oath which he had read to the House.The Lord Advocate
735734 expressed his regret that parliament had not been earlier assembled to meet the difficulties with which ministers were undoubtedly surrounded. That the spirit of turbulence had not subsided was evident from daily experience; and only that morning he had seen posted a handbill with the inflammatory title of "The Triumph of Justice over Unjust Judges." He was convinced that, had government been more alert, the police might have been placed upon such a footing as to render the aid of the military necessary only in extreme cases; but no investigation of the subject had been instituted, and it might become the duty of parliament to interpose; indeed, upon a late occasion it had been his wish that the House should have taken the punishment of certain civil officers who had been grossly negligent of their duty into its own hands. He complained that efforts had been equally
735734Mr. Wynn
742741 considered that the evil now proposed must be resorted to, in order to prevent a greater evil. He agreed that it was necessary, before a law was passed on this subject, to see what the existing laws were; for if the present laws were perfectly sufficient to prevent the evil, it was improper to have recourse to new measures. He denied, however, that the laws were sufficient to protect the country against the dangers which now threatened it. The House did not before suspend the Habeas Corpus act, because there were not laws in existence: he took upon him to say, that that act had been suspended from time to time, though every law stood upon the statute book as it now did. With respect to the observation, that the law officers had not commenced prosecutions; if the existing laws were not sufficient, the neglect of the law officers was no reason why new measures should not be resorted to. As for himself, neither in that House, nor out of that House, should he be deterred from doing his duty from the fear of any reproach or censure that might be cast upon him. The law officers, he maintained, were not justified in commencing prosecutions till they found sufficient evidence to ensure their success. One of the evils of a free constitution was this—that we had no means of preventing crimes, but only of punishing them when they were committed. Prosecutions however had now been instituted; and many persons would have been prosecuted before, if the necessary evidence could have been furnished to the Crown. As far as his judgment went, no prosecution could be maintained against the societies, from the manner in which they were constituted. His hon. friend had said, that none of the higher classes were implicated in these crimes; but he begged leave to state, that the conspiracies, such as these, were not the less dangerous because they were conducted by the lower orders only. A multitude of the lower classes congregated together, was often more dangerous and ferocious than if it were under the control and direction of some of the higher orders. But low, and weak, and ignorant, as these conspirators might be thought to be, he could assure the House that there were, however, such marks of continuity, of skill, contrivance, and ingenuity in their designs, as would do honour to wiser heads, if they were employed in a better cause. If there was no master workman behind to move these
742741The Solicitor General
 contended, that there was sufficient evidence of danger to justify the measure. The report of the committee showed the existence of extensive associations for the purpose of undermining the principles on which the fabric of society was founded; and it was the duty of the legislature to provide the means of preventing the evils that were to be apprehended, rather than to leave them to be put down by force.Mr. Courtenay
ex post facto,752751750749748747 complimented the noble lord who preceded the last speaker. The name of Russell was dear to every Englishman; and it was peculiarly gratifying to hear the noble lord, with so much manliness and ability, supporting those rights in the defence of which his reverend ancestor lost his life. He was anxious to make a few observations on what had fallen from an hon. and learned gentleman on the other side, in one part only of whose speech he could agree, namely, that in which the hon. and learned gentleman asserted that the proposed measure was not brought forward for the purpose of strengthening the Crown. Neither, he was persuaded would it be beneficial to the people. In his opinion it was calculated solely for the benefit of the ministers, who having brought the country into inextricable difficulties, found a general demand for retrenchment of their profligate expenditure. The extravagance of which ministers had been guilty, was ten-fold more destructive of the landed: property of the kingdom, than the newlyraised and visionary mischief apprehended; from the disciples of a weak man who died twenty years ago, who never dreamed that, he should make such a noise in the world, and from whose absurd tracts no real danger could ever be anticipated. The Expencean party, as he would deno-
ex post facto,752751750749748747Sir F. Burdett
 said, that the question before the House, practically speaking, lay within very narrow limits. He should therefore take very little notice of the speech of the hon. baronet who spoke last, further than to say that with all the respect which he felt for the rank and talents of that hon. baronet—talents which had not been impaired even by the society which he had during the latter years frequented, that he must be excused for saying, that it would seem from his speech that the salvation which the hon. baronet wished for the constitution would prove its destruction, and that what the hon. baronet had that night said within the walls of the House must be considered not so much addressed to parliament as to certain persons in another place [Loud cries of Order, order!].Lord Castlereagh
 rose, amidst reiterated cries of question, to state, that he had quite made up his mind as to the course ministers were running, which would bring the country to ruin. He would give his humble opinion, that it was the duty of that House and of the country to petition for the removal of the present ministers. The question lay between military despotism and the dangers and distresses of the country. With respect to his opinions, he would own, that he had experienced a sort of malicious satisfaction at seeing, for ten years past, that the hopes of the opposition were disappointed by their being kept out of power. He was now, however, decidedly of opinion, that their restoration to place and power was the only means of giving us a chance of escaping degradation and ruin. As to that part of the evidence which had been brought forth that night, and at first, he supposed, intended to be secret, it did not appear how the document was come by. Was it from the arrested persons? The individual who produced it might himself in doing so have been guilty of perjury, and might therefore deserve no credit. Such an individual was capable of any thing. The report as it stood was worthless. There should be a change in men in order to effect a change of measures, if we wished to avoid despotism, degradation, and ruin.Lord Cochrane
 denied having imputed to the hon. baronet the design of inflaming the passions of the people. What he had said was, that on this, as well as on former occasions, the speech of the hon. baronet was not intended to convince the minds of that House, but to produce an effect elsewhere.— [Cries of Order, order! Chair, chair!]Lord Castlereagh
755754 said, that the decision of the Chair should always regulate his conduct. He could only say that the general feeling in the House seemed to be, that the hon. baronet's speech was such as he had described it. The substance of that speech, the attempt in it to treat with ridicule the present alarming state of the country, was only consistent with the hon. baronet, who had many years ago, during the late war, endeavoured to ridicule those treasons, which if they had been treated as lightly by parliament as they had been by the hon. baronet, the constitution would long ago have been overturned, and that House would now have lain prostrate, the victim of treason and rebellion, under the mask of reform. He begged pardon for having detained the House on a subject foreign to the question before it. But, really, it was matter for serious consideration to find the dangers which now threatened the country talked lightly of—to hear even ridicule endeavoured to be thrown on the attempts against the person of his royal highness the Prince Regent—attempts of a nature so criminal, so abhorrent to human nature, as scarcely to be credited as having been made in any civilized country—to hear those plots attempted to be made the subject of laughter which threatened the subversion of the constitution, and which had threatened the lives and properties of the people of England. And this was done too, when the truth of all that was contained in the Report—when the existence and the
755754Lord Castlereagh
757756 began by stating the hardships under which he laboured, in being obliged, not only to combat the gentlemen opposite, but also the charge of imbecility brought against him by his hon. friends around and behind him. He could assure those who thought him weak, that all his faculties, such as they were, were as perfectly enjoyed by him when he sat in the secret committee, as ever they had been in the whole course of his life. He consented to go into that committee, because he considered it a public duty, standing, as he did, at the head of a respectable body of gentlemen in that House as the person in whom they could confide. If he had refused the offer of going into the committee to see the evidence on which such reports of danger to the state and government of the country were founded, he should have considered himself culpable. When he had first heard intentions attributed to the persons alluded to in the report, he was of the same opinion with that which some others now entertained, but he was afterwards fully convinced that absurd and nonsensical as the thing might appear, it was actually true. It was very unlikely that he should agree with the hon. baronet on the subject of parliamentary reform, but he had never heard any speech of that hon. baronet less liable to the imputation of the noble lord, than his speech of to-night. It was one of great ability—it contained nothing objectionable—nothing unparliamentary—and if the noble lord had acted wisely, he would neither have coped with that speech, nor quarrelled with him who made it. He believed the powers vested in the government of the country at present sufficient to keep the peace of the country without this measure; and one main ground for that belief was the fact communicated by the lord advocate, of the having seized on the central committee of Union at Glasgow. Having, therefore, got possession of the whole extent of the insurrection, in so far as Glasgow was concerned, it must be owing to their own imbecility if they did not at once completely crush it. He hoped the law would be allowed to take
757756Mr. Ponsonby
 I certainly apprehend it to be the rule to consider all speeches delivered in this House as addressed to the House only.The Speaker.
 apprehended the point of order depended on this question: did the hon. member mean to charge his majesty's ministers in the aggregate with imbruing their hands in the blood of their country, or with other acts of criminality, or did he make this charge against one individual of the government? If the charge was made against the ministers in the aggregate, there was no breach of order; but if it was against one individual, then there was a direct departure from those rules which governed the debates in that House. The hon. member would perhaps be good enough to satisfy the House, in which sense his words were to be taken.The Speaker
746Would use his heav'n for thunder; nothing but thunder!"For every pelting petty officer,As Jove himself does, Jove would ne'er be quiet;"Could great men thunder,745744à priori743 rose and said: —746Would use his heav'n for thunder; nothing but thunder!"For every pelting petty officer,As Jove himself does, Jove would ne'er be quiet;"Could great men thunder,745744à priori743Lord John Russell
753 was sorry to interrupt the noble lord, but as long as he had a seat in that House, he would never refrain from
753Lord Stanley
758 opposed the bill. Ministers, he said, had known of the mischiefs long enough before. They knew of the proceedings in October, November,
758Lord Stanley
705704703 said, as the district in which he resided had been particularly referred to in the report of the secret committee, as one of those in which treasonable conspiracies against the constitution and government of the country were carried on, he thought it necessary to trespass on the attention of the House, while he stated the result of his own observations in that district. From the termination of last session to the commencement of the present, he had resided constantly in that part of the country, and he could not fail, certainly, to have a great desire to make himself acquainted with the situation of the district. He found the distress so great that no man, who had not lived in the manufacturing districts could possibly have a conception of it. To adopt one phrase of the report of the secret committee "few, if any," in these districts were fully employed,—few if any, of those who were employed, could maintain themselves—and those who could obtain sub-
705704703Mr. Philips
 said, the hon. and learned gentleman had richly merited the castigation which had been inflicted on him by his right hon. friend. He had been relieved from taking further notice of one part of the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman, that part in which he had called the emissaries of sedition the friends of his hon. friend, thanks to the sober sense of the hon. and learned gentleman, when brought to his recollection by his right hon. friend. But there was another part of the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman on which he had given a misrepresentation of a fact stated by his hon. friend. That fact was most important, coming as he did, from the vicinage which was said to be disturbed; and he hoped that the testimony of his hon. friend would, on that account, have that weight which it ought to have. The hon. and learned gentleman had stated, that in Staffordshire the distress was as great as at Manchester; and he wished that the people of Manchester had only behaved as well. But his hon. friend's testimony went to this, that Manchester and its neighbourhood were in a state of the most perfect tranquillity—that every thing was so still, that one might, to use a homely expression, almost say, "you might hear a rat stir." [A laugh.]Mr. Brougham
 perfectly agreed in the sentiments of his hon. friend and of his constituents. A more flagitious and indecent proceeding never took place within those walls, than the attempt to hurry such a measure as the suspension of the Habeas Corpus through the House, on grounds such as those stated in the report of the committee of secrecy. He highly applauded the notice given by his hon. friend. His majesty's ministers could not complain of any undue advantage being taken of them by any such motion, when they recollected that although this week they were in so great a hurry, they last week—in one instance, for a party purpose, and in the other to suit private convenience—lost two whole days in that House. After that, they had no right to contend that time pressed with respect to this important subject. The best course that his hon. friend could adopt, would be (after the present petition should be disposed of) to move that the order of the day for the first reading of the bill be read for the purpose of deferring it until this day se'nnight, and then to move that on that day the House should be called over.Mr. Brougham
 agreed with the right hon. gentleman that the present discontents arose out of the distress of the country; and when he mentioned reformers as taking advantage of that distress, he did not class them all under the same head; there were among them some high and respectable individuals: whether their measures were prudent, he would not now discuss, but he believed their intentions correct. There was, however, another class of reformers not so well disposed: these men did not find an opportunity for pressing the subject at all times; when things went well, we heard nothing of them, but when distress had already excited discontent, they were ever roost clamorous. Some of the latter description had certainly taken advantage of the present calamities; they assembled parties under the pressure of want, and told them, if they signed petitions for reform, their wants would be relieved; having signed, they might be considered as enlisted under the banners of those reformers; and many of them, after a first enlistment, were led on by degrees to go farther. But he believed the people themselves, who suffered, were sound; and, if they knew whither their leaders were going, would probably stop short. Most sincerely he wished the legislature could relieve their distresses. It was true, great future advantages would be derived from the pursuit of economy; but as to any effectual immediate relief, it was out of the compass of human power to afford it. We must, therefore, look on to further distress, and the continuance of it; the minds of the people would be worked up by those who had designs of their own to involve all in deeper ruin. The object of the bill, therefore, which had his support was not injuriously to affect the lower orders, but to preserve them from being led astray by those delusions that were set as a snare to entrap them into their own destruction.Lord Lascelles
 in explanation, said, he was not aware that he had attributed any thing unconstitutional to the hon. gentleman, or stated that he was connected with disloyal persons. [Several members here cried out, "you called them his friends"]. He was sorry that he had unguardedly made use of such an expression. The hon. gentleman opposite was the last person to whom he should attribute any improper views.Mr. Wrottesley,
d.s.706 was sorry the grand question had been thus anticipated, as it could lead to no good. But the hon. member opposite (Mr. Philips) had given a description of the state of Manchester,
d.s.706Mr. Wrottesley
701 declared, that he had sat in that House when a measure similar to that now proposed was discussed by some of the greatest men that ever were within its wails, and that however widely those individuals differed from one another on the subject, no one had ever exhibited so scandalous a want of feeling for the liberties of the country, as that which had been just displayed. He could not but deeply regret that the hon. alderman opposite should think the present a fit subject for laughter. He gave credit to the noble lord by whom the measure had been introduced into parliament, for the declaration, that it was
701Mr. Curwen
 presented a petition from the inhabitants of' Nottingham against the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act. The petitioners said that they were grossly calumniated in a report that they had seen in the public papers, as coming from a Secret Committee of that House, and which represented them as seditious, disaffected, and treasonably disponed. He did think it might have been possible to give some of the evidence before that committee without the names, in order that it might be seen what proofs were offered of such charges being applicable to the people of that or any other part of the country. The petitioners, however, distinctly denied the charge against them.Mr. John Smith
722721 of Cambridge, said, he had waited with great attention upon the reasoning of ministers and their advocates, to discover any thing like an adequate reason for the adoption of the violent and dangerous measures now proposed in the shape of a bill for suspending the constitution, for shutting up the mouths of his fellow-subjects, groaning under the weight of their taxations and sufferings. Their hypothesis he could not allow. They took it for granted that the country was in that alarming state of insubjugation that called for these measures; and a right hon. gentleman (Mr. Canning) had said on a former night, that it was matter of historical notoriety how frequently the active few had overpowered the heedless many, and effected by this activity the overthrow of powerful states, in despight of the wishes of the greater part of the population of such countries. The argument, he must observe, bore strongly
722721Mr. Smyth,
 said, it certainly did strike him that the hon. gentleman had used the word "criminal." Whether the application of such language to the noble lord or to the government could or could not be justified, he would not stop to inquire: but at all events it had appeared to him that the word was not applicable to that with which the hon. gentleman had connected it. He did not think it could be used to mark that which he meant to express. What he intended to charge the noble lord and the government with, was clearly this, that they had done that under the law for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, for which it was necessary that a bill of indemnity should be brought in to screen them from the consequences. Now, saying this, he could not mean to accuse them of any thing criminal, as that would not be comprehended in the act of indemnity, which only protected them from actions which might otherwise be brought against them, on account of things done while the Habeas Corpus act was suspended.Mr. Brand
720719‡ rose to explain the grounds on which he should feel it his duty to give his vote. He did not come to the decision without serious regret. He should vote for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, with a full conviction that he was parting for a time with the great safeguard of our liberties. He should give his vote with reluctance, but he decided as he had done, because, in the balance of evils between a temporary suspension of our rights and the endangering their ultimate security, the former was the least formidable. He had only to choose between evils. He was anxious to show the reasons why he thought so; but he was sensible that in enlarging upon them he should merely be going over topics already discussed. He would vote for the suspension, therefore, because he thought every establishment that was connected
720719‡Mr. Frankland Lewis
699 declared, that his constituents and himself were most hostilely disposed towards the suspension of the Habeas Corpus, a measure which had never before been resorted to in peace, except once, when the circumstances of the times were very different from those of the present period. He hoped that at least the second reading of the bill would be postponed for a week, in order that the House might be called over, and that the people
699Mr. Madocks
 declared his most decided disapprobation of the proposed measure. With respect to the three other bills, he thought that for rendering more penal the seduction of the military, and that for putting the person of the Regent on the same footing in point of protection as that of his majesty, extremely proper. On the third for the better suppression of seditious societies, he was not so clear, and should reserve his opinion. He confessed his surprise at the declaration made by the hon. aldermen who had moved that the petition should lie on the table. Did he really hear that hon. alderman declare, that in every sentiment and expression of that petition he totally disagreed with his constituents?Mr. W. Smith
 expressed his regret that he had so; and said that he was in hopes the hon. alderman would have taken the opportunity that be had afforded him of giving a more satisfactory explanation of his opinions.Mr. W. Smith
700 had no difficulty in stating that the three bills—for extending to the Prince Regent the protection afforded by law to his majesty's person, for more effectually punishing any attempts to tamper with the military, and for preventing seditious meetings—seemed to him to be measures well deserving the attention of the House. But with respect to the proposed suspension of the Habeas Corpus, he declared most solemnly and conscientiously that, after all the attention which he could; possibly bestow on the opening speech of the noble lord, and on all which he had since heard, he did not see that any ground had been laid for such a proceeding. If
700Sir James Shaw
739738737736 would not long occupy the attention of the House, but he could not prevail upon himself to give a silent vote upon the most important question that had been discussed since he had had a seat in parliament. All parties were agreed upon the inestimable value of that part of the constitution which it was proposed for a time to annul: and there were few that denied that at present great evils existed, and that those evils required a speedy remedy. The question was therefore reduced to a very narrow compass, viz. Was this a case in which it was necessary to have recourse to such a remedy, and was the remedy adapted to the nature of the evils? The first point must depend upon a preliminary question, whether other means had been duly resorted to, and whether those means had failed of success? The noble lord had repeatedly declared, that the utmost vigilance of ministers had been exerted; but it was now quite clear, from subsequent intelligence, that that ut most vigilance, in truth amounted to nothing. It was admitted by the noble lord, that these traitorous designs bad been proceeding for a considerable time befere the aid of parliament was required; yet, although ministers had been fully apprized of the attempts upon the loyalty, the morals, and the religion of the people; though they had been in possession of the libellous and blasphemous publications so industriously circulated among the lower orders; yet up to the present moment, not a single prosecution had been instituted against the authors. The excuse of the attorney-general for this procrastination was most extraordinary and curious: in truth, he said, the libels laid before him were so numerous, that he
739738737736Sir Samuel Romilly
702 said, it would be in the recollection of the House, that the noble lord had urged the necessity of the House agreeing to one of his measures, because part of an act passed in the year 1799 had been done away with by the expiry of another act passed in the year 1796. A respectable law authority on his side of the House had, however, declared, that the act of 1799 was not done away with; and he had heard nothing from the law authorities on the other side which seemed to him to have any weight. But,
702Sir John Newport
—You heard me very right [a laugh].Sir W. Curtis
 was astonished that any member should have charged him with any thing like levity in any thing that he had said or done in the House that evening. He was not accountable for the laugh of the House. He had not himself shown any degree of levity, but merely stated that his sentiments differed totally from those in the petition.Sir W. Curtis
 in moving that it should lie on the table, said, that he would declare to the House, what he had that morning declared in the common council, that he disapproved of every sentiment and expression of the petition.Sir W. Curtis,
728 considered it almost impossible for any man to argue fairly on the present question without some knowledge of the facts upon which the report was founded. With respect to the amount of the apprehended danger, there certainly was room for much diversity of opinion; and it could not, he thought, be denied, that the absurdity of a doctrine was at least one circumstance against the probability of its success. When called upon to legislate in former emergencies, some men of note were, or were supposed to be, participators in the conspiracy: here it was admitted by the report, that there were few, and according to the new construction of it, none of that description, who were even remotely connected with it. In the present case, if one obscure delinquent were removed, it never could be discovered whether he had not an equally obscure successor. The only circumstances which he had ever known that could justify such a. measure, were those which took place in the year 1795. To some of the minor and subsidiary measures of the noble lord he had no objection, for he disliked all public meetings convoked by unknown or anonymous authority; but he was decidedly hostile to a suspension pf the Habeas Corpus act, under the existing
728Lord Althorp
733732731 said, he felt no regret at a charge made against him that he had been duped by the papers laid before the committee of secrecy. He still retained his opinion as to the nefariousness of certain designing persons in the country, nor did he want the assertion of the learned lord to convince him of the dangerous nature of the proceedings of the disaffected. He was, indeed, considerably surprised at the course taken by that learned lord, for if he recollected right, the members of the committee of secrecy had, at the express request of that learned person, agreed to expunge from their report the oath which he had now divulged. This was extraordinary, and required explanation. He did not know, however, but circumstances might since have arisen to render its publication less likely to prove detrimental to the public service [Hear, hear! from ministers]. Still it looked like a coup de main, and as if the oath had been kept out of view to be brought forward on the present occasion [No, no! from ministers]. He had stated before, that he had no doubt of the nefarious objects of many designing men throughout the country; but he denied that the intentions of such persons, however wicked, were a sufficient ground for removing the great bulwark of our liberties. It was not sufficient to say, that bad men had, in their vain imaginations, contemplated the overthrow of the government; for when was the time that some persons did not exist whose desperate folly or wickedness would lead them to subvert all established order? It ought to be made out, that the danger likely to
733732731Lord Milton
715 rose to order. He anxiously hoped the business between the hon. gentleman and the noble lord
715Lord Milton
 supported the motion, and thought the amendment would be very useful.Sir C. Burrell
 wished to wait for the report of the committee, who had in view a total alteration and simplification of the law of settlements.Mr. Lockhart
 was of a similar opinion.Sir C. Monck
 replied, that the extensive alterations to which the committee looked must be a work of time, in the mean time why not remove a partial but pressing evil? He appealed to an hon. baronet, the chairman of the East Kent sessions, if a large number of the cases in the court where he presided did not turn upon cow tenements, and observed, that when a more extensive amelioration was Found, if it could be found, this might be superseded as unnecessary; but let it operate as long as it was wanted.Sir Egerton Brydges
 confirmed this statement: and expressed his approbation of the objects of the bill, adding, that if, on the bill being printed, there should be any thing in it to render it adviseable to wait the report of the committee, it might then be suspended.Sir E. Knatchbull
764763ex-parte presented a petition from George Edmonds, chairman of the Birmingham Hampden-club, denying that the assertions in the report of the Secret Committee, relative to the Hampden-club were true, and expressing his confidence that, if the House would be pleased to call him to their bar, and hear his evidence, he could convince them that those assertions rested on an 764763ex-parteLord Cochrane
 held in his hand a Petition, which, as the language of it was respectful to that House, he thought it was his duty to present, though, he begged to say, he had not known, till within these few days, that the individual from whom it came was in existence. It was from a person of the name of Evans, lately residing in Newcastle-street, but now a prisoner in the House of Correction, on a charge of high treason. It set forth, that in the year 1798 the petitioner was arrested under a warrant, signed by the late duke of Portland, committed to prison, and kept in confinement three years. While in such confinement he was denied all access to, or intercourse with his friends; and further, which was a severe punishment, as he understood the petitioner to be a literary man, he was not permitted to read or write. He saw no one, but was shut up in a solitary cell during the whole of that period. In consequence all his prospects were ruined, and he had, in a great measure, subsisted on the charity of the late sir R. Ford. On the 9th of the present month the petitioner had been arrested, with his son, on a charge of high treason. He denied being concerned in, or privy to any treasonable practices. He stated himself to be librarian to the Spencean Society, but he most solemnly denied that the society was connected with any body of men who entertained designs against the state, or that he or them had interfered on the subject of the public grievances and parliamentary reform. The prayer of the petitioner was, that the bill for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act might not be passed into a law, as he feared, if this were done, he might again be placed under it, in the situation he had described, as he was when the Habeas Corpus act was formerly suspended.Mr. Bennet
766 in present-
766Sir F. Burdett.
 said, the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, was a measure which must command the attention of every man who had any regard for the British constitution. He had, he might say, a sort of superstitious reverence for that sacred act. This the bill he had recently brought in would he thought go to prove. He, however, could not say that the petition before the House had altered the opinion which he had previously formed. He thought there was an imperious necessity for passing the act.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 said, the hon. and learned gentleman who had last spoken, had shown that there was a danger at present, but he had not shown how its effects would be obviated by a suspension of the Habeas Corpus. There might be very conscientious differences of opinion on the present question. If there was no choice between a surrender of the liberties of the country for a time, and a great danger of losing them for ever, he should have no hesitation in preferring the former alternative; but he believed, on the best consideration he could give the subject, that the danger had been much over-rated. The precaution in such cases should be commensurate with the danger. He remembered when once at sea the captain ordered the dead lights to be put up, to prevent the possibility of danger. When the women, who were passengers, heard the order, they were so frightened that the precaution was likely to produce upon them consequences as bad as those which it was intended to prevent. He thought we might ride out our present storm—if not without putting up the dead lights, at least without throwing away the sheet anchor. A measure so extraordinary as that which was proposed, would produce much unnecessary alarm on the public mind. Many persons would judge of the magnitude of the danger by the measures taken to avert it, and some loyal subjects would hardly sleep sound in their beds. Neither was it alarm only, but discontent which the measure was calculated to produce. Englishmen were accustomed to consider the Habeas Corpus act as the law which gave them privileges and distinction above all other nations; and to suspend it, could not but afford food for dissatisfaction, and it would, no doubt, be taken advantage of by the evil-disposed to increase the disaffection which unhappily was but too prevalent in the minds of the people. It was to be remembered also, that as yet the House had to sit probably several months, and the House would have it in its power, if the other measures had no avail, to grant the power which the executive now demanded. There would, indeed, have been much greater reason for passing the bill before them, if parliament had been on the eve of prorogation. At present he should think it his duty to vote against the measure.Mr. Marryat
773† rose to answer a question which was put to him by the hon. and respectable member as to the conduct of his noble relative (lord Sidmouth) at a former period. When his noble relative then came into office, he found the country in a state which convinced him that the measures, giving additional power to the executive, which had passed during a former administration, were no longer necessary, and under that conviction he proposed their repeal. So far the hon. member was right. But the hon. member omitted to state how soon after those measures were repealed, it was found necessary to renew those measures. A committee was appointed at that time, from whose report it appeared, that immediately after the liberation of the individuals who had been confined, they met and celebrated their release, drank
773†Mr. Bathurst
 was surprised at the course taken by the last speaker. He had referred the House for what he called his superstitious reverence for the Habeas Corpus act, to a bill which he had brought into that House, and which, after much opposition in another place, had passed into a law; but now having made the Habeas Corpus act more valuable to the nation than ever it was before, he showed his superstitious reverence for it by voting in favour of its suspension. Under these circumstances, he could only wish, that instead of a superstitious reverence, he had had merely a reasonable reverence for it, as in that case it was probable he would have voted against the bill now in the House.Mr. Brougham
772771770l.l.769‡768 said, that notwithstanding the strong opinion declared by the House last night, it was impossible for him to forget what were the strong feelings of those who opposed a similar measure above 20 years ago. Most of the great characters of that day were now removed for ever from the stage. Every feeling of political hostility had long since subsided. However strong his own opposition to the measure then was, in every stage of it, he viewed it now in the same light he did any post historical event. But the impressions of the impolicy of that time remained in him unimpaired; and he felt it his duty, though his opposition was hopeless, to mark his opinion to the House; and the country. There was a very great difference between the state of the country then and now, when parties ran so high, when we laboured, under peculiar difficulties, and when pernicious opinions were said to be spreading so widely. He had been closely engaged in all the oppositions to the measure at that time, and he saw no reason to regret it. The results of the policy then pursued, justified in his mind those who were in the opposition. Could it be forgotten by any body, that an attempt was made in those days, which, if successful, would have left us neither liberty nor security?—he meant the attempt at constructive treason. The virtue of the judge, and the manliness and integrity of the juries, would, he was satisfied, command the admiration and gratitude of posterity.—They completely negatived the plot and exposed the political purposes for which it was hatched. All the circumstances justified the objections he had entertained to intrusting such a power as this into the hands of ministers. There were circumstances attending the present case of peculiar delicacy. A right hon. gentleman (Mr. Ponsonby), who had been on the committee, had delivered a speech last night which ought to endear him to the House and to the country by its sense and mildness. But though he had said, that had he been in the cabinet he should have recommended a communication to parliament, and some measure to be abopted; yet, in saying so, he by no means recommended
772771770l.l.769‡768Mr. Curwen
774 declared, that the atrocious projects disclosed in the report of the secret committee induced him most cordially to give his support to the bill now before the House, which was the only means of preventing the realization of these projects. The report of the secret committee stated, that endeavours were made to undermine all the principles of morality and religion. Now, if the suspension bill would work a temporary change in the constitution, surely this was trifling compared with the change that would be effected in the condition of society by erasing from the minds of the people all sentiments of honesty and feelings of piety. If immorality and atheism should gain a footing here, they would not stop, but would extend to the other hemisphere, and overturn all our Indian and foreign establishments. Attempts were made by artful men to drive the people to desperation, by taking advantage of their sufferings; and to inspire them with an aversion to those who were disposed to alleviate their sufferings. There was a prayer which we were all in the habit of using, in which we desired not to be led into temptation. He had heard many speeches which had a tendency to drive the people into temptation, by advising them to dash aside the hand of charity. When such means were taken to inflame the public mind, it was necessary to resort to new means to check the multiplied devices of sedition. They had within their own time the warnings of the downfall of a government unmindful of its duties to itself and to its subjects, and the establishment of one founded on all the principles now propagated. With these scenes in their memory, it was needless to resort to the page of history. He
774Mr. Lockhart
767 said, that after the best consideration which he had been able to give to this subject, painful as it was to him to differ from those around him, with whom he had so long acted, he had brought his mind to the conviction, a conviction which, indeed, might perhaps be
767Mr. Grenfell
 observed, that the measures that had been introduced by ministers were hurried through the House in such a manner, that it was scarcely possible to distinguish one from another, in its passage. He should therefore shortly say, that he was adverse to all the bills.Sir F. Burdett
 said, he had stated, certainly, that there was a necessity for government to give more than mere encouragement to the training of the yeomanry forces at the present day, as it must be obvious that the class of society from which this force had always been collected, was now materially affected by the pressure of the times, and could not, therefore, provide and equip themselves, as in better times they freely had done. He then alluded to the case of a friend of his who had raised an additional troop in one of the most disturbed towns on a former occasion, and had made an application to have three years allowance in advance, but had met with a refusal, and had consequently advanced the money out of his own pocket. He was persuaded that the influence of the yeomanry in repressing cases of popular disturbance was much greater than that of the regular force. The people would in many instances be deterred from violence by seeing those arrayed against them to whom they were accustomed to look up as their masters. He was glad to hear that there was a probability of the increase of their allowances, for unless that were done it would be impossible for them to maintain themselves.Mr. Wynn
783 wished for a constitutional description of force, rather than for one of another description. He had for forty years uniformly maintained those principles which he should continue to maintain to his death,—principles of decided hostility to those on which for that period the government of the country had been conducted. He very much feared that there existed a disposition and a settled intention to produce a state of things in England nothing short of despotism; and he was anxious to put the House on its guard on the subject. He uttered this as his unbiassed opinion. He had nothing to ask either of one side of the House or of
783Mr. Coke
 also thought it proper that the same protection should be extended to the person of the Prince Regent as to that of the King, but objected to the innovations which were made.Sir F. Burdett
781 thought that the least that could be said of the bill was, that it was unnecessary. All knew, that if any attempts had been made to seduce the soldiery, they had failed. The present mea-would throw a slur upon them; for it would make it appear, that they were so liable
781Lord Folkestone
 instanced the case of a person who had been committed upon a charge of attacking the Regent on his return from opening parliament, although no proof was exhibited of his having thrown the stone, and this person was subsequently exonerated from any participation in such attack by the evidence of all the witnesses examined. The law did not require to be drawn tighter. He was afraid there were already too many temptations to prefer accusations of this and other descriptions.Lord Ossulston
 thought that the bill before the House was calculated to impress on the public the idea that we ought to have a large body of forces in time of peace. He objected to large standing armies as unconstitutional, and wished that more confidence were placed in the civil power. It did not appear to him that any serious disturbance was to be apprehended for he was perfectly certain that every man in the country who had any thing to lose, was attached to his majesty's government. Of the four bills, the only one which he could support was that for the better protection of the person of the Prince Regent.Sir G. Heathcote
791 said, he took that opportunity to state a fact, which still further invalidated the report which had been presented to the House from the secret committee. He submitted to the House whether the authority of that report was not weakened day by day; and even by the statement of the lord advocate respecting the arrests in Scotland, which proved the efficacy of the existing law. He held in his hand a letter from a gentleman of great respectability residing at Norwich, who was a member of the societies which had been aspersed in the report, called Union Societies. This gentleman, Mr. Edward Taylor was a member of the Norwich Union Society. His letter he should read to the House. [Mr. Coke then read the letter, which stated, that the writer had seen in the report of the secret committee in the newspapers, the Union Society of Norwich, in common with other Societies of the same description, charged with taking secret oaths? with being affiliated with other societies, and holding midnight orgies, in which the scriptures were ridiculed, and plots discussed for overturning the government of the country. Having been a member of that society from its first formation, he was able to give, from his own knowledge, an unqualified denial of every part of that accusation. The sole object of the society was parliamentary reform, of the necessity of which he had, from his first being able to form an opinion, been convinced: and to endeavour to obtain which, by all lawful means, he felt a duty incumbent upon him. The Society never held correspondence with any other society. It neither desired nor courted secrecy, but had printed and published the declaration of its sentiments. It had no oaths of any kind: it had brought no arms, nor had ever intended to use any weapons but truth and reason; whatever the religious opinions of any of the members were, they were never made the subject of discussion—much less was religion scoffed at or ridiculed. He therefore imagined that the report must have been founded upon evidence suspicious, because, as far as regarded Norwich, it was utterly unfounded. He therefore hoped it would not be; made the ground of subjecting every Englishman to the danger of a Bastile; and he was ready to give proof of his assertions either to any member of the administration, or to Mr. Coke if he required it]. The hon. member then observed, that it was certainly surprising that the
791Mr. Coke
 said, he differed materially from the hon. gentleman who spoke last, as to what was the general opinion in the country concerning the bill before the House, for he believed that the public opinion was strongly in favour of the bill. That hon. gentleman had said, that among the inhabitants of Spital-fields he had found no Spenceans; but the fact was, that none of those who professed the Spencean principles would be willing to avow them, so that there was no good argument to be deduced from the hon. gentleman's inquiries as to that point.Mr. Long Wellesley
795 said he had received a letter from Mr. Chapman, a member of a club for parliamentary reform, at Loughborough, denying all the charges against those societies in the reports of the secret committees.—He took that occasion to ask the lord advocate, whether it was true
795Lord Cochrane
 presented a petition from the chairman of the Leicester Hampden club who felt himself aggrieved, in common with many other individuals, by the report presented to both Houses of Parliament. He wished to vindicate the club from the imputations cast upon it, and was ready to prove at their bar, that its meetings were held for the laudable purpose only of seeking to obtain such a reformation of that House as would restore the people to their just rights and privileges.Sir F. Burdett
804803802 could not but express his astonishment at the observation of the
804803802Lord Folkestone
 of Scotland said, that in all the preceding acts for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus, from the time of the Union of England with Scotland, a clause was introduced in the very same terms as was to be found in the present bill. In 1715, 1722, and 1745, the law officers who then sat in that House meant to put the people of Scotland out of the pale of the law as much as the people of England. The lord advocate then referred to the letter of Mr. M'Arthur, reflecting upon an eminent lawyer in Scotland which was quoted by a noble lord opposite. Of the learned lawyer who was so maligned, he would say nothing, but refer to the character given of him by a dear friend, now no more (Mr. Horner). With that estimable friend he had often politically differed in his life-time; but now that he was unhappily no more, and the country for ever deprived of his invaluable services, he over looked all shades of political difference that had subsisted between them, and only retained the most affectionate recollection of him whom he ! so highly esteemed while living, and whose loss he now deplored when dead [Hear hear!]. That hon. friend had said of the personage, whom Mr. M'Arthur had attacked, that he had for eighteen years administered an important branch of the law in Scotland, with credit to himself and advantage to the public.The Lord Advocate
 could not help congratulating his brother liverymen that they had found at last another representative to coincide in opinion with them, and to do justice to such petitions as they might think proper to present to the House. He had not been at the present meeting, but he agreed with them in thinking that the present measure was altogether uncalled for, and that the House, in depriving the people of their rights and liberties, were neither warranted by any thing contained in the report, nor by any thing that had fallen from his majesty's ministers.Mr. Calvert
787 of Scotland said, he knew that it was competent to any member to make observations on the subject of petitions presented to the House, but he was not aware that any member was at liberty, in a discussion on the motion for bringing up a petition, to make observations on a clause in a bill which was not then under
787The Lord Advocate
788 could not help thinking that the hon. and learned gentleman had not correctly heard what fell from the learned lord. He merely stated that he would give the necessary information to the House at a more convenient season. The best reason why such statements should not be brought forward, except when the subject to which they referred was properly before the House, was, that the person to whom it belonged to give the proper information could not be supposed in his place to-give such information. He knew that when the subject came under the consideration of the House the state-
788The Attorney-General
 asked sir Samuel Romilly, if he had not said the clause objected to was not in the act of 1794?The Lord Advocate
 said, before the House proceeded further, he would read a clause in the act of 1794. [Here the right hon. gentleman read a clause, which was worded like the clause in the present bill.] He did not see how his hon. and learned friend could by any subtlety establish a difference between the two clauses of the act of 1794 and the present bill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 asked, what it signified whether such a clause was in the acts of 1794 and 1798 or not? He would ask too those around the learned lord, whether they understood the clause? Would any of them get up and explain it to the House? Would they tell the House and the country, what they certainly had not understood, that by this measure they would place the liberties of Scotland at the mercy of the lord advocate, and every inferior magistrate of that country.Mr. Ponsonby
 observed, that the learned lord could have no objection to clearing up the difficulty, which did not prevail with regard to the Scotch acts of 1701 and 1744, against wrongous imprisonment. As the clause was at present worded, it would bear many constructions directly opposed to each other, which could not be decided upon after the passing of the bill but by a court of justice.Mr. Ponsonby
822 said, that the bill was opposed by some gentlemen on the ground that no danger existed: and others who
822Mr. Bankes
vice versa; contended, that it was necessary that the power of removal should be given, as cases might occur in which, from the number of the prisoners, or from their combining together, it would be very inconvenient to retain them together in one gaol. In such cases it might be proper to remove prisoners from Gloucester to Hereford, or vice versa;The Solicitor-General
 could not understand why a man taken up for treasonable practices in the county of Hereford should be imprisoned in Gloucester. Were not the gaols in the county sufficient, or were they destitute of keepers. If there were no gaols in a particular county, or no persons to guard them, he could comprehend why a prisoner should be sent to another county; but unless some such reason as that he had stated existed, the removal was a measure of unnecessary cruelty.Mr. Ponsonby
 stated, that cases of great hardship had occurred under the former suspensions of the Habeas Corpus act, in consequence of imprisoning persons in distant gaols.Mr. Bennet
821820819818817816815814‡813812 having been many hours engaged in the discharge of his public duty, in which it might be satisfactory for the House to hear, as it was for him to say it, he had been the humble instrument of procuring the first conviction for an infraction of the law against the slave trade, having been already occupied sixteen hours in the service of the public, he was sure the House would readily believe when he had stated this, that nothing but a sense of the importance of the present question could induce him to rise, and that having risen, it would be his object to trespass on their time as shortly as possible. If on a former night he had abstained from offering his opinions, it was because at that time but a part of that subject was under discussion, the whole of which was now before the House. He begged to say that among the gentlemen opposed to the measure now under consideration, there could not be one who felt more veneration for the constitution of England than himself, nor
821820819818817816815814‡813812The Attorney-General
 said, the present bill had been longer in passing than any former bill of the same description.Mr. Canning
 protested against the indiscreet haste in which the bill was hurried through, and which had deprived his constituents, who were to have a meeting on the subject of the bill on Monday next, of any opportunity of expressing their sentiments.Mr. Calvert
 remarked, that in the present stage the bill could not be recommitted. Any amendment might be introduced after the third reading.The Speaker
 began by saying, that though he felt the utmost abhorrence at the attack made upon the Prince Regent, yet he did not believe that the outrage, audacious as it was, had murder for its object. The learned gentleman had adverted to what had fallen from some gentleman of the committee: he himself had not been on that committee: but he knew that much misinformation had been transmitted to it. The intentions of the persons who sent it were, doubtless, good: but their intelligence was not correct. From what he knew of one district, he thought he might say generally, that the committee had not had before it a true picture of the country For his own part, he must complain of that committee. He knew of no reason why the county of Derby had been singled out for reprobation; he knew that what was said of that county was not the fact. There had, indeed, been a Hampden Club in Derby; but its members were very few. It was true, also, that a great many persons in Derby and its vicinity had petitioned for reform in parliament; but they were most of them men of respectability. He must say, therefore, that he thought Derby wrongly accused; and he thought the same was probably the case with Staffordshire and Cheshire. He thought the magistrates of Derby, from the specimens he had seen of their activity and vigour, were quite competent to maintain the peace of the county. He had himself seen an instance, where a gang of Luddites, who had committed all sorts of depredations, had been speedily brought to justice, and the county had been tranquil ever since. What these magistrates had done before, they would do again; and certain he was, as far as related to that county, there was no reason for suspending the Habeas Corpus act.Lord George Cavendish
 disclaimed having said any thing of the month of May. He had said, that as the bill would expire in the month or July, the subject would probably come before the House some time before, if the renewal were to be proposed.Mr. Bathurst
 denied, if he had used these words, that they were to be considered as any pledge; he had only stated it as a probable circumstance, that the subject might he many weeks, before the 1st of July, under the consideration of the House, if a renewal were to be contemplated.Mr. Bathurst
 said, that whatever might be the merits or demerits of the clause, there was no one at present to answer for them, as it had stood in other bills which had passed the scrutiny of as great acute-ness and talents as the House could now boast.Mr. Bathurst
 observed, that the report before the House could by no possibility be construed to extend to the Norwich Union Society, neither did he think that a candid perusal of the report of the other House would lead to the supposition that this society was implicated in the improper practices. The declaration of the Norwich society had been before the committee of that House, and it was not thought that it would justify any allusion to it in the report—that declaration was in favour of annual parliaments and universal suffrage. If it found its way into the report of the other House, it was coupled with other societies, but it could not be supposed that the mischievous designs alluded to were to be attributed to every one of those societies, much less to every member of them.Mr. Bathurst
 said, that as he had recently come into the House, a letter had been put into his hand by his hon. colleague from a respectable gentleman of Norwich. He was ignorant of the question before the House. If it related to the Union Club, he could say he knew nothing of it. If to the writer of that letter, Mr. Edward Taylor, he knew him to be a man of considerable respectability, a person for whom, (though he differed from him in political questions) he had the greatest respect, and who he was convinced would never be connected with any club or society whatever, which had for its object to subvert the constitution.Mr. Harvey
 said, that though he was as unwilling as any man to give up what was justly called the great bulwark of the constitution, yet, from the intimate conviction he had, that in certain manufacturing districts the most extensive combinations existed, for the worst purposes, which were carried on with a degree of system, of method, and of caution, which the existing laws could not reach, he should support the present measure.Mr. Protheroe
 said, he had heard the right hon. gentleman expressly use the words "many weeks."Lord Stanley
793 said, the facts which were continually coming out proved the use of having the report which had been laid before the other House and the necessity of some delay to examine the foundation of those reports. That evening, for the, second time, it had been proved, that the Lords committee had been mistaken in matters of fact. The Lords committee had proceeded upon the same evidence as the Commons, but had drawn different conclusions from it. It was very necessary to ascertain in what the Lords had been mistaken, for as two mistakes had already been discovered it was possible they might find out ten more. It appeared, from what had been said that night, that
793Mr. Tierney
 said, he held in his hand another proof of the great advantage which would result from allowing the people of this country time to express their sentiments on the important measure now before the House. Although one half-day only had been allowed to the inhabitants of Liverpool, they had sent up the petition which he now held in his hand, couched in respectful language, praying the House not to pass the Habeas Corpus suspension bill into a law. When he looked to the names he found among them the greatest proportion of the wealthy, respectable, and distinguished inhabitants of that place, and in confirmation of this he would refer to the right hon. gentleman opposite, the member for that town. The petitioners said they did not venture to express any opinion on the subject of the allegations in the report of the secret committee, but they ventured to express a strong apprehension that whatever foundation there might be for the charges in the report, there was but too much reason to suspect that it would bring into activity designing and mischievous men, who, without knowing any thing against any body, would insinuate matters of accusation against their neighbours for the purpose of involving them in trouble.Mr. Brougham
 agreed with the learned lord that it was competent to any hon. member to make observations on the question for bringing up a petition, and the House did not want such high authority to convince them of their being in the possession of this right. If they doubted it, however, they now had it from high authority. They had it from the highest law authority of Scotland, the learned lord opposite, newly imported into the House from that country, that it was competent to every member to make observations on the question for bringing up a petition. He wished the learned lord to know, that this was a right with which the greater part of members of this part of the country had long been acquainted. He wished him to know, that it was to this right they were indebted for some of the most valuable privileges that ever were wrung from a reluctant government; and he trusted that this right would still enable them, acted on with proper spirit, to defend the liberties of the people against the encroachments of the enemies of these liberties. But this was the first time that he understood that it was not competent to any member to ask such explanation on the subject of a clause in a bill which would shortly afterwards be discussed for the last time in the House, as, if obtained, would enable the House to come properly prepared to that discussion, and to ask that explanation from the person who must be supposed best able to give it. He rather thought the reason why the learned lord did not meet the statement of his learned friend with any explanation, was, that he had no explanation to give.Mr. Brougham
 said the House must recollect that they went to a division on the statement of the right hon. gentleman.Mr. Brougham
825 wished the House to understand, that a right hon. gentleman
825Mr. Brougham
782, in presenting returns of the Yeomanry and Volunteer Cavalry in Great Britain, said, he should take that opportunity of adverting to the statement of an hon. member (Mr. Wynn) the other night, in which that hon. gentleman had seemed to convey an imputation against that branch of the government to which he belonged, that it was not properly disposed to entourage the yeomanry of the country. He was the more surprised, as he and his noble relation were known to entertain the most exalted opinion of that constitutional description of force; of the zeal, promptness, alacrity, and public spirit with which they had attended the summons of the civil magistrates, and on many occasions protected the peace of the country. He had to state that since the beginning of October every effort had been made by the home secre-
782Mr. Addington
 was in favour only of the bill for preventing the seduction of the military, and the bill for extending to the Prince Regent the provisions of the law for the security of his majesty's person.Mr. Calcraft
784 thought the speech of the hon. baronet who had presented the petition, most valuable. That hon. baronet had seen the terrible mob which had been the occasion of the suspension bill: he had been one of those by whom that mob had been dispersed, and if the best evidence had been wanted before the secret committee, none could have been better than that of the worthy alderman. It was now the only one before the House. He congratulated the city of London on the circumstance, that one of their representatives, after seeing all these mighty undertakings, which were to end in the seizing of the Tower, and the destruction of the bridges and barracks, and after taking such a prominent part in the crushing them, came forward and bore testi-
784Mr. Calcraft
794§ considered it very improper not to give the people time to contradict the imputations that had been flung on them in the report of the secret committee, which he denied was founded on facts. The report began with an allusion to a society called the Spenceans, which, it said, had openly existed. Now, he was member of a committee for inquiring into the distresses in Spital-fields, where he had found an excess of misery, that would have induced compassion, even to the errors of the sufferers; but although he had gone from house to house, and from room to room, he could not, in all is visits, discover any traces of its existence. And after all that had been said upon the subject, both in the report and in the newspapers, he was inclined to believe the entire Spencean society to be what was vulgarly called a humbug. It was indeed very possible that many persons in the country might entertain wild and chimerical doctrines, but the report applied this character to the whole country. With respect to the riots on the 2nd of December, he allowed that he had felt a considerable alarm on that occasion, but the whole proceeding could not justify the application to it of the term insurrection. An insurrection at 12 o'clock, in the middle of the day, and in the city of London! If, indeed, it had burst out at 12 at night, or even at five in the evening, it might have been so designated, but all he could say was, to express a hope that proper precautions would be taken against the recurrence of such excesses, but by other means than the suspension of the Habeas
794§Mr. John Smith
797796 rose and said, he did not mean to trouble the House at any great length, but he wished to have those sentiments recorded which, for a series of years, he had always expressed upon the subject of suspending the Habeas Corpus, and which would die with him. As to the doctrines professed by a set of men calling themselves Spenceans, he felt no alarm at them; they had slept for twenty years, and if now revived, he did not think it likely they would have many converts. If any person imagined that there was an insurrection now upon the eve of bursting forth, nothing which he could offer would be calculated to remove that suspicion from their minds; but with regard to that which took place on the 2nd December, it had been crushed by the existing laws. Those laws also had since been found sufficient to put down a conspiracy in another part of the island, according to the declaration of a learned lord upon a for-
797796Mr. M. A. Taylor
, after the statement which had been made by his learned friend, a statement of the correctness of which he was convinced, from its not having been disputed by the learned lord opposite, put it to the House—if they were resolved that this bill should pass into a law—whether they would allow it to pass with this blemish?Mr. M. A. Taylor
 congratulated the House on the acquisition of evidence which superseded all the evidence hitherto given. If hon. gentlemen would abide by their own senses, and not by the ill-fangled report of the secret committee, they would come to the conclusion that that report was a libel on the country, and an attempt to impose evidence upon them. He wished that every member should be called upon in his place to declare what was the state of the part of the country which he represented, if this were not done, the country was condemned unheard. If the House did its duty by its constituents, it would set aside the report. Most of the petitions demanded the restoration of the rights of which the people had been deprived, but instead of doing that, the House proceeded, as often as it met, to deprive them of other rights. The constitution rested on two great pillars: property and liberty. The whole property of the country was now gone. It had been taken in taxes and wasted in wars, for the nefarious purpose of preventing reform. Now that the ministers had obtained all they could in point of money, they wished to take away the liberties of the country. It was a foul conspiracy against the people and the state for the purpose of establishing despotism. The question was, whether Englishmen were to remain free, or to become a nation of slaves.Mr. P. Moore
801800, as a member of the secret committee, thought that whatever information they might have, it was impossible not to feel that the general situation of the country ought to have led ministers
801800Mr. Lamb
799 said, that if the question now at issue were not of the greatest importance, and that the voice of the humblest individual ought to be raised against it, he should not have ventured to present himself to the notice of the House. He was the more anxious, however, to clear himself from the imputation that had been cast upon those who sat on his side, that if they did not encourage the violent proceedings which had taken place, they at least supported them by the arguments they had held, and the vote which they had given on this occasion. [Cries of No, no! from the Ministerial benches.] He was glad to hear that such imputation was to be removed. This was a measure which could be justified only by the most imperious necessity. The noble secretary of state, in one of those insidious panegyrics on the constitution, which always preceded or accompanied some attack on it, had endeavoured to convince the House that the country was in the utmost danger; but the evidence which had been that day produced must have considerably shaken the report of the committee. It had been said, that great disturbances existed in the manufacturing districts; and certainly we wanted no report to satisfy ourselves of that fact; but the peace of the metropolis had riot been disturbed to the extent that was stated. It was necessary, perhaps, to go through the form of a secret committee; but the government must have had violent proceedings. He must now inquire what the officers of the Crown had done to punish or prevent such persons as had been suspected. They ought immediately to have had recourse to constitutional measures. Ministers, however, should have assembled parliament at an earlier period; whereas they had put it off till a period unusually long, and had suf-
799Mr. Lyttelton
Sed revocare gradum superasque evadere ad aurus,Facilis descensus averni, hoped as a petition was now presented from the city of London against the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, that time would be given for his constituents to send a petition from Boston. He hoped time would be given for the whole country to petition. He hoped the House would interpose to compel ministers to postpone the third reading for a week or ten days, to allow a fuller attendance of members, and to afford the other half of the House, now absent, most of them probably in the country, to attend in their places, and report on the several districts they reside in or represent, as to the actual condition of the people. Would the House suffer the measure to be precipitated in this manner? Would they allow the people to petition on a turnpike road that leads to the county town, and prohibit them from petitioning on a measure that leads to the county gaol, and that too on suspicion. And where was the road by which they were to return? Not through the avenues of justice, for they were closed, and the trial by jury denied them. And when? Who could predict the duration of their durance? Who could foresee the numberless pretences which the ingenuity of tottering power might invent for its continuance? The descent to the dungeons in the Tower was easy and certain; the return difficult and uncertain—
Sed revocare gradum superasque evadere ad aurus,Facilis descensus averni,Mr. Madocks
792 rose exactly to the same point as that to which his hon. friend had spoken. To the character of the gentleman whom his hon. friend had referred to be could bear testimony, but he wished his hon. colleague had been present, who though he differed from him in political opinions, would speak equally favourable of the character of Mr. Taylor. He felt it necessary to say, that when he saw the report (which was that of the committee of the other House, which alone referred to Union Clubs) he had never imagined that the accusation against these societies could at all refer to that at Norwich. Being in the habit of communicating continually with the citizens of Norwich of all descriptions, as well those who agreed with him in political opinions as those who were of a very different persuasion, he could say that he never heard one imputation on the motives or conduct of that society, even from those who were not at all friendly to its objects. As to the individual whose letter had been read, there could not be a man of greater respectability, or less likely to be concerned in any improper practices. The letter which he had received from that individual differed from that which his hon. friend had read, in a postscript, which stated that the declaration of the Union Society was inclosed to him, which declaration the writer had thought of sending to lord Sid-mouth. At a meeting held at Norwich for the purpose of obtaining parliamentary reform, at which he (Mr. S) had been present, he had not the slightest hesitation in saying, in full hall, that it was of no importance what reform took place in parliament, unless the electors reformed themselves: and that any man who suffered himself to be influenced in his vote by any private consideration, was not entitled to petition for parliamentary reform. It was obvious that men who received favourably such a declaration, were not of those wild and intemperate persons who were unfit to judge on any political question. That meeting was perfectly quiet, and showed no disposition to interfere with the peace of the city or the country at large; and
792Mr. William Smith
798 did not think the active participation of men of note in a general conspiracy was essential to the existence of great danger. The lower classes were the instruments necessarily employed in all insurrectionary movements; and if they were divided into clubs and societies, the work of insurrection might easily be commenced. It was not conclusive to say, that because the lord advocate of Scotland had arrested some individuals, he had therefore sufficient legal powers to put down the mischief, and take into custody all who might be proper objects of suspicion. He had understood the learned lord to state, that there were persons against whom it was desirable to proceed, if the law would enable him to do so. It was useless to talk of precautionary measures after the danger had actually arrived; the object of the present bill was to guard against contingencies, and the recurrence of the evils which had already taken place. In committing these
798Mr. Windham Quin
811810809808807ex parte806 said, that the report of the secret committee had his hearty and entire concurrence. He had listened attentively to the taunts and sneers which it had called forth; but the opinion he had originally formed was the more confirmed, the more he reflected on the nature of the evidence on which it was grounded. From this declaration he would not shrink as it was drawn from him by a sense of public duty; and he would further say, that in his opinion the government would have merited severe censure, if they had failed to make that communication to parliament which had led to the formation of the committee. The report was so far from exaggerating the dangers of the country that he was inclined to think it did not go so far as the evidence would have warranted the committee in going, and he therefore considered the strictures which had been made upon it to be wholly uncalled for by the occasion.811810809808807ex parte806Sir Arthur Piggott
 also reprobated the obscurity and ambiguity with which the clause was framed. If this law was to be inflicted upon the people, they had at least a right to expect that it should be clear and precise. In order that the difficulty might be removed, he recommended that the bill should be recommitted.Sir A. Piggott
 wished to observe, that if this bill had been a longer time passing through the House, it would have been opposed by three times as many members as ever divided against any former bill.Sir C. Monck,
 spoke shortly in the highest terms, as to the respectability of Mr. Taylor, the gentleman from whom the letter came, which had been read to the House.Sir James Mackintosh
 said, a petition had been put into his hands, which had been agreed to at a meeting of the livery of London that day assembled in Common Hall. He had been prevented from attending the meeting, but he understood that it had been very numerous, and that the petition had been agreed to unanimously, The petition was couched in decent and respectful language; the prayer of it was, that the bill for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act should not pass into a law. With respect to the other measures before the House, he thought that circumstances rendered them necessary; but with regard to the suspension of the Habeas Corpus, he considered that it was uncalled for by the necessities of the case. He then moved that the petition be brought up.Sir James Shaw
805 rose merely to make one or two observations on what had fallen from the learned lord, from whom he had the misfortune to differ with respect to the acts which included Scotland. He had said, on a former night, that the clause in question was not to be found in the act of 1794: he had never said that it was not to be found in any of the preceding acts. It was certainly not to be
805Sir S. Romilly
 answered in the affirmative.Sir S. Romilly
789 disclaimed all pretensions to subtlety. When he made the statement he had expressly stated, that if he was wrong he should be happy to be corrected. He had looked over the bill of 1794 too hastily. However, the ques-
789Sir S. Romilly
786785 took this opportunity, while they were deliberating on a motion for bringing up a petition from the livery of London, to beg the House would take into its consideration how very large a number of the subjects of this country could not express their sentiments on the subject of this measure, and that those who could not possibly come to the bar of the House were precisely those who would be most affected by the measure. If by the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act the people of England would be placed in a miserable condition, the people of Scotland would be placed in a far more miserable condition. He did not know that there was any difference between the people of the two countries till he saw the clause of the act which related to Scotland. There was no difference between the two
786785Sir Samuel Romilly
 rose to state, that though the same clause was not in the act of 1794, he was aware that it was in the act of 1798.Sir S. Romilly
850 had known his lamented friend before he had distinguished himself so much as he had subsequently done: and could not be silent when such an opportunity occurred of paying a tribute to his memory. Whatever difference of opinion they might have on public questions, he could suspend that difference to admire his talents, his worth, and his virtues. It was not his talents alone that were developed in his eloquence. His eloquence displayed his heart: through it were seen his high-minded probity, his philanthropy, his benevolence, and all those qualities which not only exacted applause, but excited love. It was the mind that appeared in speeches that gave them character. He would not enter into the account of his private life, although his private virtues were at least on a level with his public merits. Amid all the cares and interests of public life he never lost his relish for domestic society or his at-
850Mr. C. Grant, junr.
841 could not help saying, that it was extremely desirable that county meetings should be regulated by some legislative enactments. He knew, from experience, that petitions often came before the House, as speaking the sense of meetings of large counties, which only spoke the sentiments of the rabble of the county town. With respect to this particular case, that the sheriff signed the address, was all the satisfaction that the House could have of its speaking the sense of the county of Lancaster. But speaking in general, he had no hesitation in saying, that the country was exposed to great mischief from the labours of a few active Jacobins, who went about influencing the lower orders of people to attend public meetings. From the way petitions were carried, of which not merely the gentlemen of a county, but even the respectable tradesmen generally disapproved, he thought that in all times, and in all situations of the country, it would be ex-
841Mr. Baring
 said, that his noble friend (lord Morpeth), and his right hon. friend who had last spoken, had expressed themselves concerning their departed friend with that feeling of affection and esteem which did them so much honour, and which was heightened by their habits of intimacy, and their opportunities of observing his character; but the virtues by which he was distinguished were not confined within the circle of his acquaintance, or concealed from the view of the world. Every one who saw Mr. Horner had the means of judging of his temper, his mildness, and his personal virtues; for they were seen by all. He carried with him to public life, and into the duties and the business of his public station, all that gentleness of disposition, all that amenity of feeling, which adorned his private life, and endeared him to his private friends. A-midst the heats and contests of the House, amidst the vehemence of political discussion, amidst the greatest conflicts of opinion and opposition of judgment, he maintained the same mildness and serenity of disposition and temper. No eagerness of debate, no warmth of feeling, no enthusiasm for his own opinions or conviction of the errors of others, ever betrayed him into any uncandid construction of motives, or any asperity towards, the conduct of his opponents. His loss was great, and would long be regretted.Mr. Wynn
838 rose for the purpose of presenting a Petition, numerously signed by the magistrates, gentry, clergy, freeholders, and other inhabitants of the hundred of Blackburn, in the county palatine of Lancaster, expressing their abhorrence of the conduct of those who, under the mask of reform, were endeavouring to subvert the constitution; who had emissaries at work all over the kingdom, endeavouring, by every art, to inflame the populace, and stir them up to acts of violence, and carrying about petitions ready made for the purpose of procuring the people by any means to sign them. The petition prayed the House not to consider that the feelings of the great body of the people were expressed in such pe-
838Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
839 wished to bear testimony to the respectability of the signatures to the petition. With respect to the meeting at Preston, it had no doubt been regularly convened, on a requisition numerously and respectably signed; but the
839Mr. Cawthorne
 said, that, in what he had observed, when he presented the petition, he meant not to make any personal allusion. He, however, must declare it to be a notorious fact, that the Preston meeting was irregularly conducted. The room appropriated for the purpose was of very confined extent, and, before those who had signed the requisition made their appearance, it was almost completely occupied.Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
844decided in his opinions—modest and unassuming in his manners. To his private friends his death is a calamity they can never cease to deplore. To the public it is a loss not easily to be repaired, and, in times like these, most severely to be felt.—Mr. Horner was born in 1779, admitted member of the faculty of advocates in 1800, and called to the English bar in 1S07 He came first into the House of Commons in 1806, and has been member of three successive parliaments. The only official situation he ever held was the laborious office of commissioner for the liquidation of the Carnatic claims, which he kept only for a short time, having resigned it many years ago, because he found the duties which it imposed on him were incompatible with the application due to his professional pursuits."843weight and influence in parliament, which few men, whose lives were passed in opposition, have been able to obtain; and for this consideration he was infinitely less indebted to his eloquence and talents, eminent as they were, than to the opinion universally entertained of his public and private rectitude. His understanding was I strong and comprehensive, his knowledge extensive and accurate, his judgment sound and clear, his conduct plain and direct. His eloquence, like his character, was grave and forcible, without a particle of vanity or presumption, free from rancour and personality, but full of deep and generous indignation against fraud, hypocrisy, or injustice.—He was a warm, zealous, and affectionate friend—high-minded and disinterested in his conduct—firm and842** rose, and spoke as
844decided in his opinions—modest and unassuming in his manners. To his private friends his death is a calamity they can never cease to deplore. To the public it is a loss not easily to be repaired, and, in times like these, most severely to be felt.—Mr. Horner was born in 1779, admitted member of the faculty of advocates in 1800, and called to the English bar in 1S07 He came first into the House of Commons in 1806, and has been member of three successive parliaments. The only official situation he ever held was the laborious office of commissioner for the liquidation of the Carnatic claims, which he kept only for a short time, having resigned it many years ago, because he found the duties which it imposed on him were incompatible with the application due to his professional pursuits."843weight and influence in parliament, which few men, whose lives were passed in opposition, have been able to obtain; and for this consideration he was infinitely less indebted to his eloquence and talents, eminent as they were, than to the opinion universally entertained of his public and private rectitude. His understanding was I strong and comprehensive, his knowledge extensive and accurate, his judgment sound and clear, his conduct plain and direct. His eloquence, like his character, was grave and forcible, without a particle of vanity or presumption, free from rancour and personality, but full of deep and generous indignation against fraud, hypocrisy, or injustice.—He was a warm, zealous, and affectionate friend—high-minded and disinterested in his conduct—firm and842**Lord Morpeth
846***845—Of all the instances wherein the same course has been adopted, as that which my noble friend has pursued with so much feeling and good taste on this occasion, I do not remember one more likely than the present to conciliate the general approbation and sympathy of the House. I, Sir, had not the happiness
846***845Mr. Canning.
853852851 rose to move the second reading of the bill for preventing Seditious Meetings. Before he made his motion, he would briefly explain the reasons for passing this bill, and the different enactments which it contained. To those who thought the report before the House contained no proof of combinations and conspiracies, he deemed it useless to appeal, but to those who had deemed that conspiracies not only existed, but were dangerous and alarming, he should be able to give sufficient reasons for adopting the bill on the table. Of the various means employed by the fomenters of discontent, one of the most efficacious was, to call together a number of persons to inflame them by harangues, to persuade them that the evils arising from the circumstances of the times would be remedied by their application to parliament, and to persuade them that they had a right to force parliament to comply with their demands. These meetings, which might be turned to every mischievous purpose, the bill was intended to control by some regulations precisely of the same kind as those adopted at other critical
853852851The Solicitor-General
 said, that as there would be several stages of the bill in which its principle and provisions might be discussed, he should abstain from entering upon them at present. It was so framed, indeed, and so mixed up with two other acts of parliament, that it was difficult to ascertain what its principle was. He had no objection to that part which provided that seven resident householders should sign a requisition, because he did not think it would throw any real impediment in the way of the constitutional right of petitioning the throne and parliament. But there were some clauses to which he greatly objected. He thought, however, it would be better to let the bill go into a committee, and when they fully understood its provisions, they would then be able thoroughly to investigate its principle. He would merely suggest that there were two clauses in the act of 1799, which ought to be adopted, one from policy, and the other from consistency. The first related to the indemnifying a person against all acts which he might have committed as a member of those societies, previously to the passing of the law. Such a provision would operate as an inducement to many to quit and renounce those unlawful assemblies. The second referred to a limitation of time in which actions could be brought against an individual. They had already protected the magistrates in that respect, and for the sake of consistency they ought to secure the subject.Mr. Ponsonby
 said, he felt it impossible to avoid entering his protest against the measure at its outset. It was a direct infringement upon the bill of rights, which secured to the poorest man in the kingdom the right of petitioning upon the grievances of the country. But if the present law passed, he could not exercise that right, unless he found seven householders who would sign a requisition. He was persuaded the chief cause of the bill was on account of the number of petitions which the people were sending to that House. The people complained so loud that members, as they did not choose to listen to their prayer, were resolved to stifle their voice by this code of despotism. He regarded the present bill as the most objectionable of all, because it attacked the right of petitioning. Notwithstanding all that was said of disturbances, yet it was a fact, that innumerable petitions (there were now above 600 lying on the floor, signed by nearly a million of persons) had been drawn up at meetings where order and regularity prevailed, to a degree that was really surprising. He believed that no other country in the world could exhibit a population, suffering under such accumulated distresses, where so much forbearance and temper were manifested. Their conduct took away every pretext for infringing the constitution; and he was surprised that the absurdity of the Spencean doctrines did not render gentlemen ashamed of expresing any apprehensions from such a cause.Sir F. Burdett
 contended, that so far from taking away the right of petitioning, the bill in question tended to give that right greater security and effect, by guarding against tumultuary and seditious proceedings. He would suggest, however, to the law officers, a provision which he thought it might be desirable to enact. It was extremely possible that combinations might be entered into, to require meetings in different parts of a county, at one and the same time, with a view to distract the civil and military force. In order to prevent that it might be provided, that persons anxious to have a meeting convened, should communicate their desire to the magistrates, who should be compelled to call the meeting within a specified time (suppose seven days) under a heavy penalty.Mr. Law
 observed, that the promoters of the bill felt it to be their duty, as well as their inclination, to bring forward all the clauses they meant to propose at once, and that they would have nothing to add in the committee. The hon. and learned gentleman then entered into similar explanations of the nature and tendency of the measure as had been afforded by the solicitor-general.The Attorney-General
857 hoped the House would pause before they gave ministers the power to suppress all the public sources of reading and information. He adverted to what had been mentioned in the report respecting the disposition of the people at Glasgow, and begged leave to read an extract of a letter from Mr. M'Arthur (whose name had been introduced on a former occasion) on that subject. It stated that people were persecuted by the spies of government. One gentleman had been seized in his bed at one in the morning, charged by a malicious spy with disaffection, and having arms in his house. He was thrown into a dungeon and kept for two nights; but when examined, he was liberated, the whole being false. The letter added that the reign of terror was begun. And that the people were indignant at the practices that were resorted to ensnare the, unwary, as the above was a plot of the creatures in the pay of
857Lord Cochrane
858 said, he would not object to this measure if a clear and decided case could be made out for its necessity. He conceived, however, that every gentleman in the House was as able to judge of the state of the country as every member of the committee; and certainly, as far as his knowledge extended, there was no occasion whatever for invading the liberties of the people. He had not the least doubt that some blasphemous publications had
858Mr. Baring
l.859, as he had not been a member of the secret committee, had had no opportunity of knowing the nature of the evidence on which they had founded the report; but from reading that report, he had no hesitation in believing that the danger extended to a much greater length than was generally thought. How the lord mayor could have searched through the contents of the sealed bag, and have known the evidence that the members had before them was to him a mystery. The report did not state those societies to be prevalent over every part of the kingdom, but over a very great part. He could
l.859Mr. Wynn
 differed from the hon. gentleman who spoke last, and thought the lord mayor competent authority as to the validity of the documents that passed through his hands. He agreed with the chief magistrate in thinking that there never was a green bag which gave birth to so foolish a child.Lord Rancliffe
 said, he was intrusted with the presentation of certain petitions for a reform in parliament, about 600 in number, and signed by nearly a million of individuals. He would not occupy the time of the House by attempting to particularize these petitions, but would merely move that they be brought up.Sir F. Burdett
 replied in the affirmative, and proceeded to the floor, near the table, which was strewed for a large space with these petitions. On the question that they be brought up, a laugh was caused by the difficulty in which the hon. baronet was placed, owing to the great mass of these petitions. Sir Francis, assisted by the clerks, went through the labour of lifting the petitions upon the table. When those from Blackburne, Derby, and some other towns were read, several of the petitions were found to be printed.Sir F. Burdett
 had no objection to postpone the reading of the remainder, as he should then have an opportunity of expressing his sentiments on the course pursued by the House in rejecting printed petitions.Sir F. Burdett
 put it to the House, whether justice could be done to the sentiments of the country, whatever they might be, by presenting petitions in this manner.Mr. Law
, in explanation, stated, that it had devolved on him as a duty, painful as it was in many respects, to present these petitions to the House, their number must be his excuse, for not acquainting himself with their contents. Some of them he found were printed, but he could see no rational ground for objecting to them on that account, for it could not be denied that a printed petition might express the sentiments of the people as correctly as if it were written.Sir F. Burdett
 noticed the extraordinary coincidence in the wording of these petitions, which were almost all that he had seen, nearly the same.Mr. Law
 said, he had seen a list of many names attached to a petition, all evidently written by one hand, and there was one list without a petition.Mr. Swan
 observed, that sheets for signature, without any petition or address attached to them, were now sending round, as it was said by persons in office. It had been offered to prove at the bar of that House in what way the majority of its members were returned.—Lord Cochrane
 thought it probable the hon. baronet in bringing in the 5 or 600 petitions as he found them in the vote office, had only wished to save trouble to the House and himself, but had he given himself time to think on the subject, he would have seen that it was due to the House first to examine them. In a day or two, he and other gentlemen who acted with him, might have looked into them so far as to discover what could or could not be received by the House—what were petitions, and what addresses to the Prince Regent.Lord Binning
 was again called upon to state the rules of the House. The House had frequently refused petitions on the sole principle of their having names affixed to them not written by the persons themselves, and it was an established rule that no name should be affixed by any other person to a petition to the House, unless the person whose name was so affixed, happened to be out of the realm, and had sent a full and legal authority to another to subscribe his name.The Speaker
 reminded the noble lord, that he was not speaking to the question. He might show his ingenuity by bringing the same topics before them in various shapes, but he must see he was striving against the feelings of the House.The Speaker
 inquired, if any one moved that the further proceedings on them should be postponed.The Speaker
 said, the House had been in the habit of reading a single petition, and of receiving from members others on the same subject in confidence. Hence the practice of bringing up many petitions at once, had become common, but this night it had been carried to an unprecedented extent. At present, though many had been read, not one had been ordered to lie on the table; it was therefore competent for the House to postpone all further proceedings on them, and this, he thought, might be the best course that could be taken.The Speaker
, since the attention of the House had been called to this subject, thought it right to state, that the hon. baronet owed it to the House and to himself, to see what it was that he took upon himself to present. Had the hon. baronet looked over the mass of documents now before the House, he would have seen that some of them were not petitions. As the matter now stood, it was not too much to expect that he should proceed no further with them that day.The Speaker
 said, the House had a right also to expect that the hon. baronet would not present any petition couched in the same terms as those which had been rejected. Much of the business of that House was done on the faith and confidence had in its members. If the rules of the House should in consequence be inadvertently overstepped, that confidence must be diminished for the time to come.The Speaker
 observed, that he was afraid the hon. baronet must take them all back [a laugh!]. Sir F. Burdett replied, that there appeared several not printed. He then selected those from Preston, Hull, Manchester, Bolton-le-Moore, Loughborough, Ashton-under-Line, and others; which were laid on the table. Lord Cochrane then assisted in selecting several petitions from Scotland, which were laid on the table. In the course of selecting these petitions from the quantity on the floor, an address to the Prince Regent was read among the number, which induced the Speaker to observe, that he was afraid the hon. member had not read the documents, that he was about to lay before the House.The Speaker
—Are they all to the same effect?The Speaker
ne quid detrimenti, respublica capiat. conceived it to be his duty, as a representative, bound to defend the purses and liberties of his constituents, to enter his protest against the present measure. He would cheerfully give to the government all the security that was consistent with the principles of the constitution; but he considered that the House had already, by suspending the law of Habeas Corpus and trial by jury, given them as much power as the Romans gave to a dictator, when they directed him to provide ne quid detrimenti, respublica capiat.Lord William Russell
854 said, he should certainly oppose the second reading of the bill. There had been a meeting that very day in the borough of Southwark, originally convened for the purpose of petitioning against the suspension of the Habeas Corpus, bat the rapidity with which that measure was hurried through, rendered it
854Mr. C. Calvert
 said, that not wishing to set up his own judgment against the opinion of both sides of the House, he would not insist on a division.Mr. Calvert
 could not let this opportunity pass by without adverting to what had fallen from his hon. friend. With regard to the signatures to the petition, they were in the highest degree respectable, and he believed the petition spoke the sentiments of those individuals who signed it. But he had to learn now, for the first time, that the sentiments of any body of gentlemen, however respectable, of any hundred of a large county, were to be taken for the sentiments of that county, in opposition to the sentiments of a meeting called by public advertisement, where an address had been agreed to, and signed by the high sheriff of the county in his public capacity. The meeting in question was very numerously attended, and, among others, by those who signed the requisition, but they were completely defeated with respect to the address they brought forward, an amended address being carried by a large majority. He was aware that it might be said that many of them were not freeholders; but this was not a meeting of freeholders—it was a general meeting of the county. The result of the determination of that meeting, however, would not come before the House; it was an address to the Prince Regent. Meetings of the county of Lancaster for petitioning were seldom called, on account of the extent and population of the county, and political opinions being so much divided. He protested against this petition being considered as the petition of a meeting of the county of Lancaster.Lord Stanley
840 said, that it had been observed, that to be praised by him who was the object of all men's commendations was a rare felicity. This was not a felicity, however, which it seemed was to be enjoyed by, the worthy gentleman, Mr. Casey, whose name had, in so unaccountable a manner, been brought forward on this occasion by the hon. member,—he had not had the good fortune to be praised by a gentleman, whose name was the object of ail men's commendations. He would venture to say, that an individual who bore a more respectable character among his friends, or on 'Change, did not exist than Mr. Casey. He had, indeed, met with misfortunes in trade, but he should have thought these misfortunes would rather have screened him from, than exposed him to, objections, which till he had met with misfortunes, had never been heard of Whether the principles of Mr. Casey were or were not mischievous was a matter, the determination of which must depend on the opinion which every man entertained with respect to the particular question which now divided the country. That he was a powerful advocate of those principles no man would deny—and if he had not also been a successful advocate of them, his name would never have been heard in that House. That he had transferred his
840Mr. Brougham
 hoped to be excused for adding a few words to what had been said, though he had not the honour of a private acquaintance with Mr. Horner, whom he knew only in this House, where they had almost uniformly voted on opposite sides on every great question. Notwithstanding these differences, he had often said in private, that Mr. Horner was one of the greatest ornaments of his country; and he would now say in public, that the country could not have suffered a greater loss. The forms of parliament allowed no means of expressing the collective opinion of the House on the honour due to his memory; but it must be consolatory to his friends td see that if it had been possible to have come to such a vote, it would certainly have been unanimous.Lord Lascelles
 had no objection to the motion for postponing the petitions, but he begged leave to observe, on the assertion of the hon. member respecting the number of names said to have been written by one person, that it was difficult for any person to hazard such a conjecture on the cursory view taken of the names by the hon. member. He could see no advantage to be derived from such a circumstance, for among the hundreds and thousands of persons petitioning in the kingdom there was no necessity of affixing any false names to petitions.Mr. Calcraft
 said it was rather too much to state that the sentiments of the present petition were the sentiments of the freeholders of the county of Lancaster. The hon. member for Lancaster had talked of the cotton-spinners and weavers who composed the meeting at Preston. But he would ask him how many cotton-spinners and weavers had been influenced by their masters to sign the present petition? [Not one, from Mr. Cawthorne]. This was a bold assertion. It did not become that hon. gentleman to talk of Irish renegadoes. He had never heard any thing against the gentleman whom he had so characterized, either as a merchant or a man; nothing which could lead him to infer that he ought to be considered as a mischievous person.Mr. Birch
862 said, that the right of petitioning was the dearest and most va-
862Mr. Serjeant Best
 remarked, that some of the petitions had long lists of names attached to them, which were all evidently written by one hand.Mr. Serjeant Best
—Amongst his other friends, sir, I cannot refuse to myself the melancholy consolation of paying my humble tribute of esteem and affection to the memory of a person, of whose rich, cultivated, and enlightened mind I have so often profited, and whose exquisite talents—whose ardent zeal for truth—whose just, sedate, and discriminating judgment—whose forcible, but chastened eloquence—and, above all, whose inflexible virtue and integrity rendered him one of the most distinguished members of this House, one of the brightest ornaments of the profession to which he belonged, and held him forth as a finished model for the imitation of the rising generation. The full amount of such a loss, at such a conjuncture, and under all the various circumstances and considerations of the case, I dare not attempt to estimate. My learned friend (sir S. Romilly) has well observed, that, if the present loss be great, the future loss is greater: for, by dispensations far above the reach of human scrutiny, he has been taken from us at a period when he was only in his progress towards those high stations in the state, in which, so far as human foresight could discern, his merits must have placed him, and which would have given to his country the full and ripened benefits of his rare and admirable qualities.Mr. W. Elliot.
 said, that when the hon. baronet proposed to bring up the 600 petitions on the floor, he thought it not too much to expect that he knew something about them. It now appeared, however, that he did not. The hon. baronet would consult the convenience of the House, by ascertaining, before he brought petitions down to the House, what could, and what could not be received.Mr. Manning
 could not agree with the learned serjeant, that it was a gross insult to the dignity and authority of the House, for one man to affix the names of other persons to petitions, if duly authorized to do so.Sir C. Monck
847—I know not whether I ought, even for a moment, to intrude myself on the House: I am utterly incapable of adding any thing to what has been so well, so feelingly, and so truly stated on this melancholy occasion; and yet I hope, without the appearance of presumption, I may be permitted to say, from the bottom of my heart, I share in every sentiment that has been expressed. It was my good fortune, some few years back, to live in habits of great intimacy and friendship with Mr. Horner: change of circumstances, my quit-ting the profession to which we both belonged, broke in upon those habits of intercourse; but I hope and believe I may matter myself the feeling was mutual. For myself, at least, I can most honestly say, that no change of circumstances—no difference of politics—no interruption to our habits of intercourse, even in the slightest degree diminished the respect, the regard, and the affection I most sincerely entertained for him. This House can well appreciate the heavy loss we have sustained in him, as a public man. In these times, indeed in all times, so perfect a combination of commanding talents, indefatigable industry, and stern integrity, must be a severe public loss: but no man, who has not had the happiness—the blessing, I might say—to have known him as a friend; who has not witnessed the many virtues and endearing qualities that characterized him in the circle of his acquaintance, can adequately conceive the irreparable chasm in private life this lamentable event has made. In my conscience I believe there never lived the man, of whom it could more truly be said, that, whenever he was found in public life, he was respected and admired—whenever he was known in private life, he was most affectionately beloved. I will no longer try the patience of the House: I was anxious, indeed, that they should bear with me for a few moments, whilst I endeavoured, not to add my tribute to the regard and veneration in which his memory ought, and assuredly
847Mr. Manners Sutton.
, In pursuance of his notice, moved for leave to bring in a bill to alter and amend the law of last session, known by the name of the Game act. By that act, persons going out by night with arm? about them for the purpose of killing game, were liable to the punishment of transportation. His intention was, to continue this part of the act. But it also enacted, that persons going out by night without arms for the purpose of taking and destroying game, should be subjected to the punishment of transportation. It was his intention to repeal this part of the act. Another part of the act repealed two acts of the 39th and 40th of the King relative to rogues and vagabonds; and it was his intention to repeal this part, that the laws against rogues and vagabonds might be in full force. He concluded with moving. "That leave be given to bring in a bill for the prevention of persons going armed by night for the destruction of game, and for repealing an act made in the last session of parliament relating to rogues and vagabonds."Sir E. Knatchbull
856 said, that he wished to have some explanation from the attorney-general respecting the meaning and operation of that clause in the bill, which,; as it appeared to him, would prevent persons from resorting to any rooms for the purpose of reading books, pamphlets, and the daily journals. As he read this clause, he conceived that it went to prevent persons from resorting to reading rooms and circulating libraries, for the purpose of reading newspapers and books, which would be a most unwarrantable oppression of the subject. In the town in which he lived, there was a reading room, which was frequently attended by the most re-
856Sir M. W. Ridley
849848 said, that the long and most intimate friendship which he had enjoyed with the hon. member, whose loss the House had to deplore, might, he hoped, entitle him to the melancholy satisfaction of saying a few words on this distressing occasion. Though no person better knew, or more highly estimated, the private virtues of Mr. Horner than himself, yet, as he was not sure that he should be able to utter what he felt on that subject, he would speak of him only as a public man. Of all the estimable qualities which distinguished his character, he considered as the most valuable, that independence of mind which in him was so remarkable. It was from a consciousness of that independence, and from a just sense of its importance, that, at the same time that he was storing his mind with the most various knowledge on all subjects connected with our internal economy and foreign politics,
849848Sir S. Romilly
 expressed his determination to postpone his opinion on the bill until it should be committed. He trusted that whatever clauses honourable gentlemen intended to propose would be submitted in that stage. As the bill now stood, it was confessedly an imperfect measure; but, after the committal, he most hope that the bill would not be varied in after stages.Sir John Newport
 said, he held in his hand a petition from the incorporated trades of the borough of Irvine praying for parliamentary reform. Seeing the learned lord advocate of Scotland in his place, he wished to ask him, whether the information which he had formerly stated was correct or not, namely, that the schoolmaster and another individual at Glasgow, who were taken up and confined two nights and two days in a dirty place, with a damp unwholesome floor, had been discharged, there being no foundation for any charge against them?Lord Cochrane
872 said, he could have no difficulty whatever in stating, that the persons taken up at Glasgow had not been taken up for having convened together for the purpose of considering as to the mode in which parochial relief might be obtained. They had been taken up on a charge of treasonably conspiring against the government. It would be improper in him to state to the House what discoveries had been made against any of the individuals arrested—it would be improper towards the individuals themselves, as it might create an impression against them in the public mind, and it would be improper with reference to the carrying on the public business of the country. With respect to a question put to him the other
872The Lord Advocate
 said, that the learned lord had not returned an answer to his question.Lord Cochrane
 stated, that he had received no information whatever, whether all or any of the persons taken up, on the charge of a treasonable conspiracy, were liberated or not. But he knew the magistrates would not detain one moment any person against whom there was no foundation of a charge. But he had received no information on the subject.The Lord Advocate
876 observed, that the petition before them called the debates of the House
876Mr. Wynn
 stated, that he had received no information whatever to enable him to answer the question of the noble lord.The Lord Advocate
873 said, he had received a letter from Glasgow, informing him that the persons apprehended, and afterwards liberated, had been taken up on the evidence of spies. In this letter it was said, that a spy came lately into a room, where the writer of it, and some other persons were assembled, and declared that a king was of no use. The person using this language was taken before a magistrate, when it turned out that he was a hired spy, and the person who had him taken up was told that if he did not leave the court instantly he should be put into prison. This spy called himself a loyal man. This put him in mind of Mr. John Gibbs, who when he had incurred a heavy penalty for an offence against the excise laws, pleaded that he was a loyal man, and this was found an efficacious plea. Mr. Limbrick, the police
873Sir F. Burdett
 wished to know, whether he might present at once a number of petitions which he held in his hand?Lord Cochrane
 said, he would present them separately. He then presented a petition from Grooby, which, he observed, was nearly in the form of others which had been rejected by the House, but the words which had been deemed most objectionable had been left out.Lord Cochrane
 said, he did not know what words had been left out of the petition, but he imagined there could not be any more objectionable than those which remained, viz. the sentence which stated that the House did not in a constitutional manner represent the people.Lord Castlereagh
874 said, it would be more satisfactory if, on the rejection of a petition, it were understood what were the words really objected to. In the present instance, the petitioners asserted that the House did not represent the people, which was the grievance they complained of, and without asserting which it was in vain for them to approach the House. The ground on which the House rejected petitions in general was, that the petitioners, instead of stating their grievances plainly, went it of their way, and inserted words which might be offensive to those who heard them. Such an objection could not be
874Sir F. Burdett
 said, he did not pretend accurately to recollect the words of the petitions formerly rejected, but as far as his memory went, the ground on which they were rejected was, the assertion that the House did not represent in a constitutional manner the people of England.Lord Binning
 said, that the statement of the hon. member was one of the best arguments for the rejection of the present petition, as it showed the extent to which insults on the House would be carried, if once admitted by them. If there were precedents for the admission of such petitions, there were also precedents for their rejection, and the House would judge whether it was not wiser to assert its own dignity, than to submit to reiterated insults.Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald
877 said, that in rising to move for leave to bring in a bill for the purpose of altering a branch of the Game laws, of which he gave notice on a former evening, he should confine himself to a brief explanation of the object he had in view. By the 28th of Geo. 2nd, it was made illegal for any person to sell game. He wished to repeal that act, in order to place this branch of the game laws on a different footing. When he introduced a similar bill last session, it was facetiously said, that is ought to be intituled a bill to encourage poaching; but, if he thought it would facilitate that most pernicious practice—if he were not convinced that it would tend to put it down—he never would have introduced the bill. His great object was, to put down, not to augment, an increasing evil, which first initiated the British peasantry into the commission of crimes. That act of prevent the sale of game was not as ancient as the game laws; it was,
877Colonel Wood
878 differed entirely from the hon. member, and regretted that be had again brought forward a measure which so entirely failed last session. If the present system of the game laws were unsettled it might be found difficult to settle them again. He thought the better way would be to appoint a committee, consisting of a few sensible and legal men, to inquire into the subject, and then, perhaps, something might be done. He, however, considered the existing system as highly beneficial, because it induced gentlemen of property to live on their estates; and as the present measure seemed calculated to destroy that bond of union which subsisted between them and their tenants, he should feel it his duty to divide the
878Sir C. Burrell
 thought, that the game laws should remain untouched. There were rights of forest and rights of chase, which were very valuable, but which would be affected by any alteration.Mr. Long Wellesley
 agreed, that if any punishment were to be inflicted, it ought to fall on the wealthy man, and not on the poor tool whom his riches had seduced into an illegal act.Sir F. Burdett
 recommended that some regular and connected system should be adopted, and that the House should not resort to temporary measures.Mr. Wynn
, in reply, observed, that he did not wish to go back to those good old times of Henry 8th, as some seemed to think them, when it was necessary to have a licence to shoot crows. It was certain, that at present pheasants were to be bought and sold in almost every poulterer's shop. He hoped that the House would allow the bill to be brought in and printed, and afterwards they could alter its provisions as they pleased.Colonel Wood
880, in rising to make the motion of which he had given notice, called the attention of the House to the legislative provision which had been made for continuing the parliament in the event of the demise of the Crown. On such occasions formerly a dissolution of parliament always took place, and all offices held under the Crown were no longer considered to belong to those who had previously possessed them. By the 7th of William 3rd, and afterwards by the 5th of Queen Anne, the inconvenience which had been experienced from the dissolution of the parliament at such a period, was removed, and it was enacted, that the parliament in being at the time of the demise of the Crown should continue to sit for the ensuing six months, unless they were sooner dissolved by the successor; and in the event of their being no parliament at the time of the demise of the Crown, the last parliament was again to assemble and continue to discharge its functions for the succeeding six months, unless sooner dissolved by the successor to the Crown. In like manner, by law, the privy counsellors and all the high officers of state, did not lose their offices on the demise of the Crown, but continued to hold them till the successor was pleased to make some alteration. It was his object to extend the provisions of those laws to all offices held under the crown, civil as well as military. There
880Mr. Ponsonby
881 said, the course proposed by the right hon. gentleman was so fair* that he could have no difficulty in giving his consent to the bringing in of the bill. He would not debate its merits now, as a more convenient opportunity might occur for the discussion of them on the second reading. He wished to be understood as only concurring in its provisions, so far as they went to guard
881Lord Castlereagh
882, in an animated speech, called the attention of the House to the distressed State of the Lunatic Poor in Ireland, from the want of proper asylums to receive them. In Dublin there was one institution open for their reception; there was another of this description in Cork; one or two other counties had similar asylums for the reception of the lunatic poor; and there was one in Tipperary, which contained about forty persons. With the exceptions of the institutions of Dublin, Cork, and Tipperary, there was not provision made for more than a hundred persons in this unhappy state in all Ireland, In consequence of this it had become a common practice to bring unfortunate creatures to the door of the institution in Dublin, and there leave them in the most deplorable state, without ascertaining whether or not it was possible for them to be received. In consequence of the report made by gentlemen appointed to investigate the state of Ireland in this respect, he had determined to inquire into it himself, and the result was, he had found, that in twenty four counties in Ireland, not a single cell was provided for the reception of lunatics. It must be felt, that it was not right these unhappy beings should go abroad free from restraint, yet this, was, in many instances, the case,
882Mr. Peel
 seconded the motion. He said, that considering the great number of valuable members who were by neglect lost to society, it was a most prudent measure to provide for lunatics; for leaving out of view every feeling of humanity, it was an economical proceeding to erect lunatic ayslums, as they might be the means of curing, and thus preserving to the community many persons who would otherwise lead a life burthensome to themselves and injurious to society.Mr. Wynn
 felt great satisfaction in giving his support to the measure now proposed. Nothing, he observed, could be more lamentable than the state of the lunatic poor in Ireland. Except in Dublin, Cork, and one or two other places, there actually did not exist the least accommodation for such persons throughout Ireland, and in transmitting these poor creatures to the general infirmary, there were some instances of their limbs having been so injured, by being tightly bound down in the vehicles in which they were brought to town, as to render amputation of the limb necessary. Those in a state of idiotcy were the subject of public sport amongst children, while the unruly maniacs were suffered to go about the country, the terror of the neighbourhood in which they resided.Mr. Rose
 agreed, that there could be but one opinion on the subject; but there were many Counties in England, as Hampshire for instance, in which there was no receptacle for lunatics. If, however, provisions were made for the accommodation of lunatics in Ireland, he hoped the expense would be borne locally by the counties, and not by the nation at large. It had been called a matter of congratulation that there were no poor-laws in Ireland; and that afforded a stronger reason why the expense of providing for lunatics should be local.Mr. Baring
 stated, that in England the overseers of parishes were obliged to provide for lunatics, and find a place of proper reception for them; and that a bill was now about to be passed, to render the jurisdiction of magistrates more effectual in this respect.Mr. Rose
 said, that there had been added an establishment called the Richmond Lunatic Asylum, to the House of Industry in Dublin, which was most convenient as a district establishment; but from the opinion prevalent that there was thus Created abundant accommodation for all the Irish lunatics in Dublin, it had occasioned many more to be forwarded than could be possibly accommodated.Mr. Peel
 said, that the indulgence which it was the practice of the House to grant with regard to the presentation of many petitions at a time, was very indefinite. If the member who presented them could take on him to state that they were all precisely in the same terms, it had been sometimes the custom to receive seven or eight at once; but if there were any variations in them, it was the safer and the better course to present them one by one.The Speaker
 concurred with the hon. and learned gentleman, that the doors of the House should be thrown open to petitions, and that there should be no cavilling or scrupulous examination of the language in which they were conveyed, so as to find out insults or disrespect. The House had acted on this principle, and had extended to petitioners every indulgence. It had heard from night to night charges of corruption. This allegation, which was now objected to, however, was not a matter of feeling, but a challenge of competency. The hon. and learned gentleman had allowed that he would object to a petition which averred that the House of Commons did not legally represent the nation, but the word constitutional, here used, was exactly the same thing. If the House did not constitutionally represent the people, its sitting was unconstitutional, and its acts were not binding, nor could it legally impose taxes. He, therefore, would oppose the reception of the petition, as impeaching the power of the House, and denying its title to exercise its functions, particularly the important function of taxation.Mr. Bathurst
 was surprised that the hon. gentleman, who was so partial to the preservation of game—who knew so well that the sports of the field induced gentlemen of fortune to visit their estates frequently—should have introduced a measure which would have the effect of increasing the practice of poaching in a ten-fold degree, so long as any of those species of animals, recognized by the game laws, continued to exist. The system which he spoke of as modern, was three hundred years old, and therefore was supported by the wisdom and experience of their ancestors. In the reign, of Henry 8th an act was passed prohibiting all persons, except members of the royal household, from selling game. That act continued in force till the time of James 1st, when the prohibition was extended to persons of every class and degree. The game laws might, not unaptly, be compared to an old park-fence; which, though it was somewhat irregular in its form, answered all the purposes for which it was intended, although it might not please the eye so much as a neat fence, which was often less useful than ornamental. He denied that the game laws were made exclusively for the rich, and contended that the system generally contributed equally to public happiness and public good. If it were thought necessary to make any alterations, he would suggest whether increased penalties might not deter from poaching, and also, whether it would not be prudent to inflict a penalty upon qualified persons who purchased game.Mr. G. Bankes
 observed, that the present question afforded him an opportunity of alluding to a subject which he thought deserved the serious consideration of his majesty's ministers. Previously to the dissolution of the present parliament, he was of opinion that some prospective measure ought to be adopted with respect to the continuance of the ensuing one, in the event of the early demise of the Crown. He was aware, that for parliament to prolong its own existence was unconstitutional, but the peculiarity of the case, he apprehended, would justify some step being taken to prevent the necessity of immediately re-electing the next parliament upon the demise of the Crown, which must otherwise be done.Mr. Brougham
871 said, he held in his hand a petition, praying for parliamentary reform and retrenchment, and complaining generally of grievances, signed by 2,736 inhabitants of the parish of St. Leonard, Shoreditch. The petition prayed generally for such reform as might seem most agreeable to the House. It was signed by most of the respectable householders of the parish. He had to state to the House, that very considerable obstructions had been thrown in the way of the signing this petition, though he did not mean to say that force had been used to prevent persons from signing. One person had made himself most active on this occasion—he was a police magistrate, a person receiving money from government. The House ought to be extremely jealous of the interference of persons in such a situation to prevent the people from exercising their rights. The individual who had used his utmost efforts to impede the
871Mr. Brougham
 denied that the expressions were the same as those used in a former petition which was rejected. In that former petition it was said, that the House of Commons, in no legal, rational, or constitutional sense, represented the people. He did not defend the correctness of these words, although he had voted for the reception of the petition in which they were contained; but he thought there was so wide a difference between them, and those used on the present occasion, that hon. members who were for the rejection of the former might consistently agree to receive this. When it was said that the House did not legally represent the nation, the phrase might be construed to imply, that it had not the power to make laws to bind the people; but when it was stated that the representation was not constitutional, it was merely a mode of declaring that there had been departures from the constitution which ought to be corrected by bringing it back to its former purity. In short, it was nothing else but a way of stating the argument for reform. He did not think the argument was skilfully stated when conveyed in this language; but it ought to be recollected, that the petitioners were not learned clerks, and could not be expected to speak on abstruse subjects with perfect strictness and technical precision. The question was, not whether they were formally correct in their expressions, but did they mean by these expressions to insult the House? If they did not (of which there was no evidence), their taking their own way of stating their own argument should not be made the ground of rejecting their petition. He wished rather to throw open the door to the prayers of the people, than to shut it. It was much better to receive a petition couched in loose, and incorrect language, where no disrespect was intended by it, than to incur the imputation of cavilling with the expressions and disregarding the complaints of the people.Mr. Brougham
 could not help thinking that the learned lord had not understood the question put to him by the noble lord. The learned lord had very properly deprecated all prejudging of the question of the individuals taken up, and stated that an answer to the question, whether the oath was one of the papers found on these individuals would be prejudging their case. But in the question of the noble lord there was nothing about any papers or oath, but whether it was true or not, that the persons arrested had been in fact discharged.Mr. Brougham
 thought the petition could only be considered as an expression of the opinions of the petitioners as to the state of the representation. That the House virtually represented the people, the petitioners acknowledged, by applying to the House for the change in the representation which they desired. He thought the petition, therefore, should be received as an expression, perhaps foolish, perhaps absurd, but not dishonest, of the petitioners opinions.Mr. Calcraft
 said, that ever since he had the honour of a seat in that House, he had declared himself anxious to obtain For Ireland an identity of legislation with Great Britain; but still he entirely concurred with the right hon. gentleman, and would support his motion.Mr. Croker
 was astonished, considering the tenour and spirit of the game laws, how the hon. gentleman who had just spoken could interpret them favourably. From beginning to end they were opposed to every thing like English liberty—they were most unjust, and most impolitic. He wished they were done away altogether, and a different system introduced. It would tend to promote the growth of game, and to extend the sports of gentlemen. He would be better pleased, if a bill were brought in to punish the wealthy buyer of game, instead of the miserable retailer.Mr. Curwen
 read a part of the petition which had been presented from Bristol, on the first day of the session, and received by the House. That petition stated, that the House represented in no constitutional or rational sense the people of England—that the constitution was subverted, and that taxation without representation was slavery. It also stated that the debates of the House were a mockery, and only-served to weary the public patience. Another petition, which had been received, said, "If the House had been really the representatives of the people, instead of being the tools of a grasping oligarchy of borough-mongers, &c." As the House had received petitions containing such words as these, it could hardly with any appearance of consistency reject a petition so much less offensive, as that on the table was.Mr. Lambton
 said, that if it were once received and acknowledged that the House did not in a constitutional manner represent the people, it must also be allowed that it existed in contradiction to the law. What might be inferred from this was pretty plain, and indeed the inference was actually made by some of the petitioners. His hon. and learned friend had said that considerable allowance was to be made for unlearned men and simple persons, and so on. Now, if they looked at the uniformity of these petitions, and the manner in which they were drawn up, they must be convinced that they were not the productions of simple and unlearned men, but were penned by "learned clerks," who knew pretty well what they were about when preparing them.Mr. J. W. Ward
886s.s.s.885s.884 said, that in moving for an inquiry into the amount and state of human food in Ireland, with a view to ascertain whether or not it might be expedient to prohibit distillation in that country, it was far from his intention to embarrass government in any respect, by proposing any measure, the tendency of which would be to produce a diminution of revenue. He was aware that inquiries of this nature, were in general calculated to excite very serious apprehensions in the minds of the people, and, perhaps, to aggravate the evil they were intended to remedy. But there had occurred some circumstances in Ireland of so unpleasant a nature, that he conceived an inquiry of the nature now proposed to be absolutely necessary. It was with satisfaction he had lately heard in the House, that the government had no reason for supposing the existence of any political disaffection in Ireland; and he was convinced that the reasons for excepting Ireland from the suspension bill were well founded. Riots, however, of a very serious nature had lately taken place in Ireland, and at one place in particular where provisions were lower than at most others, Ballina, four persons were killed the other day, and seventeen wounded. The disturbance had its origin in severe distress, and in an apprehension that by any exportation of the food they possessed to other places, they would themselves be subjected to famine. This might be a mistaken idea, but he was convinced that
886s.s.s.885s.884Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
889888s.s.s.s.s.s.887 was most willing to admit that there was nothing in the manner in which this subject had been taken up by the right hon. gentleman calculated to embarrass the government either of this country or of Ireland, or to produce an undue impression on the public mind; and that if by the agitation of the subject in the House, that sort of salutary apprehension should be produced which might lead to a more sparing use of human food, so far from being prejudicial it might be productive bf considerable advantage. This was the very last subject respecting which government ought to suffer themselves to be unduly actuated by public impressions. Government ought not even to be actuated by the impressions of honest and well meaning men, who had not the same means of information as themselves. If they were satisfied that the stopping of the distilleries would not be productive of such advantages as would compensate for the mischief resulting from such a measure, they ought to resist it. He agreed with the right hon. gentleman, that if a stoppage of the distilleries could increase the supply of food, every consideration merely of a financial nature ought to give way. The loss of revenue, from the encouragement which would be given to illicit distillation by the cessation of legal distillation was not to be put in competition with the subsistence of the people. The two things to be considered were—1st, If there was reason to apprehend a deficiency in the supply of human food in Ireland; and 2dly, If there was reason for apprehending a deficiency, whether a prohibition of distillation would have a tendency to increase the supply. He thought he should be able to satisfy the right hon. gentleman and the House that a prohibition of distillation would not lead to the result which he anticipated from it. The question was not merely whether they would prohibit distillation in Ireland. The trade with this island was free, and consequently such a prohibition would give to the English distiller a preference in the Irish marker. He might be told, indeed, that it was possible to stop also the intercourse between the two countries. But would it be expedient not merely to stop all legal distillation in Ireland, but also to suspend all intercourse between the two countries in articles the produce of either? But he would confine himself to the question, whether the
889888s.s.s.s.s.s.887Mr. Peel
 said, that as a part of Scotland was in a condition not less distressing than Ireland, he should take that opportunity of calling the attention of his majesty's ministers to that part of the kingdom. From letters which he had received from the Highlands, it appeared that the crops had almost entirely failed; and what they would do in the summer before the harvest came in, the people did not know; they apprehended, indeed, something little less than famine. It was impossible in some places for the farmers to find corn to put in the ground. He had forwarded several petitions through the secretary of state to the Prince Regent, for the prohibition of distillation from grain—one particularly from a most respectable body of men, the farmers of Fifeshire, who petitioned much against their own interests, merely from a feeling for the distresses of the people. On that question he should say nothing; but should suggest to the ministers the necessity of inquiries respecting the quantity of food in the Highlands.Sir R. Fergusson
891 said, that undoubtedly ministers would have been greatly wanting in their duty, if they had not made every inquiry in their power respecting the means of subsistence in the whole kingdom. In that part of the king-
891The Chancellor of the Exchequer
892 said, it was to be regretted that the liberal ideas of the chancellor of the exchequer respecting the trade in corn
892Mr. Baring
 gave it as his opinion, that much barley and other corn was now so low in price in Ireland and was so unfit for human subsistence, that if legal distillation was suspended, the farmer would dispose of it to the illicit distiller.General Mitchell
 did not see how, according to the statement of a right hon. gentleman, the distiller, if distillation was suspended, could so immediately render his stock on hand unfit for food. A great portion of what was used for distillation was not malted. He allowed that spirits might be more necessary in Ireland than here, both from the habits of the people and the nature of their potatoe diet; but to obtain spirits it was not necessary to consume grain: they might be obtained from sugar.Mr. Calvert
 explained, that as by malting grain was made unfit for ordinary purposes it would be the interest of the distillers to subject their corn to that process previously to any prohibition on distillation being put in force. As for distillation from sugar, those who were acquainted with the prejudices of the Irish people were aware how much they preferred corn whiskey to sugar whiskey. It would be very difficult to get them to consume the latter. Unfortunately, even now the prejudice was strong in favour of illegal whiskey.Mr. Peel
 said, that in England less than one-fifth of the corn used in distilleries was malted.Mr. Calvert
 said, that this was true also with regard to Ireland, but all grain used for that purpose which was not malted was crushed in mills, which made it unfit for any other purpose. He could state, that in Ireland the quantity of grain unfit for any thing but distillation was very great, and that, especially in the part of the country with which he was connected, the farmers had actually sold a great part of their inferior grain to distillers, though It had been argued in some publications that the grain was not used by those persons.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 wished to know why the distilleries had not been stopped in October last.Mr. Baring
 said, that no distilleries had begun to work till December. It was to be remembered also, that the Irish government had no power to stop the distilleries by proclamation. It might be said they should have assumed that power; but that would not have been enough, for they would have done nothing, unless they had suspended the article of the Union giving a free intercourse between England and Ireland, which they did not think themselves warranted in doing.Mr. Peel
894s. said, he should acquiesce in the sense of the House by withdrawing his motion. He observed that the amount of the danger he had stated load not been controverted, but the objection to the motion had rested on two grounds: 1st, that there could not much good result from stopping the distilleries, because two-thirds of the supply of the year had been manufactured; and 2nd, that if much time was allowed to inquire, a great quantity of corn would be speedily rendered unfit for all purposes but that of distilling. He should then be disposed to recommend that an immediate stop should be put to distillation, instead of proceeding on an inquiry. As for the corn in the distiller's hands, there was none of it in a state which rendered it impossible to convert it into food for the people. As to the danger from the encouragement to illicit distillation, he thought it had been much over-rated. The 200 informations for this practice in one country, must, he thought, have been of old date, probably of five months standing, for when oats were at 39894s.Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
 said, that no correspondence had ever passed between him and any one else on the subject of the new coinage.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that there was none whatever from the treasury.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed the great dread which he entertained of the fluctuations likely to take place from a continuance of the present system, which permitted the bank to make unlimited issues of paper.Lord Cochrane
 said, that he did not precisely know that any correspondence had taken place with the chancellor of the exchequer, but he believed that a correspondence did take place with some one belonging to the treasury.Mr. Brougham
896§d.d.d.s.d.s.d.;s.l.s.,l.s.l.s.,d.s.d.s.s.895d.s.s.d.;s.d.s. seeing the right hon. gentleman, the master and worker of his majesty's Mint, in his place, begged leave to move for a copy of all correspondence that had taken place between the chancellor of the exchequer and certain magistrates in the country, relative to the issuing of the New Silver Coinage. He understood that this correspondence alluded to the value of the old silver currency, and regulated the mode of receiving it in exchange for the new coin, and he wished to be informed in what manner the regulations and promises laid down in that correspondence had been fulfilled or neglected. Notwithstanding the assurance given, either by the chancellor of the exchequer, or by the master of the Mint, that all smooth shillings and sixpences would be taken in exchange, provided they were of standard fineness, he had understood another criterion had been adopted.—Having touched on the subject of the new coin, he hoped he should be excused if he offered a few observations on some points, intimately connected with the currency of the country. He was fully disposed to give credit to the Mint for the celerity with which the great work of the new coinage had been effected, and even for the mode of its operation; but he could not avoid expressing some doubts of its ultimate success. The difference in value between the Mint coinage and the bank tokens was very great. The former was issued at the rate of 5896§d.d.d.s.d.s.d.;s.l.s.,l.s.l.s.,d.s.d.s.s.895d.s.s.d.;s.d.s.Mr. Brougham,
 in explanation, said, that the right hon. gentleman had quite misunderstood him. He never complained of the expense, what he said was entirely against the bank, and that as to the initials the cardinal's case came nearest.Mr. Brougham
 felt it his duty to bear testimony as to the general satisfaction afforded by the manner in which the exchange was effected.Mr. Curwen
l.900899898s.s.,s.897 said, that he had heard of the inquiries made in his absence by the hon. and learned gentleman, as to when he would be likely to make his appearance in the House; that being anxious to treat every gentleman with respect, he attended in his place the next night, and every succeeding one, and until now no step had been taken. He declared his willingness to give every possible satisfaction with regard to all matters connected with the department to which he had the honour to belong. The motion now brought forward by the hon. and learned gentleman was for a copy of a correspondence between the chancellor of the exchequer and certain magistrates in the country, on the issuing of the new coin, but of such a correspondence he was not aware. This was the first time he had ever heard of it, and he did not believe that it existed. The hon. and learned member had spoken of some rules laid down in that correspondence for regulating the exchange, which rules had been departed from to the great injury of the public. There again he must profess his
l.900899898s.s.,s.897Mr. Wellesley Pole
890 said, he looked at the question before the House with peculiar interest, as it affected two subjects which he had much at heart—the freedom of intercourse between England and Ireland, and the total suppression of illicit distillation. If it could be shown that there was an absolute necessity for the restriction of distillation from grain as a measure to secure the means of subsistence to the people, undoubtedly the two other questions must give way. The question before them was, whether it was imperative on them to interfere for the purpose of securing a sufficiency of food to the people of Ireland. In the first place, it was to be considered what the pressure upon the people was; and in the next place, what were the best means of obviating that pressure. In some parts of Ireland the pressure was greater than in others, from the causes correctly stated by the right hon. gentleman who spoke last, and especially the want of internal communication. Until he had heard the right hon. gentleman, he owned he had considerable doubts whether it would not be proper to interfere. But after the statement he had heard of the quantity of spirits already produced, he thought the measure would be ineffectual, and he had no longer any doubts on the opinion he
890Sir J. Newport
907 having expressed his
907Lord Castlereagh
 thought it would be more advisable, as there were certainly many real signatures, to suffer the petition to lie on the table. The noble lord had referred to a bill before the House to prevent seditious meetings; but he was mistaken in the object of the bill. It would at any time be competent for seven householders to call a meeting; and consequently such a meeting as that at which the petition was adopted might have been held, even if that bill had passed into a law.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the fancy of any hon. member as to the hand writing of signatures, could not, he conceived, be a sufficient ground for the rejection of a petition. As to the disorderly conduct of the meeting, what had it amounted to? A blue flag had been displayed which the hon. member stated to have created much noise. Without something more solid to support his allegation, the hon. member should not have brought it forward.Sir F. Burdett
 said, there were many respectable signatures to the petition, though he had not thought it his duty to examine the whole of them. There were certainly many different hands, and if half a dozen names were written by one person, it would not certainly vitiate the whole. What had been said by the hon. member rendered the petition worthy of some consideration. He had said, that all the magistrates of that district were hostile to the petition. If the bill before the House had passed, no such meeting could have been held, and consequently no such petition could have come up to the House.Lord Folkestone
 read an extract of a letter, by which he was informed that many names were affixed in the same hand-writing. He thought it rather singular that the people of Horsham should complain of the state of the representation, seeing that a burgess of Horsham, being a freeholder, had a right to vote for no less than six members of parliament—two for Horsham, two for the Rape of Bramber, and two for the county of Sussex.Sir C. Burrell
s.ss said, that the House and the country ought always to keep in view, that a great proportion of the wages of labour of the country were paid out of the poor rates. The farmers, from a system, the bad effects of which had been already too much felt, had been long in the habit, in many parts of the country, of paying a great proportion of the wages of farming labour in the shape of poor rates. This accounted in a great measure for the rapid rise in the amount of those rates from one and a half to upwards of 7 millions. He was convinced, that in cases where 19s.ssLord Castlereagh
910s.s. said, that he could not suffer the petitions to be laid on the table without stating a circumstance of a most interesting nature, and which, in some degree, had induced him to give the notice which he had done that night, relative to the equalization of the interest paid by the public, for the loan of depreciated paper, to the diminution which had taken place by the operation of that paper on all landed property and stock in trade. He would give it as his decided opinion, founded on all that he had read and heard on the subject of the poor laws, that legislative enactments, confined to their operations alone, would prove wholly unavailing. The House must look deeper for the cause of the evil. The circumstances to which he particularly alluded was, the state of the Manchester manufacturers of goods for foreign markets, all of which goods he could prove were paid for, not by the consumer abroad, but by the landed interest here, in the shape of poor rates. He had only to mention in proof of this, that a piece of cotton stuff, for which the weaver was formerly paid 29910s.s.Lord Cochrane
911 said, he felt it his duty to protest against the doctrine held out by the noble lord. He was convinced, that when the fundholder was trenched upon, and through him honour and public faith were violated, the present distress would be increased ten-fold. He augured much from the present state of the funds, which held out a reasonable expectation that the monied interest would assist the landholders by way of mortgage, which could not be hoped for when the funds afforded 5 per cent, on money invested. He was convinced that any interference with the fundholder would therefore be an injury to the landholder also. He was surprised that the member for Carlisle, who was re-
911Sir C. Burrell
d.s.s.s. said, be allowed that in many instances in Manchester the weavers got no more than 7d.s.s.s.Sir O. Moselcy
 said, he had a petition to present on this subject from Horsham, in Sussex. He was not acquainted with that borough, but he understood that it had been adopted at a most orderly meeting, which had been assembled by individuals, in consequence of the bailiff refusing to call a meeting.Lord Folkestone
 observed, that the gross abuse of the right of petitioning had gone a great way to lower the authority of this valuable privilege of the subject. On the other hand, he should be very sorry if, on account of a fraud practised by a few they were to reject a petition which was really signed by many persons. This, however, ought to be inculcated on the people, that there was nothing so fatal to their own right as an abuse of it.Lord Castlcreagh
916 thought it highly proper to put an end to a practice which involved a violation of the privileges of the House, and might bring the right of petitioning itself into dispute. If the hon. baronet
916Mr. Wynn
917 said, he had no doubt
917Sir C. Burrell
914 said, that as to the point of order on which he was appealed to, all
914The Speaker
 said, it might easily be conceived, that the persons who took the trouble to send round printed forms of petitions, would induce persons to express grievances which of themselves they would not discover. As to the form of petition recommended by the hon. and learned gentleman, it was not probable that it would be signed by many of the distressed population; but it would have the signatures of those who would reckon by weight if not by tale, viz. the magistracy, the clergy, and all those who suffer from the outrages liable to be committed by seditious meetings. He should not object to the petition lying on the table.Mr. Bathurst
 said, that the declaration of the noble lord, as to the petition before them, was very candid; but as to his argument to throw discredit on all petitions, from more than one name being in the same hand, he would put it to the good sense of the House, whether a petition containing 20 or 30,000 names was to be set down as of no weight, because one person (an enemy, he had a right to assume to the cause of the petition) had put a few names to it without authority? He did not approve altogether of the system which had been pursued with respect to petitions; he thought it would have been much wiser to let the people draw up their complaints in their own language; but he could not go the length of saying, that because they were couched in these terms, they were of no avail. As to many of the instances in which the signatures were in the same hand, he had no doubt that they perfectly expressed the wishes of those whose names were written. The signatures were frequently the names of persons who, though present and consenting, either could not write, or from being not much habituated to write, were not disposed to take the trouble. He spoke from having witnessed such scenes: while petitions were signing, he had seen persons apply to a man who was writing and was more expert than themselves, to sign for them: in very few cases indeed would it be found, that the names were written without the consent of those who bore them. As to the printed forms which were made use of, though he did not approve of them, they were not on that account to be supposed not to speak the sense of the people. He would put a case. Let the noble lord draw up a petition in favour of the gagging bill or the suspension of the Habeas Corpus, or in support of all his measures, and send them round the country, if he could obtain one tenth as many signatures as had been put to the petitions for reform, he would then agree that by such means the sense of the people could not be estimated.Mr. Brougham
s.s. said, he agreed with his hon. friend who had last spoken as to the manner in which the poor rates operated, lie could not let this opportunity pass without protesting as well against the proposal of the noble lord (Cochrane), as that of the hon. baronet (sir C. Burrell), who had professed so much abhorrence of the noble lord's proposition. The difference between the noble lord's project for reducing the interest of the debt, and the hon. baronet's proposal for increasing the quantity of the circulating medium, was only the difference between two modes of bankruptcy, or as had been well expressed by a celebrated writer on these subjects, the difference between secret fraud and open violence. For what distinction could there really be, between taking boldly a certain proportion of his annuity from the creditor, and making that annuity worth so much the less, by an increase of the paper circulation? He, for his own part, did not see more good faith or justice in one proposition than in the other. Though it was with hesitation that he differed from so respectable an authority as that of his hon. friend (sir O. Moseley), he was afraid that he had under-rated the distresses in the manufacturing districts; for, from the inquiries which he (Mr. B.) had felt it his painful duty to make on this subject, he was persuaded that the average rate of wages was not more than 3s.s.Mr. Brougham
 said, that in many petitions which had been presented to the House for reform, there had been a great many signatures in the same hand. As to the petition from Carlisle, out of 6 or 7,000 signatures, there were not more than 5 or 600 genuine ones. He believed that very few, if any, householders had signed it.Sir James Graham
 said, that though the names of the most respectable persons in and about Carlisle were affixed to that petition, he was assured it was without their consent.Sir J. Graham
 was glad that the noble lord had made the observation, as it gave him an opportunity of stating, that though it might apply to parishes purely agricultural, it could not apply to the parishes in question. The persons obtaining relief from them were nearly all engaged in the stone trade. He did admit that a great part of the wages of labour in many parts of the country were paid out of the poor rates. He was decidedly of opinion that the political state of the country had, in a great measure, increased the poor rates to what they at present were, and not the idleness of the people.Mr. Calcraft
 said, he would give his attendance on the committee, since it had pleased the House to nominate him in the room of his right hon. friend, and would do his best to promote its objects.Mr. Calcraft
908s.s.s. said, he held in his hands two petitions on the subject of the Poor Laws, and he wished to call the attention of the noble lord opposite to these petitions. He could assure the House from his own knowledge, that the statements in them were in no wise exaggerated. They were from two parishes in Dorsetshire: one of them was from the parish of Langton Matravers, consisting of 575 inhabitants, and 419 of these inhabitants were at present receiving parochial relief. The rate amounted at least to 18908s.s.s.Mr. Calcraft
 rose, at the desire of his right hon. friend, Mr. Tierney, to state on his behalf, that on account of ill health, he was prevented from being able to continue to attend the sittings of the Finance Committee. He was also desired to assure the House, that it was only on account of ill health, and by the advice of his physician, that his right hon. friend was prevented from attending.Mr. Calcraft
909 agreed with the noble lord in reprobating the pernicious practice which existed in many counties of mixing the wages of labour with the poor rates; but there were many parts of the country where the increase of the poor rates was not to be accounted for in this way. With respect to the fundholders, it was indeed true that a great part of the property of the country, for want of means of coming at it, had hitherto escaped from bearing its share. The more he considered the
909Mr. Curwen
 said, he differed from his hon. colleague, as to the petition from Carlisle; though that petition was not entrusted to him, he was assured that there were a great number of very respectable names to it. The meeting had been extremely orderly, the promoters of it endeavoured to the utmost of their power to get it called by authority; and not having succeeded, they did every thing to give it the appearance of a regular meeting.Mr. Curwen
 thought it would be hard on the petitioners to reject the petition because more than one name was in the same hand writing.Mr. Curwen
912 said, he was anxious to correct an erroneous idea which the noble lord (Cochrane) had either expressed or implied, namely, that it was in contemplation by way of reform in the poor laws, to propose to refuse relief to able bodied men, who were without employment. No such idea was entertained, he believed, by any member of the House, and certainly not by any member of the committee on the poor laws; the idea entertained by the committee, was to encourage industry, but by no means to refuse relief when industry was found unavailing. He agreed in what had been said by the noble lord (Castlereagh) as to the bad effects of mixing up poor rates with the wages of labour, but he denied that this system had been voluntary on the part of the landlords. When the population increased, and so many poor applied for parish relief, it was found impossible to give the same sum to the single and married men. If the unmarried men received as much as would support a; family, they would have spent more than they had any need for; but as it was impossible to make any distinction between single and married men, in the actual rate of wages, the price of labour was fixed at a low rate, and an additional sum was given to those who had families out of the parish rates. It was not often he agreed with the noble lord (Cochrane), but he must say, he concurred with him in thinking, that if that system was not put an end to, by which one species of property was exempted from all rates and taxes to which others were subject, and that too to an amount equal to all the rents of the kingdom, it must render all trade and industry wholly unproductive, and thus cut up the roots on which it depended. He did not wish to see any compulsory measure adopted, but he looked to the good sense of persons holding all species of property,
912Mr. Lockhart
 supported the petition, and thought mere informality should not prevent the people's approach to that House.Mr. Sharp
 said, it was true, that the persons who convened the meeting had applied for the town hall. The bailiff then requested that the requisition should be shown him in writing, and a requisition was accordingly shown him couched in general terms, whereupon he consented to grant the use of the hall. This having been done, the framers of the requisition published it with an addition to this effect —"We invite all labourers, mechanics, and apprentices to attend the meeting, as they are equally interested in its objects while they pay taxes on coals, candles, &c." On looking at the petition he found that there were from ten to twenty signatures in the same hand-writing. Whether that was an objection to receiving the petition he should not pretend to decide. As to the good order of the meeting, which had been praised, it was not very remarkable. A blue flag had been brought out of a public house; and when a gentleman present attempted to address the meeting, his voice was drowned in the clamour which often prevailed at such meetings. He was authorized by the magistrates, clergy, and the most respectable inhabitants of Horsham, to disavow their connexion with the petition, or the sentiments it contained.Mr. Hurst
 bore testimony to the orderly character of the meeting, but he was authorized to say that the bailiff had not refused the use of the town hall on the occasion.Sir T. Shelley
 said, it was a gross abuse of the privilege of petitioning, and an insult on parliament, to send petitions signed by a pretended number of names really written by others. He thought it necessary to put a stop to the practice, for if the subject on which these petitions turned came to be discussed, the number of the petitions might be much relied on, and they might be told that petitions were signed by thousands or millions which were really signed by very few persons. He could not consent to receive a petition upon which such a practice was used. The proof did not rest on fancy; besides the similarity of hand, there was the testimony of the hon. baronet (sir C. Burrell). The only mode of checking such a practice, was by rejecting the petition.Mr. Serjeant Best
s.s.918 rose to present a Petition from the town and neighbourhood of Belfast, praying for an immediate Stoppage of Distillation from Grain. The petition stated, that there was a danger of an absolute want of food for the population of Ireland, a danger much increased by the great quantity of grain consumed in distillation. It was signed by every respectable gentleman and freeholder or
merchant in the town of Belfast. From what he had heard the other night, he was afraid there was not much hope that a stoppage of the distilleries would take place, if he should move that the petition be taken into consideration. He should wish to know, however, whether the ministers were disposed to take any steps towards the stoppage of the consumption of corn in that manner. It had been urged, that if there was a scarcity of corn in Ireland, importation might take place; but it was to be considered, that other countries had also suffered, and that the chance of relief by drawing supplies from them was
s.s.918General Mitchell
 said, he was surprised at what he had just heard, because on a former evening when he had brought this question before the House, the gallant officer had pronounced a decided opinion against the stoppage of the distilleries even in Ireland. It was to be remarked that the petitioners, consisting not only of the gallant officer's constituents, but of the whole inhabitants of Belfast, prayed for the stoppage of the distilleries as a measure necessary to save them from famine. If this assertion of the petitioners was true, it was certainly the duty of parliament to interfere. As to the prices which the gallant officer had quoted, if he meant to adduce them as an argument to induce the House to stop distillation, he thought he was erroneous, for he had omitted to state the prices in the distressed district. For his own part, he thought the ministers had been much to blame in suffering, when they knew in February the state of Ireland with regard to provisions, the distillation from grain to continue.Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
d.d.920919 said, he had at first been of opinion, that it would not be expedient to stop distillation from grain, but that opinion had been shaken by what he had heard the other night, and still more so by the petition which had that night been pre-
d.d.920919Mr. Marryat
bonâ fide921 presented a petition from a number of settlers in New South Wales. The hon. gentleman observed, that he had taken some trouble to ascertain who the
bonâ fide921Mr. Bennet
 rose, not for the purpose of objecting to the motion, or of entering into any discussion on the subject, but to express his hope that the House would not allow any of the statements contained in the petition to operate unfavourably towards the character of the distinguished officer in whom was vested the government of that important colony. It was due to that gentleman to state that he had filled that important situation most respectably for many years. He had been appointed to it when he (lord C.) had the honour to hold the seals of the colonial department; the only recommendation which he possessed was his merit, and from all which he had since heard, he had completely fulfilled the expectations entertained of him in the administration of the government of that distant and important colony.Lord Castlereagh
in tota presented a petition from Arbroath, signed by all the respectable inhabitants of the place, and praying for a parliamentary reform, and a diminution of the public expenditure. Adverting to the assertion made the other evening by the lord advocate, that the people of Scotland were perfectly satisfied with the way in which they were at present represented, he declared that he differed from the learned lord in totaSir R. Fergusson
923 of Scotland, in explanation of his statement on a recent occasion, repeated, that it was his firm con-
923The Lord Advocate
924 maintained, that the enlightened part of the people of Scotland were so apprehensive of the dangers which might result from meddling with the existing system of representation, that they had serious thoughts of petitioning parlia-
924Mr. Douglas
 said, the counter declaration, as it was called, from Kirkaldy, opposed annual parliaments and universal suffrage—nothing else. It most decidedly prayed for that which was so painful a subject to the learned lord and his adherents—the most rigid economy and retrenchment.Sir R. Fergusson
panacea denied, that the petitions presented from Scotland in favour of parliamentary reform, afforded any fair criterion to judge of the well educated part of that country. The real fact was, that those reform petitions were sent to the manufacturing districts of Scotland, as they were in this country, where operating on the minds of men suffering under temporary distress, they were at once voted as a panaceaLord Binning
927 said, it would be better
927Lord Castlereagh
l.l.l.l.,l.l., in answer to a question respecting the forces in Ireland, said, that an assimilation had taken place in the services of the two countries, and a considerable saving had been made in the Irish regiments.l.l.l.l.,l.l.Mr. Peel
l. concurred most decidedly in the general merits of that species of force, than which none more constitutional could be called out in aid of the civil power. So impressed were his majesty's government with the efficiency of the yeomanry force, that unless under that conviction they would not have been justified in proposing to parliament the low estimates now in contemplation. With every disposition to afford the fullest means of efficiency, yet in time of peace he must think the allowance of 3l.Lord Castlereagh
 doubted if the yeomanry would be made more efficient by increasing their allowances. In Paris there were 40,000 national guards, well clothed, and in every respect a most efficient body of men, who did not cost the country sixpence, and whose pride it was to receive no pay.Mr. Baring
 said, the allowances could not be considered as a remuneration for the services of the yeomanry. Such an imperfect reward could not degrade them, and it was two much to expect that farmers and shopkeepers should bear all the expense of their equipments themselves.Mr. Robinson
l.929l. said, the House would recollect, that 50,000,000 of francs had been appropriated by the allies to the British and Prussian armies, for their services at Waterloo, over and above their respective shares of the contributions exacted from France. Some difficulties had interposed, and as this sum could not be conveniently furnished by the time at which it was desirable that it should be distributed, a hope had been held out that a grant in advance would be proposed to parliament. The regularity with which the French government had made its payments was such, that a csnsiderable part of the sum had been laid by, and the sum of 500,000l.929l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
930 took occasion to say a few words on the subject of an operation with which he had been connected, and which had certainly been noticed more out of that House than in it. What had been said would have little effect on him, as he was rather in the habit of consulting his own understanding to determine what it was his duty to do, than of regulating his conduct by the prejudices of others. In the present instance there had been much misapprehension as to the extent to which he had been engaged in the transaction alluded to. He had unquestionably put himself forward with other individuals, gentlemen of Holland, Hamburgh, and Paris, to advance such a loan to the French government as was necessary to enable it to fulfil its engagements. Doing this he had first considered what was his duty to his country. Though, as a merchant, his conduct was regulated by views of general interest, yet in every thing that related to politics his first care was to ascertain how his country would be affected by any transaction in which he was concerned. In the present case he was sure there had
930Mr. Baring
931 was persuaded no man could have acted with more candour or propriety than the hon. gentleman who had just sat down had done, in the transaction with the French government. Before he entered into any negociation with that power, he had candidly told the government of this country
931The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought government might avail themselves of the services of that loyal body the light horse volunteers, most seasonably, and at a very trifling expense. It was only necessary to have it made known to them, to create a strong disposition to muster, under the present circumstances, for the preservation of the public peace.Mr. Courtenay
l. contended, that the yeomanry ought not to be expected to maintain themselves. He wished their allowance to be fixed at 4l.Mr. Wynn
933 wished to remind the House of the object of the bill, and more particularly the clause in question. That object was to prevent the meeting of tumultuous assemblies, and to disperse them if they should have met. The hon. gentleman who spoke last, was afraid that the clause was of a nature to excite discontent against the legislature; but there had been a long experience of a law of a similar description, and that experience had demonstrated that no such effect was to be apprehended. The clause would operate as a preventive, and it therefore was not likely that the actual infliction of the punishment it enacted would ever take place. There had been no instance of any punishment under the act similar to the present bill, which passed at a former crisis, nor under the riot act. The apprehension of punishment had prevented the offence: but how could it be expected that seditious meetings could be dispersed, if, after an hour's notice given by a magistrate, it should still be necessary to enter into parlance with the multitude? It was necessary to have a definite penalty specified, in order that the parties might know what would be the consequence of their continuing longer
933The Attorney General
935934 saw no reason for
935934The Solicitor General
937 decidedly thought the act would be of no avail unless the punishment of death was the consequence to those who violated it. Not to disperse after the proclamation was read, was an act of the highest rebellion, and certainly en-
937Mr. Wynn
938 said, that many gentlemen had appeared disposed to seize upon the present opportunity to discuss the abstract question of crimes and punishments, but into that branch of the subject he should not enter. With regard to the riot act, he was of opinion that there was not on the statute book a law which had been more advantageous to the country. The question was not whether the principle of the riot act was applied to the present bill, but whether there was a necessity for the measure. There was this difference between the two laws, that the riot act was applicable to tumult which had commenced, or was intended: whereas the present bill was intended, not merely to stop the incipient but apprehended riot. An hon. baronet had stated to the House, that he had dispersed persons because he knew they had assembled for a riotous purpose.
938Lord Castlereagh
 condemned the distinction attempted to be set up between a mere non-obedience to the law, and a resistance to the law. Perhaps some of the hon. members opposite thought the meetings, on receiving the command of the magistrate to disperse, ought to deliberate whether they were to disperse or not.The Attorney General
 contended, that the word government had been used in every indictment for high treason from the earliest times. The persons indicted were charged with levying war against the king, and insurrection against the government. In all indictments in cases of sedition and seditious libels, the word government of the country was constantly used, as a phrase which no lawyer could misapprehend. He should not wish to have the word constitution left out; but if they were to leave out one of the two words, standing there as a lawyer, he would rather leave out the word constitution than the word government, as the latter word was better known in the language of the law.The Solicitor-General
 agreed that the word government was better known to the law than the word constitution, and that it was a proper expression in the clause, but he objected to the clause altogether, as the only end which it could be intended to answer was provided for in the former part of the bill, or by the law as it at present stood. It would be better to allow the justices to prevent such meetings when they thought the terms of the notice improper, than to give them the power of dissolving them when a great number of persons were collected together, the exercise of which would lead to disorder.Mr. Wynn
942 said, that the magistrates were by the same bill invested with a discretionary power as to Debating Societies. He did not think they incurred any greater risk, by granting them the discretion to determine whether the proceedings at a meeting, convened by seven householders, tended to parliamentary re-
942Lord Castlereagh
 conceived, that the clause was sufficiently explicit. If a man should make any treasonable proposition, he was to be seized, and not otherwise; if the meeting adopted the treason by obstructing the arrest of such a person, it was to be dispersed and not otherwise.The Attorney General
 said, that a magistrate would by this clause have the power which he possessed in every other case, with this difference, that he would act on what he heard as well as on what he saw. He was in the legal predicament of a constable or magistrate, acting "upon the view." He was also responsible for any abuse or misapplication of his power.The Solicitor General
 argued, that the clause did not give the magistrate a greater power than he had at present. By the existing law a magistrate, if he heard seditious words, might order the person uttering them into custody. If the meeting at which they were uttered exhibited any tumultous disposition, he might read the riot act, and order them to disperse. Did the committee mean to circumscribe the existing power of the magistrate? They must choose between leaving the magistrate his ordinary jurisdiction, or making these meetings sanctified places, in which treason and sedition might be vented with impunity.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that he felt as much contempt for those poor lunatics as any one could, but he expressed his conviction that the clause should stand, because they were making numerous proselytes.The Attorney General
 expressed his astonishment at the declaration made by the hon. gentleman, that in Scotland the voters for the counties were commensurate with the landholders. He denied that the people of Scotland were satisfied with the present state of the representation. What was meant by "the people of Scotland?" Those who had the right of voting in Scotland were, as a body, absolutely a nonenity compared with the entire numbers of the people. Many of the towns were perfectly close, the very electors electing themselves. Let the state of Glasgow or of Edinburgh be considered as an instance. Did the House think the inhabitants of either of those cities were satisfied to see its police and government in the hands of a dozen persons, self-elected, a few of whom went out annually and were reelected, and who constituted the voters for its representation? The great advance which Scotland had made in wealth and improvement during the last fifty years, demanded some amendment in the representation.Lord A. Hamilton
 explained. He had never asserted that the voters for counties in Scotland were commensurate with the landholders, but with those landholders who were freeholders.Mr. Boswell
 observed, that there was not a single petition from the landholders of Scotland in favour of parliamentary reform. In the counties, there were few-freeholders who were not voters, and though the roll was small, he believed there were generally as many voters as landholders who were freeholders. The petitions sent up on the subject he did not hold to be of much importance. Many of these petitions did not express the sentiments of those from whom they were supposed to come. They were sent up to London, like children to the Foundling-hospital, and left to their fate. From one little village, which did not contain more than 15 houses, a delegate had been sent to meet the other delegates lately assembled in the metropolis. Had all parts of Scotland engaged in the cause with the same ardour, the delegates sent to discuss the question of parliamentary reform would not have been fewer than 140,000.Mr. Boswell
 wished to know whether it was meant to assert, that when proclamation had been made under the riot act, it had always happened that the persons assembled dispersed in due time, and returned to their homes? For his part, he believed the contrary was very frequently the case. There having been no punishment under the law was no proof the offence had not occurred. In his opinion the severity of the punishment had prevented prosecutions. He trusted that his hon. and learned friend would propose the attention which he had suggested in the shape of an amendment.Mr. Barclay
943 thought no one could be so ignorant as to understand by the word government, the administration of the day. As it was only the perversion of the law by ignorant men which could be ap-
943Mr. Bathurst
 contended that the case put by the hon. and learned gentleman would not justify the magistrate in apprehending any person at a meeting which had been legally convened.Mr. Harvey
925l. observed, that the House must consider it extremely material to know whether it was true that the petitions from Scotland, in favour of parliamentary reform, did not speak the opinion of the people of that country. The learned lord went the length of saying, that they were adverse to that measure—that they were not only not zealous for its adoption, but most anxious that it should not be even entertained. Another hon. gentleman declared that the sound part of the Scottish nation were preparing to petition against the extension of the elective franchise. From whom, he begged to ask, would these petitions proceed? Why, from the few who monopolized that right against the many under the present system excluded from the enjoyment of that privilege. What would be thought in this country of a petition from the holders of burgage tenures against parliamentary reform? Would it receive any serious consideration? There was no very great difference between such a petition and one from the freeholders of Scotland, respecting the right of representation. A man might have 20,000925l.Mr. Brougham
932 rose and said, he must again call the attention of the House to these atrocious clauses. That their being found in the riot act of George 1st, was no ground at all for introducing them in this; the preamble of that act stating it as made against "rebellious riots, and tumults," the preamble to the present bill "that such meetings had been used to the danger and disturbance of the public peace." That, indeed, all the riot acts in which capital punishments had been awarded, went on the ground of outrage carried to a length approximating to rebellion. The first of them, 2nd and 3rd Edward 6th, cap. 5, was enacted after the rebellions of York, Devon, and Norfolk, all commencing in simple riot; the latter of 30,000 men, who beat the king's army under the marquis of Northampton, and were with difficulty overcome by Warwick. That this act was repealed 1st Mary, c. 1, of which act Mr. Gurney read from the preamble, "forasmuch as the state of every king standeth and consisteth more assured by the love and favour of the subject toward the sovereign, than in the dread and fear of laws made with rigorous pains and extreme punishments, &c. whereby people are trapped and snared, yea, many times for words only without fact or deed done or perpetrated." —Mr. Gurney stated, that the acts of the 2nd Mary and of Elizabeth against riots,
932Mr. Gurney
 hoped, before a permanent vote was come to on this subject, that the noble lord would consider of the propriety of making such an arrangement as would satisfy those who gave up their time for the service of the country. He was glad to hear these eulogiums on the yeomanry, as he thought they would hereafter furnish him with unanswerable arguments in favour of a further reduction of the army.Mr. Calcraft
 said, he was not then prepared to enter into the subject in detail: but after the committee had made their report, the House would be able to ascertain what was intended to be done by government. What he understood was, that they were then only called upon to consent to the numbers up to the 24th of June.Mr. Calcraft
, trusting that the committee above stairs would recommend a farther reduction of our enormous military establishment, would abstain from any observations till he saw the report. He was decidedly of opinion, that all the retrenchments which had been made were totally inadequate to the situation of the country.Mr. Curwen
 could not suffer this opportunity to pass without stating what he believed to be strictly the fact—that in the county of York there were 60,000 freeholders, while in Scotland there were not above 2,000. He did not profess to know what the feelings of the great body of the people of Scotland might be on this subject, but it would be a most singular occurrence if they should petition the House against a reform. He could not believe that they would adopt such an extraordinary proceeding until he actually saw the petitions on the table.Mr. Curwen
928 congratulated the House
928Mr. Curwen
 said, he was not quite old enough to remember the riots of 1780, but he should like to know if the riot act was found useful either then, or in 1793, when Dr. Priestley's house was burnt down. In 1780, as he was informed, the riot act was read many times without effect. He could not help thinking, that with men of common sense the apprehension of the penalty of transportation, which they knew would certainly be enforced, would go as far to deter them from disobedience to the law, as the threat of a higher punishment, which they might hope would not be inflicted on them. In the course of his experience he had always found, that when death was the punishment for slight offences the difficulty of prosecution was almost insuperable.Mr. John Smith
, of Cambridge, thought the punishment of transportation, the second in point of severity in our law, was sufficiently severe to deter from the offence against which they were now legislating; and of two punishments, both effectual to the object in view, it became them to take the lighter.Mr. J. H. Smyth
922 said, that his opinion with respect to the wishes of the people of Scotland for a reform in the representation perfectly coincided with that of his hon. friend. A very large majority of those who were most respectable for character and talents in that country, maintained the necessity of parliamentary reform; and it was highly honourable to them, that although they asserted their rights with ability and energy, they in no case evinced
922Mr. Brand
 observed, that the punishment in the present law was not more severe than that in the act of 1796, and the subsequent acts.Mr. Serjeant Best
 contended, that the object the clause had in view was not the mere words spoken, but the intention with which they were uttered.Mr. Serjeant Best
 said, he had given his vote for the mitigation of the punishment to transportation in the former clause, not from any design to clog the operation of the bill, but from a conviction that it would be equally efficient if the amendment had been carried. He had the same feeling as to the amendment now proposed, and he supported it, not from any idea that the word "Government" would be misunderstood in that House, but because there was a great popular misapprehension as to the import of that word. The looseness of expression which prevailed, was to be attributed to the freedom which the people enjoyed, and which rendered it unnecessary to weigh minutely every word which fell from them. Was it not usual, he would ask, to apply the word "government" to the administration, and might not the most loyal man in the course of a long speech speak of the government in a way which, though his meaning might be perfectly justifiable, would bring him within the letter of the law, and enable some officious magistrate to put him on his defence? As all that could be meant might be comprehended in the words, "constitution as by law established," he should vote for the amendment.Mr. Lyttelton
 wished to know whether it was to be understood that all power of assembling to petition for parliamentary reform was taken away by the present clause? If that had been the intention of the framers of the bill, what more could they have done? Persons who convened meetings to petition for reform were obliged to prove that there was something wrong in the constitution of that House; and how was that to be done, without saying something which might be construed into an intention to bring the constitution into hatred and contempt? He should take, for instance, the septennial act, which was a part of the established law. If any one were to tell the people that this act was an infringement on the rights of the subject, or a gross fraud on the people, would it not be said that his speech came within the clause? Now would they vest in any magistrate the power of going to any meeting, and at once dissolving it? As no one supposed that to petition for parliamentary reform was unconstitutional, to put into the hands of the magistrates the power of preventing meetings to petition was surely unconstitutional. They might judge of the construction which magistrates might put upon parliamentary reform meetings, by the words of a report made in another place. That report talked of the Union Clubs as professing to suppport parliamentary reform, "by which they understand universal suffrage and annual parliaments, projects which involve not any qualified and partial change, but the total subversion of the British constitution." For his own part, he was not friendly to these measures, which he thought would be most injudicious alterations and not reforms, but he did not think them subversive of the constitution. There were indeed very high constitutional authorities against that assertion. However, there might be found in the country, magistrates who thought that much less important changes than these would be subversive of the constitution. If the real intention of the bill was, to prevent parliamentary reform, it should be so avowed.Mr. W. Smith
936 was of opinion that the solicitor-general had not been aware of the consequences which might follow his argument, nor the extent to which it might be carried. Humane and mild in his disposition, as that hon. and learned gentleman was justly acknowledged to be by all who knew him, he was afraid he had on the present occasion been unfortunately misled. He had described the offence as deliberately committed. What crime might not be punished on the same grounds? The law obviously defeated itself by its own severity. Suppose, for example, that the infliction of torture was still a part of the law of this country, the same argument might apply to it in this case. If the crime was to be prevented by the severity of the punishment, why, he would ask, had the hon. and learned gentleman not proposed that the punishment of high treason should be inflicted? He begged the hon. and learned gentleman would really consider the nature of the case before he proposed so dreadful a punishment. Men met together to debate on a given subject and to come to some resolutions on that subject —a justice hearing of the meeting comes forward and orders them to disperse— they are, it may be, disposed peaceably to debate whether they shall disperse or not, and while they are occupied in so doing the hour elapses—they then become subject to this dreadful punishment merely because they have, perhaps, been disposed to doubt the propriety of the justice's conduct and have remained a little longer together. This view of the case struck him very forcibly. A pickpocket might be considered a deli-
936Mr. W. Smith
 said, he was convinced there was much grain in Ireland unfit to be applied to any purpose but distillation or the manufacture of starch. It was to be considered, that if by the stoppage of the legal distilleries, illicit stills were set at work, the consumption would not then be, as it was now, limited to inferior corn.Mr. Windham Quin
 agreed with his hon. friend, that such a punishment could only be justified on the ground of its being applied to rebellion; but he contended that the offence was not one of that description. When the punishment of death was inflicted under the riot act, it was for actual violence and resistance; but here it was proposed to enact the same punishment for the mere non-compliance with the order of a magistrate. A century ago, it had been thought fit to punish resistance to a magistrate with death; but he called upon any hon. gentleman to show any instance in which the law of England had made non-compliance with the order of a magistrate an offence punishable with death. He now moved, that the words "shall suffer death as in case of felony, without benefit of clergy," should be left out, and the words, "shall suffer transportation for the term of 7 years," inserted in their stead.Sir James Mackintosh
 considered the argument of the hon. and learned gentleman as one of a very singular kind. He had insisted on the necessity of punishing persons offending against the law, as if his hon. friend who had opposed the clause, had' maintained that there should be no punishment. To agree to enact that persons persisting to remain together after notice to disperse was given, should be an offence, and yet to say that no punishment should be inflicted on the offenders, was an absurdity of which his hon. friend certainly never was guilty. The question was, whether the punishment of death was the proper punishment for the offence. The hon. and learned gentleman had stated, that there had been no instances of punishment under the similar clauses m the riot act, and the act of 1795, which he believed was the fact; but if there had been no cases of punishment, the inference was, that there had been no occurrence of the offence. The multiplication of unnecessary statures, and the enacting of penalties too severe in proportion to the offence, only tended to weaken and degrade the authority of the law. The order of the magistrate to disperse, it was supposed might be disobeyed. That disobedience would either bring the parties offending within the riot act, or it would not. If it brought them within it, then this clause was useless; for what necessity could there be for loading the statute book with sanguinary enactments? If it did not bring the parties within the riot act, then this bill went farther than that act, by punishing a less offence with equal severity. He would ask the committee whether they were prepared to enact a law more severe than the most sanguinary of the criminal code of this or of any other country, namely, the riot act?—a law which nothing could excuse but the peculiarly difficult circumstances of the period in which it was passed. He must again ask, of what use the clause could be if it enacted nothing more than was already enacted by the riot act? and unless he received a satisfactory answer, he would propose to leave out the words, "shall suffer death without benefit of clergy," in order to substitute the punishment of transportation for not less than seven and not more than fourteen years.Sir James Mackintosh
940 said, he had another amendment to propose in that most important clause which related to public meetings—not meetings held without observance of the conditions required by law, but all meetings whatever—meetings legally holden in pursuance of notice properly given by seven householders. He had no objection to the first part of the clause, that part which authorized magistrates to take into custody any person who proposed an alteration of any thing established by law, otherwise than by the authority of King, Lords, and Commons: neither should he object to the words "or shall wilfully and advisedly make any proposition, or hold any discourse for the purpose of meeting and stirring up the people to hatred or contempt of the person of his majesty, his heirs, or successors." All libellous and slanderous words against the king, or person exercising the sovereign authority, were perfectly inexcusable—they were inexcusable when they referred to acts done in the excercise of the royal authority, because this was transferring the responsibility from the ministers of the Crown to the sovereign. If they referred to the private conduct of the sovereign, they were equally inexcusable—for he held that all conduct purely private, whoever the individual might be, ought to be exempted from animadversion. His objection was to the same power being given in the case of propositions stirring up the people to hatred or contempt of the government or constitution of this realm as by law established. No man in that House would say that there was any intention of using the word government in any sense where it might be confounded with administration—that there was any intention of putting a stop to the canvassing all measures of administration, the proceedings of both Houses of Parliament. But if that were true, what was the use of
940Sir James Mackintosh
 said, that he was quite ashamed to have the names of such contemptible enthusiasts introduced into a solemn legislative enactment.Sir J. Mackintosh
 said, it was now a century since the riot act had passed, and it had proved of the greatest advantage. He had recently had personal experience of its utility. In the course of last week he had felt it to be his duty to read the riot act to an assembly which, though not actually riotous and tumultuous at the time, had riotous objects in view. Had the act been less penal, he was convinced he should not have had sufficient influence to cause the dispersion of that assembly. He was perfectly confident, that it was only by his stating to the people the high penalties to which they would expose themselves if they continued together, that he prevailed on them to separate. If the punishment under the riot act had been transportation, he certainly should not have succeeded. With regard to the difference between the present measure and the riot act, the important difference with regard to the number allowed to continue together had not been noticed. Under the riot act the number was twelve, but by the bill now under consideration it; was fifty. He would vote for the higher: penalty, as he considered it necessary for the peace of the country.Sir J. C. Hippisley
l. thought he should be wanting in his duty, if he did not bear testimony to the full efficiency of these corps. On two occasions, very recently, he had as a magistrate witnessed their exertions. Though scattered over a district of 49 miles, and summoned in the course of the night, they were all assembled for duty by nine o'clock in the morning. He would beg to press it on the noble lord, that the original sum of 4l.Sir J. C. Hippisley
 said, that if the learned lord when he undertook to state the sentiments of the people of Scotland on this subject, had mentioned what the actual number of voters was, it would have been much more satisfactory to the House.Sir M. W. Ridley
 thought it would be highly impolitic to prevent distillation, as the distillers made use of corn which it was impossible to convert to any other purpose.Sir N. Colthurst
bona fide said, that if the noble lord was right, the proposod act was altogether nugatory.bona fideSir S. Romilly
 proposed to leave out this clause altogether. He wished to know how the learned gentleman opposite, who had paid so much attention to this act, could explain the operation of this clause. Dreadful penalties attached to persons not dispersing, or who obstructed the arrest of any persons by the magistrate. Now, if it should turn out that the magistrate had acted wrong, had arrested a person for no sufficient cause, would this error of the magistrate be a good plea for a person who should be tried for obstructing, or for not dispersing; or would the penalties still remain, and thus be made to depend on the bare opinion of a magistrate, and that, possibly, an erroneous one?Sir S. Romilly
944 said, that the clause before the committee pretended to give certain privileges to assemblies convened by seven householders; but under the construction now put upon it, he had not the least difficulty in asserting, that it would be far better that the clause should be expunged, since some officious magistrates might only make it a pretence for denouncing the most peaceable and constitutional meetings, and arresting all those who took part in the discussion. The clause, as at present framed and understood, tended rather to occasion riot and confusion, than to prevent sedition and rebellion. The most important rights might be invaded, if it were not amended. Suppose, for instance, at an assembly legally convened, a gentleman should state, that
944Sir S. Romilly
 contended, that the distilleries often used corn of the best quality. There was no danger at present from illicit stills, which were viewed by the people with jealousy, and were thus more effectually stopped than they could be by armies of excisemen. He most seriously urged the necessity of the suspension of distillation from grain. Tumult had already taken place, on account of the scarcity, and the stoppage of the distilleries was necessary to preserve Ireland not only from misery and famine, but from insurrection.Mr. Knox
l.926 said, that the vote he was about to propose, was for the half year ending in June next. He thought it would be proper that the general discussion should be postponed until after Easter, when the report of the finance committee would be laid on their table, and they would be called to decide on an establishment for the rest of the year. He should propose a vote for the number and charge of the land forces, up to the month of June, in order to enable him to bring in the mutiny bill, which would be co-extensive in duration with the vote. It would be a short mutiny bill, extending from the 24th of march to the 24th of June next. Another object would be to give time to consider of the means by which the remaining part of the expense of the service was to be covered. He should take a vote on those items relative to which no dispute could
l.926Lord Palmerston
 said, that nobody could expect that those who visited the treasury, and were the friends of the hon. secretary to the treasury, would sign petitions for retrenchment and reform. This meeting was said not to combine the respectability, or to express the sentiments of the county, when it voted the petition now before the House. He would ask, did this meeting do nothing else that expressed the sentiments of the county? Were the other acts of the meeting not the acts of the county? Did the address to the Prince Regent not contain the sentiments of the county? Did the vote of thanks to the marquess of Camden not express their sentiments? Were not these two acts done by the same meeting with whom this petition originated, and at the same time? How, then, could they be said to express the feelings and sentiments of the county, while this petition did not?Mr. Ponsonby
976975 while he admitted that the right hon. baronet had brought this important subject under the consideration of parliament very fairly, clearly, and temperately, complained that he had not fully stated the grounds on which his motion with respect to it had, on a former occasion, been opposed. If he recollected rightly, the reason why his Majesty's ministers had formerly opposed the right hon. baronet's motion was, that no grounds had been laid for an inquiry into the English court of chancery, although they admitted that ample grounds had been laid for an inquiry into the Irish court of chancery, to which latter inquiry they stated, that they had no objection. Although he admitted to the right hon. baronet, that such inquiries as those which had been instituted on the right hon. baronet's suggestion, frequently brought out information that might prove useful, yet it certainly was the reverse of economy to institute such inquiries for the mere purpose of fishing, in the expectation that some information or other might possibly be the result of their labours. They were attended with considerable expense to the public. The inquiry already (he did not mean to say that an equivalent benefit might not be derived from it) had cost a considerable sum. Propositions, therefore, of that na-
976975Lord Castlereagh,
 said, it was impossible to name a certain day on such a complicated subject; but it was open to the right hon. baronet to apply to the House again, if he thought the interval which might take place too long.Lord Castlereagh
983982981 rose to ask for leave to bring in a bill to amend an act of the 54th of the king, for enabling the lord lieutenant of Ireland to appoint superintending magistrates and constables in those districts of Ireland which might unhappily become the scene of disturbance. The object of that bill was to supply a deficiency severely felt in Ireland in the civil power, and to introduce something like an effective police, instead of having recourse on every occasion to the cumbrous, though powerful instrument, of a standing army. The measure might probably, at first, seem liable to some objections, if applicable to this country, but the House were to balance between expedients: and if it were found less expensive and more effective than a large military force, he trusted the House would not prevent its being carried into operation. In introducing this measure to the House, he should not enter into a detail of the expense that would be saved by it. The employment of the soldiery, the charge of erecting barracks, and a great variety of other items, formed, however, a considerable aggregate of expense, under the existing system. The best disciplined soldiers, it should also be observed, if obliged to disperse themselves over the country, in small parties, as they were now compelled to do, in search of offenders, would very soon become lax and careless in the performance of their duty. He would leave entirely out of the question, the idea of men who had been employed in putting down the greatest military despotism that ever existed—who perhaps wore on their breasts the proud reward of their honourable services—being; now placed in the humiliating situation of seizing private stills, and apprehending trifling offenders. In the year 1814, when he brought forward the measure which he; now wished to amend, he proposed that the lord lieutenant in council should have the power of placing, in disturbed districts magistrates specially appointed, and constables to assist them in preserving the peace. This measure met with the almost unanimous approbation of the House and it was particularly approved of by the right hon. baronet opposite (sir J. Newport), whom, although he had often differed from the Irish government in opinion, he had ever found desirous, when measures were proposed for the benefit of that country, of which he was a native, and to which he did honour, to give them
983982981Mr. Peel
977 contended, that the noble lord's memory had failed him, as to the nature of the opposition made by ministers to his right hon. friend's motion, which had been nevertheless carried for the appointment of the commissions, the reports from which were now on the table. His majesty's ministers had opposed every part of the proposition; and it had been carried by one vote, in consequence of an hon. and learned gentleman, no longer a member of that House (Mr. Stephen) having declared, that if his right hon. friend could show and abuse in the office to which, as a master of chancery, he belonged, he would support the motion, and he had very honourably done so on such an abuse having been pointed out to him. With respect to the expense of such commissions, that very much depended on the facilities afforded them, or withheld, by government and persons in authority. As to the objection made by the noble lord
977Mr. Ponsonby
l.978 contended for the propriety and advantage of committing the investigation in the court of chancery to the lord chancellor only, and in support of this opinion, he instanced the case of the commission appointed, in lord Hardwicke's time, for a purpose similar to that contemplated by the first motion of the right hon. baronet, when the report was made to the king in chancery, and in less than three years every abuse notified in it was corrected. There never had been so complete a clearance of the avenues of a court of justice. He had no doubt that, on the face of the report, there might be some instances of increase of fees and irregularity of practice; but in all the really important affairs of the court he was persuaded there was little ground for complaint. For the last seventy years there had not been one increase of fees, nor one abuse in the master's office; none in the register's office; in the six clerks office a few, but those small; in the sworn clerks office none since 1740; no increase in the
l.978Mr. Leslie Foster
 said, that the House would not only see the importance of the rule that had been laid down, but the importance of diffusing a knowledge of it. Petitions could only be received as the petitions of those whose names they bore. When there was only one signature, as in the present case, the House remained entirely in the dark as to the sentiments of the meeting from which the application was said to proceed.The Speaker
 said, there were only two modes in which petitions could be viewed as coming before the House. They must either come from individuals, assemblies of individuals, or corporate bodies. If they came from corporate bodies, and were signed in the name of the corporation, and sealed with its seal, they were considered as the prayer of the corporation. If they came from individuals, or meetings of individuals, they were to be considered only as the petitions of the persons whose signatures they bore. They could not, when signed by one in the name of the rest, be considered as the prayer of the whole.The Speaker
 did not perceive any necessity for the appointment of a new committee, as the former reports were as full as time and circumstances could permit. It was more advisable to wait for all the reports of the existing commissions, before the House proceeded to any ulterior measures, as they would thereby have the whole case before them in a connected shape.Mr. Webber
 said, that had it not been thought sufficient that the high sheriff should sign the petition in the name of the meeting, there would have been no difficulty in obtaining numerous and respectable signatures. The hon. baronet had wished even to take away from the petition the advantage of its one signature, by saying that the high sheriff had signed it contrary to his own sentiments. He did not know intimately the sentiments of the sheriff; but he never heard that they were opposed to the petition, and could attest that he seemed perfectly willing to sign it in the name of the meeting.Mr. Calcraft
 was sensible, after what had been said, that the forms of the House precluded the petition from being received as any thing else than the petition of the high sheriff who signed it; but he hoped that, as it was substantially the petition of the meeting, though signed in their names, it would have all the weight which such an origin could give it. The hon. baronet had allowed that it expressed the sentiments of the meeting. That meeting was most respectable—it was numerously attended—it was called with due notice—the requisition was most respectably signed. In consequence of the address to be voted to the Prince Regent, which was a part of the business of the day, the hon. baronet had it in his power to have assembled a greater number of his friends to oppose the petition. The hon. baronet might have exerted all his influence. He was well supported in his opposition by a young man, who displayed great abilities on the occasion, and he might have had the assistance of some demagogues.Mr. Calcraft
 said, the petition undoubtedly spoke the sense of the meeting at Maidstone, but from what he knew of Kent, it did not speak the sense of the county at large.Mr. Lushington
971 said, that the object of sir E. Knatchbull was evidently to do as much injury as possible to the petition. That hon. baronet had, however, said that the sheriff, in his private capacity, was hostile to the sentiments of the petition: if this were true, it was clear that the
971Sir C. Monck
970 said, that he had not
970Sir E. Knatchbull
969 said, that the petition was presented as that of the county of Kent, and as expressive of the sentiments
969Sir E. Knatchbull
974§973***972 on rising to make his motion respecting the fees in courts of justice, said, that it was now three 3'ears since he had first submitted to the House the necessity of that species of inquiry into courts of justice, which was warranted by the practice of parliament in its earliest and best times, and which was peculiarly necessary to protect the public against the increase of fees, and to secure the due administration of justice. On that occasion he had not been supported by his majesty's ministers. Three cabinet ministers present at that time divided against him. His motion was, however, sanctioned by the House by a majority of one vote. He had been accused at that time by one of the ministers as having not made out any ground for his motion; by another as a visionary and a dreamer, for no abuses, he was told, did exist. The vote of the House for commissions to inquire into this subject was on June 20, 1814, and it was not till the 9th of February following that either of the commissions was appointed. The House had not been fairly
974§973***972Sir John Newport,
l.,979 shortly replied, that he would forbear to press his motion, if the noble lord would name a certain time for the settlement of the business. However, he thought it unfair to refer to the lord chancellor the revision of office, in the
l.,979Sir J. Newport
 knew not how to reply to the compliments which the right hon. gentleman had paid him. He had but one claim to his good opinion—that of acting conscientiously, and that claim, he hoped, he should never forfeit. He approved highly of the bill now proposed: it was perfectly constitutional. He had never, for a moment, doubted, that the best boon the House could bestow on Ireland, was a police, established on an efficient footing, instead of resorting to that military force, which was too much employed in that country, and which had outraged the feelings of its population to such a degree, as would render it a matter of great difficulty to return to the spot from which they had set out. This principle, if pursued further, would place Ireland in a state of military tutelage—than which no situation could be more revolting to the feelings of humanity.Sir J. Newport
 was of opinion that the petition spoke the sense of the county; for it was known that the meeting had been convened after a sufficient notice, and that the petition had been agreed to by a great majority. He could not, therefore, imagine that the opinion of the county could be collected in a fairer way. A case similar to the present had occurred at the beginning of the session. A petition had been presented from the county of Cornwall, signed by the sheriff, and afterwards another signed by a number of the freeholders. He was glad this conversation had taken place, that the rule of the House with regard to petitions might be known.Sir W. Geary
 presented a petition from the freeholders and inhabitants of the county of Kent, praying for Reform.Sir W. Geary
 said, that the manner in which the petition was signed, arose from a misconception that it would be taken as the petition of the county if signed by the sheriff in county court: it would otherwise have been most numerously signed.Sir W. Geary
984 said, he had a Petition to present from the town of Liverpool, for he had no difficulty in terming it so, though the meeting was not regularly called. Though a requisition, most respectably signed, had been addressed to the mayor, he had unjustifiably refused to call the meeting, and had thus endeavoured to prevent that communication of the people to parliament, which it was as much the interest of the House as of the people to keep open. After this refusal of the mayor, the meeting was held in a public square of the town, and the
984Earl Sefton
 said, as to the fears of the mayor of Liverpool respecting disturbances, he did not think the reformers had ever been guilty of so many disorders as those opposed to them. He was yesterday at a meeting in the county of Hampshire, held at Winchester, and of all the meetings at which he had been present, he had never witnessed such disorder as there prevailed. The meeting was held near the Cathedral, and the parsons had mustered with all their forces, and were the promoters of the outrageous proceedings to which the old Covent-garden meetings, with marrow bones and cleavers, were not to be compared. A meeting had been called of the whole inhabitants of the county to express their sentiments on the late atrocious attack on the Prince Regent, but when he and some others had attended to express their opinions as loyal subjects, they were told the meeting was confined to freeholders. No one was allowed to express his sentiments, and the meeting was broken up with such precipitation, that no arrangement was made for presenting the address, nor were the thanks moved to the sheriff, or the mover and seconder, according to custom. When he heard meetings for reform called disorderly and tumultuous, which in no case they had been, he could not help stating, that this was the most turbulent and riotous that ever he attended, and that the parsons were the ringleaders in the confusion.Lord Cochrane
 said, that as to the facts mentioned by the noble lord, he could correct him. Thanks had been moved to the sheriff, and arrangements had been made for presenting the address. The meeting was the most numerous he had ever seen in the county of Southampton, and the sheriff had declared that four or five hands to one had been held up for the address. All who were present were permitted to vote. As to the noise which prevailed, it was perfectly impartial, as no one was heard on the one side or the other.Lord Fitzharris
 said, that he had heard nothing of the votes which the last speaker had mentioned, though he was within a yard of the sheriff—such was the noise which prevailed.Lord Cochrane
988 said, that in the contest alluded to, nothing was omitted on his part, and nothing, he believed, on the part of the hon. and learned gentleman, to repress every tendency to outrage and riot; and during the greater part of it, they were successful. He apprehended his hon. friend (Mr. Benson) was confounding the election which took place last year for Liverpool, and that which occurred in 1812. During the former, there was one continued scene of tumult and outrage for the first three or four days. With respect to the petition, he should be sorry to object to its being laid on the table. He could never wish to obstruct the progress of any petition from that town, which he had the honour to represent. The present one, however, was not from the town, but from the inhabitants, and he was glad it was so designated, or it might have been liable to technical difficulties. He had received an account of the way in which the
988Mr. Canning
 said, that with regard to his not stating what passed between himself and the Evans's, the right hon. gentleman should recollect, that it was not he who urged whether they were pleased or displeased, but the right hon. gentleman himself. As to the name of foul ward, given to the place where young Evans was confined, that was the term by which the governor of the prison designated it. The place was clean, he allowed, but the grounds upon which he had brought forward the question were public, and connected with the general management of the prisons of this country. He still contended, therefore, that to confine persons who were merely imprisoned upon a charge of high treason with common felons, was improper.Mr. Bennet
 bore testimony to the fact, that the younger Evans had frequently declared he had no complaint to offer, and that, as he could not be in the state room with his father, the place he now occupied was the most agreeable to him.The Attorney General
 said, that what had been stated respecting the treatment of those persons might be very true, but there was one thing that struck him very forcibly in this case, namely, that they were in close custody, which was the greatest punishment the law could inflict on any person, for any length of time. One of them, indeed, was confined in a place where there were six thieves, who, certainly, were not very respectable company; but, such was the frame of the human mind, it would be glad to have any company, and to be associated with almost any persons rather than be left to pine in solitude and despair.Sir F. Burdett
991§ did not suppose that the hon. mover wished to make any false statements, but what he understood him to
991§Mr. Canning
 having moved the order of the day for resuming the adjourned debate on the Petitions presented for a Reform of Parliament,Sir F. Burdett
 said, that such a petition was a nonenity, and of course could not be received. The motion therefore was negatived. The Speaker said the next question was, whether the two petitions having no signatures on the same paper could be received? They were also refused. The next question was whether the twenty-eight petitions expressed in the same words as the petition from Quick should be received?Lord Castlereagh
993 considered that this question deserved the most serious attention. By the law of the land, the subject had a right to petition the King and both Houses of Parliament. The bill of rights had secured this inestimable privilege to him, and it had been always regarded as one of the greatest bulwarks of our liberties. In the petitions then before the House, various grievances were complained of; but, particularly, the want of a proper representation of the people. On a former night, the House had objected to several petitions on the same subject, on account of certain expressions that were introduced into them. The noble lord opposite had objected, that the petitioners said, the present House of Commons did not represent the country. This was so comprehensive an objection, that the House had better say at once, it would not receive any petition for a reform of parliament. In what way could the petitioners ask for relief, if they were to be precluded from stating what was so notoriously true? On former occasions, strong suspicions only were entertained, that seats in that House were bought and sold; but never till of late had this shocking and disgraceful practice been brought to light, and the fact established beyond the power of contradiction. "You, Sir," said sir F, Burdett, addressing himself to the Speaker, "have expressed your strongest disapprobation of this vile traffic, and shall the people, then, be told, that they must not complain of such things r There are no words, Sir, that the people can employ on this subject, which your own indignation has not anticipated. If our ancestors, as you well observed, would have started with horror on hearing of these practices, why may not the people now complain that the House of Commons does not contain a fair and legitimate representation of the country? Other gentlemen had objected that the petitioners introduced
993Sir F. Burdett
fac simile994bona fide said, that the objection to the petitions was, that the petitions went out of their way and brought into their petitions irrelevant matter, for the express purpose of casting censure and insults upon the House. He read, as an instance, that part of one of the petitions which called the debates in the House "tedious, protracted, and disgusting." Matter more clearly objectionable could not be conceived. What the hon. baronet required as to the House prescribing any form of language, or stating in some rule what language would be objectionable, it was impossible that it could be done. To suppose that the House should formally state every possible variety of words, phrases, or sentiments which would be objected to, was absurd. The House must judge on each case as it came before it, whether the petition contained a fac simile994bona fideMr. Wynn
995 said, that after all the distresses and privations which the people had so patiently endured, they had received that return which they did not expect, namely, a suspension of the constitution. The House had been led to adopt certain measures which the state of the country did not justify; and which, he firmly believed, were only intended to prevent persons from meeting to state their grievances. No instance whatever had occurred of any disturbance at any of those meetings; but ministers had a particular object in alarming the timid. They now called upon the landed gentlemen to rally round them; but what was the situation in which those gentlemen stood? Why, it was neither more nor less than this—that they were about to be plundered of their property by the fluctuating state of the currency. The hon. member below had said, that the war of
995Lord Cochrane
 was surprised to hear the noble lord say, that ministers had found means to prevent public meetings, for, unless the names of the members for Westminster had been forged, there was to be a meeting to-morrow, not to desire the people to rally round ministers, but to address the Prince Regent for their removal. The noble lord had said, there had been no riot or disturbance at any of the public meetings; but surely he must have been out of the country for the last six months, or he could not have been so ignorant of what had taken place. The language of these petitions was a direct insult to the House; and, therefore, he should vote for their rejection.The Attorney-General
 said, he rose for the purpose of moving for a paper, respecting which he had given a notice on a preceding evening. It was for a return of the number and names of persons who were now imprisoned in the House of Correction, Cold Bath-fields, under the 39th and 40th of the king. Since the last discussion he had visited the Cold Bath-fields prison, and he there found that every thing was precisely as he had stated. The elder Evans was confined with another person who bore the character which he had described, and the younger Evans was confined in the foul ward of the hospital.Mr. Bennet
 said, the House ought not to refuse to pay attention to the petitioners, merely because they alleged that the House did not represent the country. Great offence had been taken atone of the expressions in these petitions; namely, where the petitioners spoke of "the disgusting debates in that House." He would now ask, upon a day like this, when it was known that upwards of 500 petitions were to be considered, what was the situation of the House? Most of the gentlemen had retired to take their dinners very comfortably, and the petitions of the people of England were treated with contempt.Sir Gilbert Heathcote
 put it to those who complained of the thinness of the House, whether the House had not something to complain of as to the conduct of the petitioners? There was no right which he held so sacred as the right of petition, and the conduct of these petitioners had a direct tendency to bring the right of petition into contempt. The petitioners well knew that their petitions must be rejected, and the House on behalf of the people of England, was called upon to reprobate their conduct.Mr. Abercombie
997 rose to move, that these petitions should be rejected, and to express his surprise that the hon. baronet should have presented such petitions to the House, after the repeated decisions that printed petitions could not be received. There was no rule more strongly established, than that which ordered that no printed petitions should be received by the House. That rule was begun to beaded on in 1656; it was again recognised in 1793, and afterwards so late as the year 1813, in the case of a printed petition from Nottingham, on which occasion the hon.
997Mr. Wynn
sic jubeosic volo,oderint dum metuant,100210011000999998 felt aware, that he should be only wasting time in discussing the question at present, seeing the treasury benches and those behind them, so full, and those on his own side of the House so empty. But having already delayed the question so long, he thought he
sic jubeosic volo,oderint dum metuant,100210011000999998Sir Francis Burdett
1003 contended, that if the House believed the hon. baronet really wished the petitions to be received, they must perceive that he had not argued the cause in a way to ensure their reception. The hon. baronet had presented them in the face of a rule, the existence of which was publicly known; and he had said nothing to show that the rule did not form a part of the practice of parliament. It was, indeed, a little extraordinary that the hon. baronet should cavil at the expressions of the rule in question, as he himself was one of the tellers on the division that took place shortly after the question came before parliament, on the Nottingham petition. He would contend, that these were private petitions in the parliamentary acceptance of the word private, and within the obvious construction of the rule; and the hon. baronet could not show a single usage to the contrary. He had, indeed, shown the usage of the other House; but that was in a case which was expressly prohibited from being drawn into a precedent, and therefore told against the hon. baronet. Anxious as he was to receive the petitions in question, and to preserve in all its privileges the right of petitioning, yet he thought the systematic trade of framing petitions, and calling meetings for the purpose of breaking the peace of the country, ought by every means to be checked in its growth. God forbid that he should impute to those who signed these 468 petitions, any settled design against the government of the country; they were most of them, he believed, deluded individuals; but he knew that designing men
1003Lord Castlereagh
 intimated to the House that the next question for its consideration was, that the 488 printed petitions be now read.The Speaker
992 said, with the leave of the House, he begged to state, that since the former evening of debate, he had caused the several petitions to be assorted and classed according to their respective form and contents. The total number of the petitions was 527. Of these there was one to which no name at all was subscribed—two had no names signed on the papers on which they were severally written—twenty-eight contained the same allegations and prayer as the petition from Quick, which the House rejected on the 29th of January—468 were printed petitions—of the remaining twenty-eight there were eleven containing the same allegations and prayer as the petition from Halifax, which the House rejected on the 31st of January; and four containing the same allegations and prayer as the petition from Hollingwood, which the House rejected on the 13th of February. The remaining thirteen were in various other forms. With the permission of the House he would therefore suggest that the first question before them was, whether that
992The Speaker
1004 opposed the motion. The House could not be surprised at there being such a similarity in the form and expressions of these petitions when they were aware that they had all proceeded from the same hand and mind. The helpless old gentleman, whom his friends in Westminster called the polar star of reform, had lately became a wandering star for the purpose of enlightening the manufacturing districts in the north of England and in Scotland, in which districts he had promoted meetings, at which he presided, and
1004Mr. Boswell
996 said, that the absent members, as well as those then present, knew the nature of the objections to the petitions—objections on which every member had already made up his mind. It was therefore no insult to the people. The
996Mr. Bathurst
990 said, the motion of the hon. member referred to two objects, and with respect to the first, which related to the number of criminal lunatics confined, he could have no objection. He would find, however, that they all stood peculiarly situated, and did not come under; the statute, which enabled and authorized the government to provide them with proper places. With respect to the allegations made by the hon. member concerning the two Evans's, he wished his candour had allowed him to go a little further, and state what passed between him and those individuals. He asked the hon. member whether, when he saw them, they did not say they had no complaints to make upon the subjects which he had mentioned in that House? For how stood the case? When the elder Evans was committed, the prison was so full that there was no accommodation for him on the first night, except by sleeping with a person who, he understood, was a felon. The next day the keeper himself stated that he thought it unfit he should be so associated; but Mr. Evans said the man was a very decent and respectable individual, that he liked his Company and conversation, and wished that he might be permitted to remain with him. The same facts were declared to the hon. member by Evans, and why did he not, in candour, state it to the House? Evans now occupied what were called the state rooms, and he appealed to the hon. gentleman whether they were not comfortable and commodious? With regard to the younger Evans, it was true he was confined in what the hon. member chose to call the foul ward of the hospital; but he would again ask the hon. member, whether he ever saw a room more clean, or more proper for a person in that condition? Because, however, it formed part of
990Mr. Bathurst
 observed, that if, as the right hon. gentleman supposed, his hon. friend behind him had confounded two different transactions, how did it happen that he had made him (Mr. B.) head the mobs, when he must have known that he was not at Liverpool in May last?Mr. Brougham
—Now the explanation of the hon. member is intelligible. If he merely means to say, that the persons whom I had the honour of addressing on that occasion, the persons who were kind enough to take an active part in the promotion of what they considered my interest, were remarkably numerous, I can have nothing to object to him.Mr. Brougham
 called upon the hon. member for Stafford to mention some of those outrages which he said had been committed by the people of Liverpool. If the hon. member had any facts to bring forward, he hoped he would do so; but if the thing was to rest upon the mere vague and gratuitous assertion of that hon. member, he trusted it would have no weight with any individual in the opinion he might form with regard to this petition.Mr. Brougham
 said, he should not tell the hon. member whether he was or was not satisfied with his explanation, but ho would call upon the right hon. member for Liverpool to give a direct negative to the assertion of the hon. gentleman opposite. He was sure the right hon. gentleman would do so, because he was incapable of saying one thing to him at Liverpool, and another in that House. For the first time in his life, a charge had now been brought against him for heading a mob notoriously disorderly, outrageous, and mischievous.Mr. Brougham
987 said, he was aware the hon. member had not imputed mischievous designs to himself, but merely that the mob was mischievous. There were two ways, however, of imputing motives in that House; one, in a parliamentary manner, which could be met by a call to order; the other, where though nothing was explicitly charged, yet every one could understand what was meant to be implied. He should content himself with calling upon the right hon. gentleman op-
987Mr. Brougham
 said, he was perfectly ready to confirm all that had fallen from the hon. and learned member. During the twenty years in which he had been connected with the borough of Liverpool, and in which period he had witnessed many contested elections, he never recollected one in which there had been less Outrage than in that alluded to. He never witnessed a more general effort on the part of all the candidates to prevent any thing like riot and confusion, and he perfectly recollected the particular expression mentioned by the hon. and learned member.General Gascoyne
 rose, to express his disapprobation of the manner in which, not only at Liverpool, but everyplace throughout the country, attempts were made to prejudge and stifle the voice of the people. They first refused to let them meet legally, and then when they assembled in any other way, the military were immediately called out, as if some insurrection were apprehended. Against such conduct, he should always think it his duty to protest.Mr. Curwen
 hoped no petition to that House not couched in respectful language, would be received. If, as some of these petitioners alleged, the House was not a representation of the people, why did those who entertained such an opinion approach it for the redress of grievances?Mr. Jones
 thought the less offensive mode would be, not to reject the petitions, but to vote that they could not be received on account of their irregularity.Mr. J. Martin
 said, that although he must disapprove of the language of the petitions, yet on the ground taken by Mr. Babington, he would vote against their rejection.Mr. John Smith
 wished to give every latitude to the admission of petitions, but he could net help thinking that the hon. baronet, whatever his intentions might be, was actually following that course which was most calculated to defeat the right of petitioning. When the petitions of the people bore marks of conveying their own sentiments, the House ought to receive with indulgence any expressions they might contain; but the case was very different when they came in terms which appeared to have been dictated. It appeared, that in 1813, the House had come to a decision founded on former precedents, against receiving printed petitions, and he saw no reason for now reversing that decision.Mr. Smyth
 said, he held in his hand the names of those who had signed the requisition, than which none more respectable could be found in that town; and as to opulence, which had some weight in that House, there were many of the most wealthy persons in Liverpool. He should forbear saying any thing more after the speech of the noble earl, but as he had been requested to support that petition, he cheerfully bore testimony to the correctness of that statement.Mr. Birch
 wished to know, when those numerous outrages in Liverpool, to which the hon. member alluded, had taken place? For his own part he had never heard of them.Mr. Birch
 said, he had heard no sufficient reason assigned for not receiving these petitions. The order which had been read against receiving private petitions printed and circulated, was perfectly intelligible. There were many instances in the courts below of objections to the circulation of printed applications, founded, he supposed, upon the same ground as the order of 1656. They were objected to on the same principle as tampering with a jury would be considered objectionable. If there were really fears of the existence of a secret fire, concealment was not the best way of extinguishing it. If any machinations were going on against the state the best way was to give every encouragement to petitioning, in order that the House might not remain in ignorance of the opinions and feelings of the country at such a crisis; but he was far from placing any confidence in the assertions in the reports which had been presented to parliament, which he considered as gross libels on the people. He saw no just ground either on precedent or reason, for objecting to printed petitions, and should therefore support the motion.Mr. Peter Moore
 repeated, that there were never greater mobs in Liverpool, than when the hon. and learned gentleman headed them. If the hon. and learned gentleman had not urged him for proofs, he should never have noticed the circumstance.Mr. Benson
985 was anxious to clear the mayor of Liverpool from the aspersions cast upon him. That respectable magistrate had refused to sanction the meeting on account of the many riots which had taken place under the persons whom he expected to take the lead at that meeting. As to the regularity of the meeting, he thought the presence of the regiment of infantry and the troop of cavalry was enough to account for that circumstance. As to the persons who signed the requisi-
985Mr. Benson
 rose to order. He did not impute to the honourable and learned member any mischievous intentions.Mr. Benson
 said, he spoke from personal knowledge of the many tumultuous riots which had originated on the very spot where the meeting was held for the purpose of agreeing to the present petition. He was surprised the hon. and learned gentleman's memory was so short as to require specific instances, for he believed there never were greater or more notorious outrages committed in Liverpool than by the very mischievous mobs which the hon. and learned gentleman himself had headed. He did not mean to impute any mischievous designs to the hon. and learned member. He only said that the mobs were most mischievously inclined. He had been called upon by the hon. and learned gentleman to state instances, and he hoped he was satisfied with his explanation.Mr. Benson
 agreed that the language of the petitions was so objectionable, that they ought not to be received; but he thought the House should have so much tenderness towards the petitioners, as not to pass a direct vote of rejection.Mr. Babington
 considered the rule of 1656 applicable, inasmuch as every petition not proceeding from a recognized public body must be considered private.Mr. W. Quin
 observed, that when the House saw all the petitions, not only couched in the same words, but (with scarcely any exception) printed b}' the same printer, it afforded strong presumptive evidence that such petitions did not speak the sense of the people from whom they professed to proceed. He should therefore oppose their reception.Sir E. Brydges
 contended, that the rule of 1656 applied solely to private petitions, and therefore could not bear upon the present question. He decidedly differed from the petitioners in their view of the remedy for the public grievances, but still be considered they were right in stating openly and with candour their notions of the corrective. With regard to printed1 petitions, he would put this plain question to the House. If they were anxious honestly to know the opinion of the great body of the people on an important subject, what more desirable course could they adopt than to have the petition submitted to the people put in that form which gave the best security of the question being fully understood? To put them in a printed form, was, in his opinion, best calculated to produce that effect. He was convinced the petitions ought to be received.Sir W. Geary
10521051105010491048104710461045 said, when he recollected the powerful and temperate speech addressed to the House by the hon. and learned gentleman last year on a subject intimately connected with the present, he came to the House that evening with a conviction on his mind, that the
10521051105010491048104710461045The Hon. Frederick Robinson
s.1055†10541053 said, that if the right hon. gentleman opposite was surprised at the conclusion of the able and eloquent speech of his hon. and learned friend, he could also assure him, that he was in no small degree surprised and astonished at the manner in which he had terminated the able speech he had just delivered.—The House could not certainly go along with the right hon. gentleman in his conclusion, who, after admitting the prevailing distress and want of trade that had become so general of late, could yet from the mere casual circumstance of an alteration in his hon. and learned friend's temper, overlook great leading points of admitted radical necessity, and pass to the
s.1055†10541053Mr. Baring
1057 contended, that the hon. and learned mover of the resolutions had made out no case on which the House could possibly accede to his resolutions. He admitted that there existed a great deal of distress in the country, but these resolutions applied no remedy to them. The whole of the first part of the hon. and learned gentleman's argument went to prove that we ought to have established constitutional governments on the continent in order that the benefits of commerce should be extended to us. This argument was so absurd in its nature, that he would not then take up the time of the House in offering any answer. The resolutions ought not to be adopted until some evidence had been adduced to show that the statements were true: assertions were made, but nothing was proved; and though many arguments had been employed to show that all the distresses were imputable to ministers, the arguments were as destitute of foundation as the assertions. The present was the first occasion within his memory when not a single account had been required from the public offices on which a motion of such importance was to be grounded. The account of tonnage produced by the hon. and learned gentleman proved nothing unless he could also show in what way that tonnage was, employed, with what goods the ships were laden, or how many of them were in ballast. It was an erroneous assertion to say that the commerce of this country was altogether declined. The iron trade, on which so much had been said was not in that decayed state which was said, for the exports of the last year had considerably exceeded that of the two preceding years. Another objection of the hon. and learned member was, that we had not taken advantage of circumstances, and secured the trade of South America, but all persons better acquainted with the subject knew that that would be impracticable without running the risk of a war. As to the twenty years monopoly which was talked of, it was offered only by one province (the Carracas). The diminution of the demand for the luxuries of life was principally to be attributed to the temporary emigration of many families to the continent. The remarks, made upon machinery seemed inapplicable to this question. Session after session, during the war, acts were repealed that restricted the use of machinery: and if a different course of policy were now pursued, what would become of the cotton-
1057Mr. Rose
10621061l.l.1060 junr. contended, that the resolutions moved by the hon. and learned gentleman were a direct censure on the conduct of ministers. They contained criminal charges against them which were not borne out by the fact. He therefore could not agree with them; though he admitted that there existed a considerable degree of distress in the country, yet that he did not conceive a sufficient foundation for charging his majesty's government with criminality of which they were not guilty. Another reason why he could not agree with the resolutions was, that they tended to produce throughout the country regret for the past and hopelessness for the future; neither of which feelings had any foundation in fact. It could not be denied that distress existed, but it ought to be admitted that it was considerably less than it had been a short time back, and that great improvements were recently perceptible in almost every branch of manufacture.—We were improving, and we had a prospect of improving still more. It was then unfair to give a check by such desponding views of our present state, as were comprehended in the resolutions, to the hopes which the incipient renovation of our commerce had begun to excite. The causes which ope-
10621061l.l.1060Mr. C. Grant
1064 said, that he felt obliged to the hon. and learned gentleman for fringing forward the discussion; and although he did not feel the necessity to change our whole policy of foreign commerce, he still was induced to recommend his majesty's ministers to revise many branches of it; and in particular those that had been mentioned, of the duties on foreign timber, especially from Norway and the Baltic (imposed to favour the importation of timber from our American colonies, but in reality favourable only to the importation of that article from the United States). Also the high duty on foreign linens, which was the occasion of the transit and profits on them being lost to the country, together with the other articles that might compose an assorted cargo with the linens, Adverting to the statement that had been made by a right hon. gentleman respecting the decreased circulation of the country, and his observations on the bank of England, he remarked that the directors had a delicate and arduous duty to fulfil. There were persons in that House ready to censure any increased issue of bank notes; and, on the other hand, the right hon. gentle-
1064Mr. Thornton
1069l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1068l.l.l.l.l.l.l.10671066 was happy to think that any impression which could have been made by the tone of gloomy despondency which pervaded the hon. and learned gentleman's speech must have been long since removed by the facts which have been stated by gentlemen well informed of the real state of the country; and especially by those which the House had just heard from the hon. member for Glasgow. To the latter part of the hon. and learned gentleman's speech, the introduction of which he very much lamented, he certainly did not feel himself called upon to reply, because there was nothing in it realty applicable to the question before the House. He could not refrain, however, from observing, that the discussion of a nature similar to the present which took place last session, had been conducted in a better manner and spirit. Care had then been taken to abstain from mixing political questions with those of the present kind. On the present occasion it seemed to have been more the aim of the hon. and learned gentleman to wound the government than [to mend the situation of the country. But with respect to what the hon. and learned gentleman had said of the course of policy which his majesty's ministers had pursued at the close of the late war, he should only observe, that every point of that great question bad, after full deliberation, been decided upon by the House.—Having obtained the sanction of parliament, he apprehended that the conduct of ministers could not now be made the subject of inquiry. He was certainly ready to acknowledge that, as fallible men, they might have committed mistakes; but he was willing to leave it to the present generation, and posterity, to judge whether in those great transactions, in the adjustment of which they had to participate, they had not done their best for the interests of the country and of mankind. He, for his part, should never regret that he had been no party in the framing of such treaties as the hon. and learned gentleman thought ought to have been the result of the late peace.—No-
1069l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1068l.l.l.l.l.l.l.10671066Lord Castlereagh
10711070, in looking to the causes of the present distress, could not but come to a very different conclusion from that which had been come to by the noble lord and the hon. and learned gentleman. To him it appeared their observations with respect to the effect that would be produced by an increase in the value of agricultural produce, were completely unfounded. Consequences very different from those which they thought were to be expected, would, he was confident, result from such a change. If what was
10711070Lord Cochrane
10781077†1076sine qua non,10751074our favour.1073l.1072 rose to reply, and spoke as follows:10781077†1076sine qua non,10751074our favour.1073l.1072Mr. Brougham
 in reply to an observation which had fallen from a right hon. gentleman, explained that he had not stated any thing against the use of machinery; on the contrary, he had observed, that the low price of labour had the effect of leading to a competition with machinery,Mr. Brougham
 begged to explain, that in what he had said of the watch trade and unemployed tailors, he meant merely to advert to them as developing some of the general symptoms of the prevailing distress.Mr. Brougham
4. "That the system of foreign policy pursued by his majesty's ministers has not been such as to obtain for the people of this country those commercial advantages, which the influence of Great Britain in foreign courts fairly entitled them to expect."3. "That the continuance of these difficulties is in a great degree owing to the severe pressure of taxation under which the country labours, and which ought, by every practicable means, to be lightened.2. "That those difficulties are materially increased by the policy pursued with respect to our foreign commerce, and that a revision of this system ought forthwith to be undertaken by the House.1. "That the trade and manufactures of the country are reduced to a state of such unexampled difficulty as demands the most serious attention of this House.
4. "That the system of foreign policy pursued by his majesty's ministers has not been such as to obtain for the people of this country those commercial advantages, which the influence of Great Britain in foreign courts fairly entitled them to expect."3. "That the continuance of these difficulties is in a great degree owing to the severe pressure of taxation under which the country labours, and which ought, by every practicable means, to be lightened.2. "That those difficulties are materially increased by the policy pursued with respect to our foreign commerce, and that a revision of this system ought forthwith to be undertaken by the House.1. "That the trade and manufactures of the country are reduced to a state of such unexampled difficulty as demands the most serious attention of this House.104410431042***10411040l.10391038‡10371036l.:l.;d.s.1035l.l.l.l.,l.;l.,l.s.s.s.;s.1034d.s.s.d.,s.1033s.s.1032103110301029legitimacy,1028l.:l.1027102610251024102310221021l.10201019‡101810171016101510141013l.1012l.1011l.d.s.d.s.d.;s.d.s.1010d.s.d.s.d.;s.d.s..s.s.;s.s.s.d.,s.s.;s.1009s.l.,1008‡100710061005 rose and said:4. "That the system of foreign policy pursued by his majesty's ministers has not been such as to obtain for the people of this country those commercial advantages, which the influence of Great Britain in foreign courts fairly entitled them to expect."3. "That the continuance of these difficulties is in a great degree owing to the severe pressure of taxation under which the country labours, and which ought, by every practicable means, to be lightened.2. "That those difficulties are materially increased by the policy pursued with respect to our foreign commerce, and that a revision of this system ought forthwith to be undertaken by the House.1. "That the trade and manufactures of the country are reduced to a state of such unexampled difficulty as demands the most serious attention of this House.
4. "That the system of foreign policy pursued by his majesty's ministers has not been such as to obtain for the people of this country those commercial advantages, which the influence of Great Britain in foreign courts fairly entitled them to expect."3. "That the continuance of these difficulties is in a great degree owing to the severe pressure of taxation under which the country labours, and which ought, by every practicable means, to be lightened.2. "That those difficulties are materially increased by the policy pursued with respect to our foreign commerce, and that a revision of this system ought forthwith to be undertaken by the House.1. "That the trade and manufactures of the country are reduced to a state of such unexampled difficulty as demands the most serious attention of this House.104410431042***10411040l.10391038‡10371036l.:l.;d.s.1035l.l.l.l.,l.;l.,l.s.s.s.;s.1034d.s.s.d.,s.1033s.s.1032103110301029legitimacy,1028l.:l.1027102610251024102310221021l.10201019‡101810171016101510141013l.1012l.1011l.d.s.d.s.d.;s.d.s.1010d.s.d.s.d.;s.d.s..s.s.;s.s.s.d.,s.s.;s.1009s.l.,1008‡100710061005Mr. Brougham
1079 objected to the clause permitting enlistments for life. After some conversation between lord Castlereagh,
1079Mr. Gurney
 said, if the hon. and learned gentleman had moved for a committee to inquire into the state of manufactures and commerce, he should have supported his motion. He thought the state of the country indispensably demanded the appointment of such a committee to investigate the causes of the existing distress, and to endeavour to discover means by which it might be removed. As the hon. and learned gentleman's resolutions had no reference to that object, however unwilling he felt on such a question to pass to the order of the day, he could not vote with him.Mr. Alderman Atkins
1065 did not agree with those who supposed the distress of the country proceeded from a diminished demand for our manufactures. The goods brought to market by the manufacturers were disposed of, but the evil lay in the low state of wages. This, he believed, was an evil experienced over all Europe. An hon. baronet, in a former debate, had represented the situation of this country as worse than any other in Europe; but that he was confident was not the case. In France, in Switzerland, in Austria, Saxony, and every part of Germany, the greatest distress was felt. This state of things, he thought, was occasioned almost solely by the change from war to peace, which sent back to their homes great numbers of men who had been engaged in military pursuits. When the prices of labour became thus reduced, the workman found it necessary to work a greater number of hours to enable him to maintain his family; and this additional work threw a new quantity of labour into the market, and aggravated the distress. An improvement, however, had taken place in all the manufacturing districts; and when that improvement should advance a little farther the situation of the cotton manufacturers would no longer be a subject of complaint. He objected to the resolutions, but he wished to see some other way of disposing
1065Mr. Finlay
1063 adverted to two points in the speech of a right hon. gentleman opposite, to show the fallacious character of his reasoning. The right hon. gentleman had asked, how the late rise in the funds had taken place, and had concluded by attributing it to increased confidence in the government. This was certainly not going so far as a noble person was said to have done in another place, who ascribed the rise in the funds to the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act! The plain fact was, that it had been occasioned by the very prudent measure adopted by the chancel-
1063Mr. Sharp
10591058 expressed his surprise at the line of argument adopted by the right hon. gentleman who, while he admitted that such great distress existed in the country, denied that there was evidence before the House sufficient to support the resolutions. But the fact was, there was a great mass of evidence before
10591058Sir John Newport
 said, that the case had already received the most mature consideration on the part of the admiralty. According to the old system, there were as many pursers as ships; but, as many ships (perhaps 3 or 400) had been broken up, it was deemed expedient to give half-pay to those who were thus discharged, but who once had been on the regular list of pursers. But the half-pay was never extended merely to acting pursers, who were clerks, who, happening to be in ships abroad, had been temporarily appointed to act as pursers, but had never been confirmed. These persons had certainly some claim on the country; but not more than midshipmen who had acted as lieutenants, of whom there were many under the same circumstances.Admiral Hope
 said, there were many in the same situation. The admiralty had done all that was possible for them, appointing double clerks to every ship in commission, in order to employ them.Admiral Hope
1083 said, that though the admiralty was in general sufficiently liberal, yet there was a point in the custom of that board rather deficient in that respect. There was required from every officer in the navy entitled to half pay, an oath that
1083Mr. Lyttleton
l., observed, that it was not to be supposed that the sum of 40,000l.,Admiral Hope
 did not understand the hon. member to have used any such language. He conceived him to have thrown out severe and unjust censure on those who had receded from a particular set of opinions.Mr. Wynn
10941093 said, he had already expressed his assent to the measure now before the
10941093Mr. Wynn
1111 said, that the declaration of the hon. member for Glasgow, that the men implicated in the disturbances at Glasgow were none of them above the lowest order, gave him much satisfaction, as he had understood the lord advocate to intimate that persons above that class were concerned. This had been his opinion when in the committee, and he had been surprised to hear it asserted so often, that the committee had advised the adoption of stronger legislative enactments for the repression of that spirit of disaffection. No such recommendation had ever taken place, but by the unanimous vote of that committee they had avoided any such recommendation, and left the matter open to the discretion of his majesty's executive government.—Enough had been done already by the enactment of three different restrictive laws, one of which he could not imagine ever to be justifiably resorted to except when the constitution in all its branches was in the utmost peril. As to the nature of the conspiracy, he could not speak freely; for it was impossible, with regard to public justice, to do so; but the fair result of all that could be collected from the best authorities was, that many had unfortunately lent themselves to the projects of designing and disaffected men, but that the mass was not disaffected. The moment such a conspiracy was known, it was overthrown, especially under the eye of so vigilant and energetic a government as that of this country. There was neither rank nor talent to render it formidable; neither influence nor wealth to give it permanency and sinew. Why, therefore, government had proceeded to suspend so many parts of the constitution, he could not comprehend.—Some parts of this measure were, and some were not objectionable. A restriction upon such meetings was called for, because, even in the hands of the petty agitator, destitute of influence or wealth, they might be perverted to the worst purposes. No one magistrate, however, should have been intrusted with the powers granted by this bill. This had been the subject of an amendment in the committee, which he had much regretted was negatived. But
1111Mr. Ponsonby
Habeas Corpus.1121physical force11201119odiumodium1118**did:11171116in behalf1115 rose and said:Habeas Corpus.1121physical force11201119odiumodium1118**did:11171116in behalf1115Mr. Canning
 said, he had never stated any opinion unfavourable to the general diffusion of instruction.Mr. Canning
1130 adverting to the impatience expressed by the House to come to the question, expressed his regret at their haste to decide on so important a subject. The passing of this bill was the last stab given to the constitution. If this bill passed into a law, it would erect every magistrate in the country into a petty tyrant. This anticipated conduct of the magistrates, and the cruelties that might result from such tyrannical laws, were not imaginary. He had received a letter from Glasgow, giving an account of two of the persons who were taken up there for high treason. One of them was a student of divinity, who had written him an account of his treatment. This student of divinity was very different from the parsons to whose conduct he alluded on a former evening; for no less than twenty of his fellow students, signed a declaration expressive of their high sense of his character, and good principles. His name was M'Arthur. He stated, that he was taken up on the 22d of February, that he was apprehended by an officer upon a warrant that had not the insertion of his christian name, that he was carried before the sheriff; and that, though nothing was substantiated against him, he was sent to prison, where he was put in a dreary cell, with a bed in it so damp, that he could not with safety sleep in it.
1130Lord Cochrane
, as he had been alluded to by the hon, member, was ready to bear testimony to the good state of the gaol; but if the bed was damp and wet, the prisoner might suffer nevertheless. The account given by the noble lord accorded with one that he (Mr. B.) had received. The character given of this person ought to have exempted him from such treatment, or even from suspicion.Mr. Bennet
1132 said, that it had been already distinctly declared, that Ireland was in such a tranquil state as not to require any such unusual restraint; and also that it was quite unnecessary to extend to Ireland any enactment respecting the safety of the king's person. That as to Orange Societies, he very much regretted their existence, and felt persuaded
1132Lord Castlereagh
10961095ex parte felt himself called upon to say a few words on the present occasion, and he confessed it was with some surprise he heard his hon. friend accused of introducing irrelevant matter. He thought his hon. friend had kept as close as any man possibly could do to the question before the House, and that he had argued the question on the fairest grounds. He was firmly persuaded there had been no case made out to justify the extraordinary provisions which the legislature were adopting, and he, for one, could not consent to surrender the liberties of his country, even to his nearest and dearest friend, on such loose assertions as the report of the secret committee contained, a report, which was evidently composed of 10961095ex parteLord William Russell
11101109110811071106110511041103 reminded the House that the principles and designs of the Spenceans, however it might now be attempted to represent them as too insignificant to call forth any feeling other than contempt, had appeared of sufficient importance in the year 1801 to demand the vigilant attention of parliament. These societies had been put down by the bills formerly brought in, to check practices similar to those which had lately prevailed; they had lain dormant for some years, and had at length recently revived, and been called into active operation. Under these circumstances, he could not but think the measures which had proved effectual to repress them before, ought again to be resorted to now. Those gentlemen deceived themselves who believed the doctrines of the Spenceans to be wholly speculative. He was satisfied that they entertained the hope of reducing their absurd theory to practice, and that they aimed at nothing less than the confiscation of the property of the country. They were the projectors of the late attempts at insurrection, with which it was seen they had ventured to connect the symbols of the French Revolution. These persons carried their ideas on the propriety of changing the order of things further than ever Paine had done; for he had but contended, that the people were entitled to political rights which were withheld from them; he had never gone so far as to assert those natural rights which were claimed by the Spenceans, and which involved a general division of properly. The observations which had fallen from the hon. member for Norwich, he did not consider applicable to the bill now under the consideration of the House. It was natural
11101109110811071106110511041103Mr. Bathurst
 was happy to hear the disavowal of the right hon. gentleman.Mr. Brougham
112911281127***11261125112411231122 rose to avail himself of the last opportunity the forms of the House would afford him of expressing his decided disapprobation of the bill under consideration; and he should have contented himself with merely protesting against the measure, had not some observations which had fallen from the last speaker rendered it necessary for him to say a few words, with the view of setting the House right as to some of the arguments used by the right hon. gentleman. The right hon. gentleman had said, that all who had spoken in opposition to the bill, with three exceptions, concurred in the necessity of some regulations for public meetings. All, however, that he and his lion, friends had admitted was, that the provision for seven householders signing a requisition for any meeting might be very properly enacted, in order to prevent persons not resident in the place from convening meetings for mischievous purposes. Such was the restriction, if such the right hon. gentleman wished to call it, to which he was disposed to agree. But, had that precautionary measure any thing in common with a regulation which gave the power of preventing a meeting to one magistrate, though, as it had been well observed by his hon. friend, the member for
112911281127***11261125112411231122Mr. Brougham
1113 thought it not too much to ask, on behalf of the people of England, the same security in the exercise of their highest constitutional right, that belonged to the humblest pauper in the land. No one magistrate could send a miserable pauper from one parish to another, or license an ale-house; it required the concurrence of two magistrates for these purposes; and certainly if they were to clog public meetings with the attendance of magistrates, they ought at least to take as strong precautions against an abuse of power, as had been taken in the cases to which he had alluded. He objected to the whole of the bill as it at present stood, with the exception of those parts of it which related to the taking of secret oaths, to persons calling large meetings of the people together without notice, and to adjourned meetings. He said boldly and broadly, that no case was made out for abridging the liberties of his fellow-subjects, in the manner proposed to be done by this bill. The people had borne with exemplary patience the severest and most agonizing distress. At the numerous meetings, large beyond example, which had been held in all parts of the country, where was any thing like riotous conduct manifested? It was too much to assume in the face of this peaceable and orderly conduct, that the people ought to meet no more, except under severe restrictions—that a power ought to be given to one magistrate to disperse any meeting, and to apprehend whom he thought proper. Surely it was not asking too much, if they were to delegate such a power, that it should at least be delegated to two magistrates instead of one. Allowing, with gentlemen on the other side of the House, that malignant spirits hail been at work in the country, and had endeavoured to avail themselves of the sufferings of the people, still no riots had taken place any where but in the metropolis. And, after all, in what did that riot consist? In the plunder of two shops, and the summoning of the Tower by one man. The Tower affair was denied by the lord mayor, who was no incompetent judge of what passed on that day. If even one man did summon the Tower to surrender, could it be seriously made the foundation of a suspension of the rights of the subject, and; the enactment of gagging bills? His majesty's government ought to be ashamed to make such a ridiculous proceeding the ground work of new legislation.—He owned that he was not much afraid of any
1113Mr. Calcraft
 admitted, that the estimates of 1792 should be taken as a standard in forming those for the present peace, and that when they were departed from, the burthen of proof lay on the government. On this ground he should be perfectly ready to rest the future discussion of the estimates. The different commissions of naval inquiry and of revision had suggested some departures from the establishment of 1792, which had been adopted on the reasons assigned by them. The assistant secretary of widows pensions was not a new appointment, but the salary had been paid out of the old stores, till it was lately thought proper to bring the office under the cognizance of parliament. The pensions in the army and navy would, as he should hereafter show, be found to be equal, comparing rank and dates. As to the Breakwater, it was not to be supposed that the admiralty, by whom that work was begun, and had been brought if not to a completion, to a state which showed the practicability of it, should now grow lukewarm as to that undertaking, which they might almost call their own.Mr. Croker
 said, he had presented a petition from a person who had acted as a purser for two years, having been 20 years in the service, who was now left without any half-pay.Mr. Curwen
 was deeply convinced of the necessity and propriety of the measures proposed by ministers, when he considered the great mischief which the meetings lately held in the country had produced. The country had a right to expect that ministers should take some effectual measures at a crisis so important as the present, and they had accordingly taken these measures. Unwilling as he or any British subject must be to relinquish any part of that glorious liberty which had been transmitted to us by our memorable ancestors, he still thought it was much better to give up for a time a share of that liberty, than run the danger of losing all. He would rather trust his majesty's ministers with the liberties of the people than he would trust those who were endeavouring to set the country in a flame. He could say, with respect to Glasgow, which he had the honour of representing, that the report of the committee was not over-* charged, for there existed plots there; but he certainly felt it his duty to say, in contradiction to the recent assertion of the learned lord advocate, who must have been misinformed on the subject, that there were no persons of rank concerned in these plots, as there were none but those of the lowest class. There was not in his majesty's dominions a class of men more loyal than the inhabitants of Glasgow as a whole, and he believed the disaffection had been produced by the low, miserable state of the wages given for labour, which had afforded an opportunity to the designing to operate on the distressed. In this bill there was nothing to prevent meetings from being held provided certain regulations calculated for securing the public peace were obeyed, He thought where a magistrate apprehended that there was likely to be danger from a great concourse of people, he acted very right in declining to call a meeting. He lamented the necessity of such measures, but considering them to be indispensable, he felt himself bound to give them his support.Mr. Finlay
 was glad he could contradict the information of the noble lord; or at least assure the House, that it was a gross exaggeration. The person first alluded to had been well treated; he had been first put into one room of the gaol on the debtors side, and then removed to another; but in both of them there was good accommodation. He could appeal to some members of the House acquainted with the Glasgow gaol, and one hon. member opposite who had visited it whether it was not clean, healthy, and well-arranged. He could not speak to the case of the other person; but he was convinced, from the humanity of the magistrates, and his knowledge of the prison, that the statement of the noble lord was either totally unfounded, or grossly exaggerated.Mr. Finlay
1114 could not allow the bill to pass without protesting against it, in the name of the people of this empire. He had been long enough a member of that House to remember three green bag plots, opened with the same pomp as that recently exhibited, all of which terminated in the same evaporation of smoke. Was the country to be thus trifled with, and induced to surrender its liberties, for the prolongation of that base system which was created in 1792? He denied the necessity for these nefarious measures—and the report on which they were founded was a libel on the country; and in this opinion he was fully confirmed by what had passed during the discussions on the subject, and, above all, by the speech of the right hon. gentleman opposite. Several gentlemen had defended the parts of the country to which they belonged from the imputations cast on their public meetings by the report. Though his constituents were not involved in the imputation, he would yet say, that in their recent conduct they preserved the same peaceable, upright, and righteous conduct that had ever distinguished them. If a conspiracy did exist, it was one not against the throne or the constitution, but against the trustees of the people, who neglected and abandoned their interests. If such measures as the present were introduced by
1114Mr. Peter Moore
 considered the provisions of the bill competent and justifiable. The objection of the right hon. gentleman to confide such ample powers in one magistrate, was obviated by the necessity of the times and the case, in the first place; and next, by the consideration that such extended powers were granted but for a very limited time. In many districts it would have been difficult, if not impracticable, to enforce those provisions, were it requisite to call in more than one magistrate for that purpose. There could not be a doubt that, according to the law as it stood, a magistrate might apprehend any person making use of seditious expressions; but according to the present law he had not a right to go to any particular place where he might suspect seditious expressions were likely to be used. But by the bill now under discussion, the magistrate was expressly authorised to go to all meetings—he had a right to be present, which he had not before, in order that he might be enabled to ascertain the character and tendency of the proceedings carrying on.Mr. Serjeant Best
l.1092'Blush for the patience of humanity.'"I sicken, and indignant at the sight,Divide his scanty morsel with his infants,And see the wretched labourer, worn with toil,Then turn me to the but of poverty,Feasting at ease, and lording over millions;In the blood-purpled robes of royalty.On the proud palace, and behold one man,Equality is your birthright;—when I gazeYe are all equal; nature made ye so."My brethren, these are truths and weighty ones:10911090Nicene Creed1089 contended, that the remedy provided by this bill went far beyond the necessity of the case. The reports of the two Houses he considered as the pillars upon which it rested; and as that of the committee of the other House had been laid on their table, he might be allowed to refer to it. He observed, that it accused those persons who supported the principle of universal suffrage of a design to subvert the British constitution. It appeared to him, that this was to charge these persons with a very heinous crime; and that it ought not, therefore, to have been advanced on slight grounds. He believed it to be an accusation, the truth of which it was impossible for the committee to prove. Several different towns and cities were named, as places in which this design was supposed to be entertained; and amongst others, Norwich, the city which he had the honour to represent, was included. He felt it to be his duty to his constituents, and to the country at large, to repel assertions which were so well cal-
l.1092'Blush for the patience of humanity.'"I sicken, and indignant at the sight,Divide his scanty morsel with his infants,And see the wretched labourer, worn with toil,Then turn me to the but of poverty,Feasting at ease, and lording over millions;In the blood-purpled robes of royalty.On the proud palace, and behold one man,Equality is your birthright;—when I gazeYe are all equal; nature made ye so."My brethren, these are truths and weighty ones:10911090Nicene Creed1089Mr. William Smith
, in explanation, said, that the hon. gentleman must have totally forgotten his observation, or he would not have made the remarks he had offered. He had distinctly said, in effect—"God forbid I should say that any man ought to be blamed for a fair change of opinion; but I censure those who, having changed their opinions, conceive that no severity of language is too strong to be made use of against those who still adhered to their former sentiments."Mr. W. Smith
 said, he had not heard any good reason for deferring a work of such national importance.Sir C. Pole
l., said, he believed the conduct of the admiralty had been liberal, and marked with attention to the case of these persons. He contended, that the standard of 1792 should be adopted in the formation of the estimates, and alluded to the office of assistant secretary of widows pensions as a newly-created officer. There was, he observed, an inequality between the regulations with respect to pensions in the navy and army. There was a widow of a captain Harvey, who had received a pension in 1794, which had not been increased up to this day, while the officers who lost their limbs at York Town with lord Cornwallis in the American war had their pensions raised to 250l.,Sir C. Pole
d.s.l. rose to move, that certain sums on account be granted to his majesty for defraying the Ordinary Expenses of the Navy. He proposed to take these sums on account, as in the present stage of the public business he could not give any general view. The navy estimates would be referred to the finance committee: and, after passing through, would be presented in a connected form to the House. He should then feel it his duty to enter into general statements, and afford every opportunity for a fair and full discussion of every detail. Before it was known, however, what the committee would do, such a discussion on the estimates would be premature. After the Easter-holydays, when the alterations and reductions proposed should be completed, he would be prepared to afford every explanation. At present he would pledge the committee to nothing, but would only move, "That a sum not exceeding 1,142,838d.s.l.Sir G. Warrender
d.s.l. then rose to move the vote for the extraordinary service of the navy. As to the Breakwater, whatever difference of opinion there had at first been respecting this work, the importance of it was now universally acknowledged, but it was to be recollected that it was not the only great work now prosecuted by the admiralty. There were works at sheerness of great national utility, which required considerable sums. The absolute immediate necessity of the Breakwater was less, as large fleets were not now kept up. In reducing the estimates to the lowest scale advisable in the present situation of the country, it was thought proper to make a proportionate diminution in all branches of expenditure which could be spared or deferred, and the sum to be expended on the Breakwater had consequently been reduced, but not in a greater proportion than other sums annually expended on other works. It was to be considered that the repair of ships was matter of absolute necessity. He concluded by moving, "That 780,759d.s.l.Sir G. Warrender
 rose to correct a misapprehension in the last speaker. The disturbances in Somersetshire did not arise from any pressure of poverty, for the larger number of the persons engaged in them, were in full work; and he had every reason to believe, that they were induced to revolt from their employers and their country, by the dissemination of mischievous publications, many of which he knew had been circulated among them, and were found on their persons. At the same time, he was warranted in saying, that, taken as a mass, there was not a more loyal population in the country than the inhabitants of Somersetshire.Sir J. C. Hippisley
10881087veto10861085 opposed the motion, and stated, that, independent of his determined hostility to the bill in general, he yet more particularly objected to the preamble now affixed to it. When the House was called upon to vest extraordinary powers in the hands of his majesty's ministers, it was incumbent on the latter to lay strong grounds for such a proceeding. It was to be expected, that the facts on which they relied should be fully set forth in the preamble of their proposed measure; and that no doubt should exist as to their correctness and authenticity. In the present instance, however, the preamble was a false and unsupported libel upon the character of the country; and he would defy any of the right hon. gentlemen opposite to support the allegations it contained. It stated, that assemblies had been held in several parts of the country, under pretext of petitioning the sovereign and parliament, but were really to serve the purposes of factious persons, and to produce riots and disorders. But where were the proofs of those assertions? In what part of the island had that been the case? If he were to look to the numerous meetings held in every part of the country, it must be in the recollection of the House, that there was hardly a single instance wherein the members, presenting their petitions, did not speak of the good order that generally prevailed at them: and it was really too much, if one unfortunate instance had occurred of riot and disorder, that the whole country should be branded by one sweeping allegation of disloyalty and disaffection. Some symptoms of disorder might have appeared in part of the kingdom, but they arose solely from the pressure of distress, and not from any spirit of disaffection to the government. If he looked for proof of this allegation, even to the meeting at Spa-fields, which was unhappily the source of tumult and outrage, while he lamented the disgraceful scenes displayed in London on the 2d of December, he must still express his satisfaction, on perceiving that the laws then in existence had been sufficient to check the evil almost in its commencement, and to prevent any pernicious consequences. The hon. gentleman who presided over the city, assisted by an hon. alderman, a member of the House, had, as it were by their own personal exertions, stopped the career of riot, and dispersed
10881087veto10861085Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, he did not approve of the system now adopted of voting money on account, as a greater sum was thus put at the disposal of ministers for one half the year, than they would afterwards be found to be entitled to; but under the present circumstances of the country he should not object to the motion before them. Though he had not succeeded in his motion on a former night for the reduction of the number of the lords of the admiralty, he trusted that subject would come under the consideration of the finance committee, and that they would give effect to that which he had proposed; If that did not happen, he should think it his duty at some future time to bring before the House the question of the propriety of at least curtailing the salaries of these officers. He had to state that he had received many statements from acting pursers, who complained of the hard situation in which they were now left. In 1816, he understood they had sent in a statement of their case to the admiralty, who ordered that they should send in their acting orders. They were accordingly sent in on the 1st of Jan. 1817, and notice was given that they were under consideration; but since that time no answer had been sent.Sir M. W. Ridley
110211011100109910981097 expected to have heard some gentleman on the other side
110211011100109910981097Sir Samuel Romilly
 opposed a clause introduced by the attorney-general, which enacted that the provisions of the act should not extend to Ireland. Sir John said, that in Ireland there were societies called Orange Societies, which were in hostility to three-fourths of their fellow-countrymen, and were bound together by secret oaths, and by oaths of qualified allegiance; he therefore wished that the provisions of the act respecting illegal Societies should extend to Ireland.Sir John Newport
1133 presented at the bar, a petition from the Lord Mayor, Alderman, and Commons of the City of London, setting forth, "That the petitioners have, with great pain, long witnessed the ill effects of lotteries, in destroying industrious habits, in estranging men from their families, and in corrupting their morals; and that, in these days of general distress, when the profits of trade are reduced beyond all former example, when so many individuals of the labouring classes are thrown out of work, and the poor-rates have augmented to a degree almost insupportable, it appears to the petitioners to be peculiarly impolitic to encourage gambling among the poor; that, although the institution of saving banks maybe of considerable benefit, and promises to be be of much greater, in giving an incentive to honest industry, and habits of frugality and sobriety, the petitioners are at a loss to account for the conduct of his majesty's ministers, who, on the one
1133The Sheriffs of London
 considered, that it would be more advantageous to postpone the general discussion upon this subject till the whole of the estimates should be before the House. He rose chiefly for the purpose of expressing the surprise with which he had read an advertisement purporting to issue from the ordnance board, addressed to map-sellers, and forbidding them to make any use or publish any copies of the trigonometrical surveys of the country, which had been taken at the public expense, under the immediate direction of the ordnance board. This appeared to him to be acting in the spirit of a pedlering trader, rather than of a public department. Many could not afford to purchase the original chart, and by this prohibition, the general object of utility would be defeated. It was not upon this principle that foreign governments acted. In Paris any one might go to the map-board, and see not only those which were, but those which were not published.Mr. Bennet
1136l. said, that he held in his hand a petition from Mr. R. G. Butt, stating, that the fine of 1,0001136l.Lord Cochrane
l.,l., would not then say a word on the motion which the noble lord intended to make; but he desired to observe, that the facts mentioned in the petition had been before him, and he found, that the fine levied under the authority of the court of King's-bench had been duly applied. It was ridiculous to suppose, that any misapplication could have been made of a sum paid under the sentence of one of the supreme courts of justice. No doubt existed in his mind, but that this individual laboured, on this as he did on other points, under a considerable delusion of mind.l.,l.,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 desired to express his approbation of the great reductions in the ordnance, and hoped it would be the model and scale on which other reductions would be made. Something, he hoped, would be proposed by the committee above stairs; but he anticipated, with great satisfaction, that after Easter the House would be able to resume some of those functions which appeared now to be too much in abeyance.Mr. Brougham
 rose and stated, that on the suggestion of the noble lord, the secretary at war, that ministers were making their arrangements for the peace establishment of the army, and, that, consequently, when they brought forward their new Mutiny bill in June would be the more convenient opportunity to agitate the question, he should, in case the schedule marked B, permitting enlistments for life, unfortunately stood part of that bill, on the three grounds of its being a gross violation of natural justice, of its being productive of an incalculable aggregate of individual misery, and of its being a flagrant intervention on the constitutional law of England—move, that that clause be in that bill omitted.Mr. Gurney
 said, that with respect to reductions in general, if the hon. gentleman referred to a state of full war, the present establishments were great; but the House must now look to peace establishments. If ministers thought themselves obliged to keep up the ordnance, he must say, that their estimates were extremely large. He admitted that very considerable efforts at reduction had been made, but they might be carried still farther in the army and ordnance. He should by no means press for any farther reductions in the navy. He did not know, indeed, whether the navy was not too much reduced already.Mr. Calcraft
l.,1135 said, that instead of the sum alluded to by the hon. baronet being incurred by the heads of the department, it was, in fact, the tails of the department
l.,1135Mr. R. Ward
l., said, it was intended that the sale of the maps should defray their expense, and that was the reason why the property in them had been so carefully guarded. He was surprised that the hon. gentleman, who was so zealous for economy in every branch of the public expenditure, should object to a proceeding which would prevent the necessity of recurring to the usual annual grant of 10,000l.,Mr. R. Ward
l.,1134§l.l.l.,l.l.l.,l.l., said, it was his intention to move a vote on account, as had been done, with regard to the army and navy estimates; and that no farther supply should be granted at present for the service of the ordnance department, than for the six months ending on the 30th June, 1817. He trusted that the accounts were not likely to give rise to much altercation: and he deemed it right to state to the House what had been the extent of the different reductions in this branch of the public expenditure. The charge for the ordinary service was this year 538,175l.,1134§l.l.l.,l.l.l.,l.l.,Mr. R. Ward
l.l. was glad, however late, to see ministers taking credit for economy; but he observed, that the first article in these estimates was the sum of 43,793l.l.Sir M. W. Ridley
1188l.1187quantumquantummalum in se felt with the hon. and learned gentleman opposite, that the question had been so often discussed, and the arguments so strongly impressed on the minds of gentlemen that it was unnecessary for him to travel over it in detail. It would give him great satisfaction, if the situation of the country would allow his majesty's ministers to give up any tax that went, even indirectly, to debase the morals of the people. But this was not the only branch of revenue which his hon. friend (Mr. Wilberforce) would find it very easy to inveigh against as having a tendency unfavourable to morals. There were many taxes that bore heavily on all ranks of society particularly on the lowest ranks; and it would be very easy for a gentleman possessed of his hon. friend's eloquence, to dwell on the privations which they occasioned as a ground for their removal. He might descant on the misery, the crimes, the immorality, that arose out of the consumption of many articles, that produced a considerable portion of revenue. They ought to look to the present state of the country, and consider if they could afford to give up any portion of the revenue, before they indulged too strongly those feelings, the principle of which was hostile not merely, to the lottery, but to many other sources of revenue. If this were a thing 1188l.1187quantumquantummalum in seLord Castlereagh
 was of opinion, that lotteries occasioned a vast deal of mischief; and that if we abolished lotteries, other countries would be found to follow our example. The mischiefs of lotteries in Paris, were greater even than here. A writer, who had recently published a volume of travels, particularly stated, that the lotteries in Paris had produced the most dreadful effects. He was told by a person connected with one of those gambling establishments, that the lotteries occasioned, in Paris, 100 instances of suicide in the course of the year. The king of Spain, it seemed amongst the other extraordinary acts of his reign, had instituted a lottery on the English plan.—He did not choose to imitate any of our beneficial establishments—he would not introduce toleration, or trial by jury, or any other useful and praise-worthy system—nothing but a lottery would please him. The lottery was now extended to the most remote villages. He had seen lottery invitations stuck up, directing applications to the post-masters in the neighbourhood. It was certainly curious, at the time of the assizes, to hear the clerk, in court, reading the king's proclamation against gambling and other vices, while his majesty's post-master outside of the door was tempting the people to a gambling speculation, by representing himself as an authorized vender of lottery tickets and shares.Mr. Morland
1168 took that opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the distinction made between the English and Welch judges with regard to the capacity of sitting in that House. The constituents of the learned serjeant himself had nothing to complain of, as it remained for them to determine whether their representative was likely to be as attentive to their interests as before his acceptance of this office; but the point was of great constitutional importance: and he had never been able to understand at what period this difference between English and Welch judges originated. The latter had duties equally arduous, although not so frequently exercised, as those of the former: they had to sit in judgment in cases affecting the property, reputation, and lives of his majesty's subjects. The due exercise of their functions required the same general qualifications, the same impartiality of character, and the same abstinence from party conflicts. He was, he confessed, at a loss to determine how such an irregularity could have ever been allowed by the constitution. The fact, however, unfortunately was, that they were considered not professional, but political offices; and were, he had reason to believe, not in the gift of the lord chancellor but of the first lord of the treasury. These observations were evidently not directed against the recent appointment of the learned Serjeant, whose great practice and long experience fully qualified him for the situation. Whatever regret, however, the House might feel at the absence of his talents, he did not think it could be attended with much surprise. It count not have failed to have attracted notice, that the hon. and learned serjeant had some time since changed his original seat on the opposition benches, for one which might be regarded as neutral territory; and that he had subsequently removed to one which was not only nearer to, but was the very threshold of the treasury. The House, he thought, was bound to take into its consideration the propriety of suffering any man to unite in himself the characters of a member of parliament and of a judge. In point of practical consequence, it was undeniable, that those hon. members generally placed implicit confidence in the ministers of the Crown. He had heard of many visionary projects for parliamentary reform,
1168Sir S. Romilly
 was desirous of asking for information with respect to certain legal proceedings in the county palatine of Chester. He recollected to have heard his hon. and learned friend who had just spoken, when a new writ was moved for on the occasion of the present attorney-general being appointed to the office of chief justice of Chester, pointing out the possibility of his being called upon to sit judicially upon cases which it had been his duty to prosecute as attorney-general. If what he had heard was to be relied on, this conflict of duties had now arrived. He understood that several persons had been arrested within the jurisdiction of his court, and were about to be tried for offences against the state, which must have come under his cognizance as attorney-general. It was, he conceived, impossible that the hon. and learned gentleman should preside at those trials; and the result of this must be the loss to the state of his services, or the inconvenience of appointing a special commission. In the one case he supposed the duty must fall on the attorney-general of the duchy of Cornwall (Mr. serjeant Best); but he remembered an instance in which a former attorney-general of Cornwall (Mr. Adam) had deemed it becoming to resign that office on his appointment to a judgeship. However liable he might be to misconstruction in these remarks, he felt that it was impossible to be too anxious on so important a principle of the constitution; and he could assure the House, that he was at the same time expressing sentiments which were generally entertained by the profession to which he belonged.Mr. Abercrombie
1169 said, that the hon. and learned gentleman was completely mistaken in supposing that any thing so indecent could be committed as that he, the king's attorney-general should direct prosecutions which he should afterwards try in his capacity as chief justice of Chester. If there were persons in custody in Ches-
1169The Attorney General
 said, that the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman had proved beyond the possibility of doubt, that the two offices of attorney-general and of chief justice of Chester were incompatible. He could not, in fact, do his duty in the one capacity, but by neglecting it in the other; he could not execute his functions as chief justice of Chester without foregoing his duty as attorney-general. The principle was extremely wrong, and contrary to the direct nature and spirit of the constitution, that any person exercising judicial functions should have a seat in the House of Commons. He was surprised how the practice could have existed so long and if no other individual took the matter up, he would after the Easter holidays, propose a motion for disqualifying such persons.Mr. Ponsonhy
 observed, that since the hon. and learned gentleman had been chief justice of Chester, some causes had been tried in which the Crown had a great interest relating to Delamere forest; the hon. and learned gentleman very properly abstained from sitting, and they were tried by one of the puisne judges, but the consequence was, that the Crown did not have the assistance which it ought to have had from the hon. and learned gentleman's talents.Sir S. Romilly
3. "That this House therefore will no longer authorize the establishment of State Lotteries, under any system of regulation whatever."2. "That such Lotteries are attended with peculiar evils, which the severest regulations have failed to extinguish, and which have been repressed only by laws, whose provisions are arbitrary and unconstitutional, and their enforcement liable to the greatest abuse.1. "That, by the establishment of State Lotteries, a spirit of gambling is encouraged and provoked, which abates the moral strength of the state, and must ultimately diminish its financial resources.
3. "That this House therefore will no longer authorize the establishment of State Lotteries, under any system of regulation whatever."2. "That such Lotteries are attended with peculiar evils, which the severest regulations have failed to extinguish, and which have been repressed only by laws, whose provisions are arbitrary and unconstitutional, and their enforcement liable to the greatest abuse.1. "That, by the establishment of State Lotteries, a spirit of gambling is encouraged and provoked, which abates the moral strength of the state, and must ultimately diminish its financial resources.1176l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1175s.l.1174l.1173"G. W. ODELL.""C. GRANT, junior,"N. VANSITTART,
"G. W. ODELL.""C. GRANT, junior,"N. VANSITTART,"Whitehall, Treasury Chambers, the 11 th day of March, 1817.
"G. W. ODELL.""C. GRANT, junior,"N. VANSITTART,
"G. W. ODELL.""C. GRANT, junior,"N. VANSITTART,"After our hearty commendations, having considered the above scheme of the fifth and supplementary lotteries, to be drawn pursuant to the provisions of an act of 56 Geo. 3d, we do hereby signify to you our consent and approbation of the said scheme.1172l.l.l.l.l.l.l.;l.1171l.1170 rose, in pursuance of his notice, to call the attention of the House to the dangerous, immoral, and fraudulent measure so long established in this country as a financial arrangement, of raising money upon the people by way of lotteries. The prejudices that prevailed against a subject of this kind as well as
3. "That this House therefore will no longer authorize the establishment of State Lotteries, under any system of regulation whatever."2. "That such Lotteries are attended with peculiar evils, which the severest regulations have failed to extinguish, and which have been repressed only by laws, whose provisions are arbitrary and unconstitutional, and their enforcement liable to the greatest abuse.1. "That, by the establishment of State Lotteries, a spirit of gambling is encouraged and provoked, which abates the moral strength of the state, and must ultimately diminish its financial resources.
3. "That this House therefore will no longer authorize the establishment of State Lotteries, under any system of regulation whatever."2. "That such Lotteries are attended with peculiar evils, which the severest regulations have failed to extinguish, and which have been repressed only by laws, whose provisions are arbitrary and unconstitutional, and their enforcement liable to the greatest abuse.1. "That, by the establishment of State Lotteries, a spirit of gambling is encouraged and provoked, which abates the moral strength of the state, and must ultimately diminish its financial resources.1176l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1175s.l.1174l.1173"G. W. ODELL.""C. GRANT, junior,"N. VANSITTART,
"G. W. ODELL.""C. GRANT, junior,"N. VANSITTART,"Whitehall, Treasury Chambers, the 11 th day of March, 1817.
"G. W. ODELL.""C. GRANT, junior,"N. VANSITTART,
"G. W. ODELL.""C. GRANT, junior,"N. VANSITTART,"After our hearty commendations, having considered the above scheme of the fifth and supplementary lotteries, to be drawn pursuant to the provisions of an act of 56 Geo. 3d, we do hereby signify to you our consent and approbation of the said scheme.1172l.l.l.l.l.l.l.;l.1171l.1170The Hon. Mr. Lyttelton
l.l.l.l.l.s.l.s.l.117911781177prima facie rose to impress on the House the important truth, that on the preservation of what remained of the public income of the county, the security of the empire depended. If they did not most seriously weigh every proposition, the tendency of which was to reduce that income, the situation of the country must speedily become most alarming. There was little of novelty in the speech made by the hon. gentleman, and he trusted therefore that the House would come to the same decision upon the proposition as they had done upon that brought forward by the hon. gentleman last year. With respect to the objections urged by the hon. gentleman against the details of the measure, they had no bearing on the principle of it. There was nothing immoral and illegal in the principle, unless all games of chance were l.l.l.l.l.s.l.s.l.117911781177prima facieThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 declared, in opposition to what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, that innocent persons had frequently suffered in consequence of false informations being laid against them under the lottery acts. He particularly alluded to the case of two sisters whom he had seen in the house of correction for perjury, and who, he had no doubt, had been the cause of much mischief to many innocent persons.Mr. Bennet
 said, this was a question that could be more properly answered by his noble friend, with whose department the subject was connected.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1192 did not wish to embarrass the right hon. gentleman, but this he would repeat again and again, with a loud voice, that England had in no foreign quarter of the globe, so strong an interest as in South America. It had been asserted in another place, that this government had interfered with the United States, as to the conduct its citizens ought to pursue with respect to the Spanish provinces. It was of the utmost importance that the truth of
1192Mr. Ponsonby
 must again observe, that this matter belonged to the department of his noble friend, who was not then present.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 bore his testimony to the good conduct of the governor.Mr. Bennet
 from his connexion with Trinidad, could not refrain from stating, that the present form of government was the subject of loud complaint, and that in addition to the general evils which had been stated, he had been informed, that the governor had refused to give an asylum to some of the Spanish insurgents, who had fled thither for protection, and had sent them back, where they were all murdered; and that British hospitality had been actually sold in that island.Mr. Marryat,
 said, the hon. and learned gentleman had better move for the production of any papers he might wish on the latter subject when his noble friend was present, to whose department the subjects referred to more particularly belonged.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 contended, that the numerous mischiefs arising from lotteries had been proved over and over again in that House. They were subjected to the charge of all the evils of gaming. Was the country really reduced to so low an ebb as to cause ministers to bargain and sell its vices?—for the lottery was nothing else. If our finances were in such a distressed state under the noble lord's and his colleagues auspices, their conduct must have occasioned it. There was not one instance in all the reports that could palliate any of the facts stated by his hon. friend, of the evils and bad policy of lotteries, in any shape. The sum total that could be said in favour of them was this—"We want revenue, and revenue we must have, even at the expense of the morals and character of the people, and, what is of more consequence, the character of parliament."Lord A. Hamilton
 in explanation, said, that he did not intend the slightest imputation on the distinguished judge of the island. On the contrary, he was convinced that he discharged the difficult duties of his situation with great honour to himself and great advantage to the community.Mr. A. Browne,
 said, he was very happy to find his hon. and learned friend applying his great talents to the consideration of the little politics of Trinidad; and as they had the misfortune of contending with him on questions of great colonial policy, he was rejoiced that they should now have the benefit of his exertions in investigating the evils of the internal government of that island. Those evils would be found to be of a serious nature; in addition to the restriction of all intercourse with the Spanish main, which was a great source of their prosperity, and indeed of their daily subsistence, they had to contend with the evils of a despotic government, which was under no sort of local check or control; and they had the still deeper evil of a privation of British laws, and the strange anomaly of living under a Spanish code of laws administered by a British judge.Mr. A. Browne
 concurred in this explanation as far as it related to the judge of the island.Mr. Brougham
 said, he should have thought, if any thing had been done with regard to such matters, it would have been known to all the cabinet ministers. However, he should move to-morrow for the production of any correspondence that might have taken place. Meanwhile, he should content himself with moving "That an humble address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, that he will be graciously pleased to give directions that there be laid before this House, copies of all proclamations, issued by the governor of Trinidad, since the 1st of January 1814, touching the intercourse with South America."Mr. Brougham
 wished to know if the right hon. gentleman opposite would have any objection to inform the House whether the proclamations issued by the governor of Trinidad were put forth upon his authority alone, or in consequence of instructions received from his government at home? He also wished to know whether any information could be communicated respecting our relations with the Spanish and Portuguese ports of South America, in possession of what were called the insurgents? It was a question of great importance to our merchants. He had heard that the Spanish government had agreed to cede Monte Video to Portugal, in exchange for Olivenza. Now, he maintained that Monte Video did not belong to Spain, but to the independent party; or, as they were sometimes improperly called, the revolted settlements, which had conquered it before the restoration of Ferdinand; and that therefore Ferdinand could have no right to dispose of it. Be this as it might, he understood, that a force of 10,000 Portuguese troops were now under the walls of the place; and this was of the more importance, as they were said to have been handed over, in a complete state of discipline and equipment by lord Beresford, to the Portuguese commander. He did not know whether our funds had also been employed in the preparation of this force, but he considered the intelligence to be of a very ominous nature.Mr. Brougham
l.1184l.l. observed, that it was a serious question how to supply the sum of 500,000l.1184l.l.Mr. J. W. Ward
1189 admitted, that it was of
1189Mr. Thompson
—46Majority
—46Majority26Against it
26Against it72For the previous question
72For the previous question
—46Majority
—46Majority26Against it
26Against it72For the previous question
72For the previous question1190 in reply, denied both the moral principle and policy of lotteries, which tended to choke up the springs of industry. He was glad, however, to hear that the principle of the thing was given
—46Majority
—46Majority26Against it
26Against it72For the previous question
72For the previous question
—46Majority
—46Majority26Against it
26Against it72For the previous question
72For the previous question1190Mr. Lyttelton
1186l.1185 expressed great surprise that the hon. gentleman who had just spoken did not mean to yield to the force of his own arguments; and that he should
1186l.1185Mr. Wilberforce
 said, he should not then take upon himself to trouble the House with any opinion, whether it would be more advisable that Trinidad should be under Spanish or British laws; but he would confidently say, that the laws of that island would never be administered with greater justice than they were by the individual now at the head of it.Sir M. W. Ridley
1183l.l.l.l.l.l.118211811180 greatly lamented
1183l.l.l.l.l.l.118211811180Sir Samuel Romilly
 hoped, that the bill alluded to would be presented to the House in a day or two. As soon as it was before the House, he should move that it be printed, as that would be the most sure mode of conveying accurate information as to the nature of the bill. It having been in several cases decided by the judges, that buildings originally erected to serve as dwelling houses, were liable to assessment as such, although afterwards converted into warehouses, the object of the bill in question was, to declare explicitly that no building should be liable to assessment which would not have been liable, if originally built for the purpose for which it was then used. It was therefore obvious that the object of the bill was by no means to lay on any new tax, but rather the reverse.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1193 rose for the purpose of obtaining leave to bring in a bill to provide for the establishment of Lunatic Asylums in Scotland. It was proposed to extend the advantages of the bill introduced by his right hon. friend (Mr. Rose) to that part of the country; and it would be recollected, that that measure was founded upon the report of a committee detailing instances of in humanity and suffering, on which it must always be painful, and was now unnecessary to dwell. With a view of extending the advantages of the inquiry to that part of the island to which he belonged, a set of
1193Lord Binning
1197 said, he did not think that the hon. and learned gentleman meant to press his motion, for if it should be agreed to, the return to it must be in the negative, because he (lord C.) was not in possession of any such treaty. He had no difficulty in stating that the British government was no party, direct or indirect to the course of policy pursued by Spain towards her colonies. The conduct which this country followed with reference to these disputes was, that of adhering to a system of strict neutrality, and not that which the hon. and learned gentleman seemed to recommend—to assist the colonies against the native country, which would be in direct contravention to the treaties between Great Britain and Spain. While marshal Beresford was employed in the service of another power, so long as he was not recalled from that service by this country, the capacity in which he acted as in the service of that power must not be confused with his character of a British subject. His conduct must be considered as directed by the Portuguese govern-
1197Lord Castlereagh
 said, the principle was perfectly recognized by all the European powers, that the subject of one Crown might be employed in the service of another, so long as he was not recalled. The motion was then withdrawn.Lord Castlereagh
1199 vote to put a question to the noble lord, which was not irrelevant to the subject that had been just disposed of. A bill was, he understood, lately in-
1199Mr. Ponsonby
 had no difficulty in stating, that the prohibition alluded to, on the part of the United States, was taken solely on the view of that power as to its own policy, and not in consequence of any suggestion or interference from any other quarter.Lord Castlereagh
1200** said, he was glad to receive such an answer from the noble lord. He then begged leave to advert to a treaty signed at Madrid on the 5th of July 1814, by the British minister, on the part of his Britannic majesty, and Ferdinand 7th of Spain. In this treaty he found one article (the fourth) with the following stipulation:— "In the event of the commeree of the Spanish American possessions being open to foreign nations, his Catholic majesty promises that Great Britain shall be admitted to trade with those possessions as the most favoured nation." * That is, that she shall have a fair participation in any advantage which may arise to her as a commercial country, from the South American trade being so thrown open. To this treaty there had been affixed three additional articles. To the third of these, he begged to call the particular attention of the noble lord op-
1200**Mr. Ponsonby
1201 thought it extraordinary that this treaty should have so long escaped the attention of the right hon. gentleman. It had lain on the table nearly two years, and yet until this moment no objection was made to its provisions. The strict meaning of neutrality was, that we should not interfere by force or direct influence in the quarrel between the parties; but he never heard that the principle of our mediation, in the face of Europe,
1201Lord Castlereagh
 admitted, that the treaty had been laid on the table on the 16th of March, 1815. It was equally the fact, that he had not, until within the last few days, heard of such a treaty. It was then laid upon the table, among a number of other papers, and no step taken upon it, either in the shape of an address of thanks to the Prince Regent for presenting it, or a motion in approbation of its provisions. Under these circumstances he was not surprised that it had been overlooked.Mr. Ponsonby
 said, the hon. and learned gentleman seemed to argue the question as if British officers were now serving against the colonies. This was not the fact. He did not believe that there was a single British officer in the Portuguese army who was not now in Portugal, with the exception of marshal Beresford. As to the other case put by, the hon. and learned gentleman, he felt that we were acting a part strictly neutral. At the same time, it was to be considered that, on the one side, there were ties of alliance with our government; while, on the other side, there were none; therefore he could not allow the hon. and learned gentleman to carry his parallel so far as to pass over such a consideration. As to Trinidad, certainly, if steps were taken to supply one of the parties carrying on hostilities with arms, to be used expressly for the annoyance of the other party, that would be a breach of neutrality. He could not be expected to say any thing that would look like countenancing British officers to serve on the side of the insurgents, when there were none such serving against them.Lord Castlereagh
 did not feel himself bound to answer the question; as a fitter opportunity would shortly arrive.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that as to marshal Beresford, it might be true, that he was not serving against the insurgents; but was it true that that officer had been engaged in superintending the embarkation and organization of the force which proceeded against Monte Video?Mr. Brougham
 said, that in the second additional article of the treaty alluded to, there was the following declaration:— "His Catholic majesty, concurring in the fullest means in the sentiments of his Britannic majesty with respect to the injustice and inhumanity of the traffic in slaves, will take into consideration with the deliberation which the state of his possessions in America demands, the means of acting in uniformity with those sentiments." Now this deliberation on the part of his Catholic majesty had lasted more than two years, and the result of it seemed to be, that the trade in slaves was rather encouraged than restricted. In one year since this treaty was signed 20,000 slaves had been imported into the island of Cuba, and 40,000 into the territories of our faithful ally the king of Portugal. He requested to know whether any correspondence had taken place on the subject of the fulfilment of the second additional article of this treaty?Mr. Brougham
1198 said, there was one thing more as to which he begged some information from the noble lord. It was said, that nothing was done by the British government to give room for the supposition that it espoused the one cause more than the other; that the system acted on was one of perfect neutrality; that marshal Beresford's acts were merely those of an officer in the service of Portugal, and did not in any way commit the British government; that not only marshal Beresford, but many other British officers in the Portuguese service were in the same situation. So far it was all very well. But if any number of our officers or men should engage on the side of the colonies, was it to be understood that no umbrage would be taken, but that the scales of neutrality would be equally and scrupulously poised between the two powers? He would ask, whether it had-not been prohibited by the
1198Mr. Brougham
11961195 rose to move for the production of certain papers connected with a treaty between Portugal and Spain. As he was in the dark as to the nature of the facts, he might have occasion to request some information from the other side of the House to guide his motion. All that he at present knew was, that about seven or eight months ago an expedition, partly
11961195Mr. Brougham
 wished to know when the new bill relative to the Asssessment of Warehouses was to be brought in, and observed, that from the reports which had gone abroad with respect to the nature of this bill, much anxiety was felt on the subject.General Gascoyne
 moved, "That leave be given to bring in a bill to explain and amend an act made in the 48th of his present majesty, for repealing the duties of assessed taxes, and granting new duties in lieu thereof, and to exempt such dwelling houses as may be employed for the sole purpose of trade, or of lodging goods, wares, or merchandise, from the duties charged by the said act." He repeated the explanation given by the chancellor of the exchequer, that the object of the bill would be to exempt from the operation of the tax those places that it was out of doors conceived would be affected by it, and not to impose any new tax whatever. Its object was, to exempt such offices or dwelling-houses connected with warehouses, for the sole purpose of trade.Mr. Lushington
 said, that there seemed to be a strange anomaly in the situation of lord Beresford. It was true, that he was an officer in the service of the king of Portugal, but at the same time he was still a British officer; and would not those proceedings in which he acted be considered as sanctioned by the British government?Mr. Lamb
 said, he did not recollect that his hon. and learned friend had made any such charge; and he was the more certain that he had not (at least in his hearing), because, from the knowledge he had of the governor of that island, and the respect he felt for him, he should certainly have risen to state, that he believed him utterly incapable of the alleged conduct. The observation must have been directed, not against the governor, but against the assessor of the island, a Spaniard of the name of Gomez, and who, from all he had heard, was totally unfit to hold the situation.Mr. Bennet
 said, he found he had mistaken the hon. gentleman, in supposing he alluded to his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Brougham), instead of the hon. member for Sandwich (Mr. Marryat).Mr. Bennet
 could not think the House would object to the issue of exchequer bills, when they considered how much more advantageous such a mode of raising money was, than contracting a loan with the three per cents at 80. He admitted that it would be injurious to the country to continue such a system from year to year; but he approved of it as a temporary expedient, until an opportunity should arise of converting the unfunded into a funded debt, with more advantage than could be done at present.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that the exchequer bills were usually deposited in the bank of England, and bank notes, bearing no interest, issued on them; and that this was the cause of the present rise in the funds.Lord Cochrane
 said, that if the noble lord had inquired in the city, he would have found that exchequer bills were disposed of in a very different manner, and that they bore a high premium in the market.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought it strange that the hon. member should censure ministers for a reputed act, which he acknowledged was without foundation. The hon. member was correct in saying that such rumours were wholly without foundation; no negociations had been entered into with the dock company concerning it. But he at the same time reserved on the part of the government and the country, a right of participating in their profits if they should find it necessary.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that the friends of reform appealed to the authority of Mr Pitt in his early life, while the opponents of that measure referred to his conduct in matured life, and particularly after the experience of the French revolution. Whatever had been the practice alluded to, he certainly would never admit that petitions manufactured in London, and sent down ready made to the country, perhaps imperfectly representing, if not contradicting, the sentiments of the subscribers, could be entitled to the same consideration as those which proceeded generally from the dictation of petitioners themselves; nor would it be just that they should, though such, it would appear, had been the sentiments of his hon. and learned friend.The Hon. J. W. Ward
 denied that Mr. Pitt had ever given his countenance to the doctrine of universal suffrage, and from the habits of intimacy in which he was with him, he could take upon himself to say, that he believed he never was a party to the manufacturing of petitions.Mr. Bankes
 said, that after his hon. friend had voted two or three times in favour of parliamentary reform, it peculiarly became him to be the apologist for Mr. Pitt's change of opinions. While he was on his legs, he begged to say, that as to the statement made the other evening of a petition from Dumfriesshire having been signed by children, he had that day received a letter from a very respectable gentleman on the spot, who directly contradicted that statement.Lord A. Hamilton
*1210 said, that either the hon. gentleman must have greatly misconceived what he stated, or he was not in the House at the time. He had particularly mentioned that Mr. Pitt did not go all the lengths of the duke of Richmond, as to universal suffrage; but it was curious, when the reformers were twitted and taunted with being enemies to their country, or jacobins, it was studiously kept out of sight, that Mr. Pitt was once a most strenuous and active reformer. He had only to refer them to the correspondence of the Rev. Mr. Wyvill, to see the notes that had passed between Mr. Pitt and the active reformers of that day. In the case of the king v. Frost, who was a respectable attorney, but certainly not of equal consequence with Mr. Pitt, it was proved, that Mr. Pitt had addressed him as a "zealous friend" to the public, on no other account
*1210Mr. Brougham
 presented a petition from the inhabitants of the ward of Bishopsgate, praying for Parliamentary Reform. The subject had been so frequently before the House that it remained only for him to protest against the delusion, so much depended upon, by the opponents of the measure, that no weight ought to be given to the numerous petitioners in favour of reform, because the petitions had been set on foot by persons who were actively engaged in recommending that measure. Let those who advanced that doctrine accept the challenge he had before thrown out, let them in their turn set on foot petitions against reform, and see what number of signatures they could obtain. The result, he had no doubt, would establish the fact, that a very great majority of the people were solicitous for a constitutional reform in the representation. With respect to the manufacturing of petitions as it was called, it was to be recollected that Mr. Pitt and the duke of Richmond, both concurred (though it was due to the former to say that he never did proceed to the length of universal suffrage) in the propriety of circulating petitions in furtherance of their object, for the signatures of those who were friendly to reform.Mr. Brougham
l. censured the plan of finance, from hand to mouth, which the chancellor of the exchequer was pursuing, as one which had no solid foundation. Some other expedients, to which the right hon. gentleman would have recourse, were rumoured abroad, but they were of a nature that he could not credit, and he mentioned them solely to give him an opportunity of contradicting them. The House must be aware, that the West-India dock company were bound by an act of the 39th of the king, after their dividends had reached 10 per cent, to divide no more, but to reduce the rates of admission to the docks, in favour of the trade of the country. One would think that while the trade of the country laboured so excessively as it did at present, government would gladly resort to every means of affording it some relief; but the report stated, that instead of so doing, government, like spendthrifts, without even waiting for the expiration of the 21 years of the company's charter, were resolved to renew their lease, and receive from them a fine of about 5 or 600,000l.Mr. Brougham
 replied, that having seen the charge so stated, in the usual channels by which the debates in that House were made public, and having made inquiries among the members, he was led to understand that what he had asserted was correct.Mr. Goulburn
, in presenting certain proclamations issued by the governor of Trinidad, said, he could have wished to vindicate that individual from the imputations cast upon him by an hon. and learned gentleman (Mr. Brougham), whom he did not then see in his place. As he was not present, however, he should merely make one observation upon the charge, that British hospitality was sold in that island for the emolument of the governor. It was the invariable rule of that colony, that no fees were paid for permission to reside there, and the hon. and learned member, therefore, who had made the accusation, was altogether misinformed.Mr. Goulburn
 wished to be informed, whether it was the intention of the chancellor of the exchequer, before he communicated to the House his view of the ways and means for the year, to add still farther to the unfunded debt of the country, amounting, as it did now, to fifty millions, what must be the effect of such a floating debt, in the event of a change in our relations? Unless the right hon. gentleman was assured, that the tenure of his office was in perpetuity, he surely ought to feel what would be the nature of his successor's difficulties, under any change of system, in consequence of the course he was pursuing. It might throw wealth into the coffers of the bank of England, but the country had something more to expect, under its difficulties, from a public minister, than this trifling game with any public body.Mr. Barnett
 said, that there was a redundancy of floating cash in the market, of which the chancellor of the exchequer was perfectly right to take advantage. He hoped, however, that his right hon. friend would not think of inducing the House to continue the monopoly to the dock company against the best interests of the commerce of the country.Alderman Atkins
 said, that the hon. gentleman (Mr. Ward) had, in his mind, misrepresented the nature of Mr. Pitt's support to the cause of parliamentary reform. He could assure that hon. gentleman, that so late as the Irish union, Mr. Pitt in the arrangement of the representation of that part of the united kingdom, had taken the utmost pains to secure to the people the power of returning sixty out of the hundred members who were to be returned to parliament.Mr. Sharp
 observed, that the hon. member for Sandwich certainly did say, that British hospitality was sold in the island of Trinidad, but he did not understand him to affirm, that it was sold for the profit of the governor.Mr. T. Courtenay
 said, that as another bill (sir E. Knatchbull's) was then pending in the House, which met with general approbation, and had the same object in view as the present one, he thought that the measure of the hon. and learned gentleman should be suspended, until the other came under their consideration. He would, therefore, move as an amendment, that the bill be read a second time on Monday se'nnight.Mr. Bankes
1221ex post facto said, that this bill was intended to repeal one which had been passed last year, in order to punish persons going out at night with arms in their hands to steal game. In its application, however, the bill had been made to punish persons who had been taken with nothing about them but nets, for the purpose of ensnaring game with seven years transportation, which punishment had only been intended to meet the other offence. He did not object to that offence being punished with transportation, and what he had in view would be in a great measure accomplished by the bill brought in by the hon. member for Kent, but that bill could not now be passed till the next quarter sessions were over. But for this circumstance he should not be anxious to press the bill now under consideration. When, however, he reflected, that if the subject were suffered to lie over till after the next quarter sessions, many persons, comparatively innocent, would probably suffer under the existing law, he thought it of importance that this bill should pass without loss of time. He had heard of several cases of great hardship which had occurred under the act now in force-cases, in which persons, whose offences were not of an aggravated nature, had been sentenced to transportation, partly on account of the character they had previously borne. In some cases, its operation had been peculiarly hard on those tried under it, as it had come upon them like an 1221ex post factoSir S. Romilly
1222 said, he had committed the persons just alluded to, and they certainly had appeared very much surprised when informed of the punishment which they might expect, and had declared that if they had known such was the penalty
1222Sir C. Monck
ex post facto should vote for the postponement of the bill. He was unwilling that it should pass before the ensuing quarter sessions were over. The present law, if its application were looked at, would not be found cruel absurd, and unjust; and there were many laws which left the magistrates as much room for the exercise of their discretion, as could be claimed under that which was now made the subject of complaint. He had been surprised to hear it spoken of as an ex post factoMr. Huskisson
 did not wish to prevent, but to suspend inquiry, until the statement of the sheriff substitute was obtained. For this he should himself immediately apply.Mr. Finlay
ex parte knew nothing of the circumstances alluded to in the petition, but he thought some consideration was due to the situation of a sheriff, who was very often compelled to discharge a painful duty, and to act at the suggestion of others. If the facts should turn out to be as they were set forth in the petition, he was satisfied, from the respectable character of the sheriff substitute, that that officer must have acted upon information, which at the time, he believed to have been correct. As to the early hour when the arrest was made, all he should say was, that in the part of the town where the warrant was executed, it was often necessary, if late in the day, to provide the civil power with military aid, to enable them to execute their duty, in consequence of the resistance which the neighbourhood sometimes afforded on such occasions. As to the circumstances of the mode of confinement, he was sure they were grossly exaggerated, for there was no prison in which more comfortable apartments and general accommodation were afforded than in that at Glasgow. He hoped the House would not decide on hearing an ex parteMr. Finlay
 thought the petition entitled to serious consideration. It sat forth a number of gross grievances, and the commission of several acts of hardship, quite needless for the safe custody of a prisoner. The hon. member who had last spoken, seemed to think that his own flat negative would be sufficient to warrant the House to reject all inquiry. He condemned this hasty and intemperate proceeding on the part of magistrates, whereby the personal liberty of the subject, was endangered without cause.Mr. W. Smith
1219 rose to present a Petition, of the merits of which he knew nothing, neither did he know the person who made the complaint. It was transmitted to him by a professional gentleman in Glasgow, and he felt it his duty to present it to the House. The petitioner subscribed himself "John Weir," and was a muslin manufacturer at Glasgow. He stated, that on the morning of Sunday, the 23rd of February last, while in bed, six persons entered his House, found their way into his chamber, and demanded that he should immediately get up and accompany them to prison, on a charge of sedition or treason. After some delay and difficulty, they showed him the warrant on which he was apprehended, which merely contained his surname, and described his residence as in Black's-land, Green-street, whereas, in point of fact, he lived at Taylor's-land, Great Hamilton-street. He was, after being taken out of his bed, conveyed in custody to the common gaol, placed for a time in a confined cell at the felon's side of the prison, notwithstanding his full protestations of innocence, and not brought up for examination until the Wednesday following, when he was taken before the sheriff substitute, Mr. D. Hamilton, and examined on various points, all of which he met by a flat negative. He was asked, whether he knew and frequented the house of a man, named Hunter, or knew persons of the names of Boyle and Finlayson He neither knew the one nor the other; and was then told by the sheriff substitute, that his persevering in denial looked very suspicious. He was remanded to prison, and not discharged from thence until the Thursday following. He denied having ever interfered in politics. For this imprisonment, the particulars of which the petitioner, was ready to verify in any manner that the House desired, he claimed
1219Sir Samuel Romilly
 presented a Petition from the freeholders and others of the county of Cardigan, stating the great distress arising from causes some general, others local, particularly the imposition of the duties on coal and culm, in that county. The Petition expressed its confidence in receiving from the wisdom of parliament every possible mitigation, and prayed for relief from the duties on coal and culm.Mr. Howell
1272 said:—I can, from personal observation, assure the House, that a degree of distress prevails in the county of Cardigan, quite unparalleled, as I believe, even at this season of general difficulty and want, in any part of great Britain. The landholders of this county are quite without a market for their produce, whether it consist in cattle or in the articles of the dairy; their corn too, was in the last instance so ill-harvested, that a great part of it is unfit for sale, and hardly useable to the growers of it. I need hardly say, that under these circumstances the land-owners receive little or no part of their rents; this, however, is not the only or perhaps the greatest evil which now presses upon this county, for in the hilly parts of it, as well as of the county of Carmarthen, its neighbour, which lie at a distance from 30 to 35 miles from coal, and in which there is not a tree or a hedge, the inhabitants are so completely in want of fuel, that few, if any, of the cottagers have seen a spark of fire upon their own hearths for the last three or four months. They are indeed allowed to boil their pots and bake their bread on the fires of the neighbouring farmers; but for this privilege, the farmers who are nearly as much distressed as the cottagers, are obliged to make them pay. Peat is the only fuel Used by the poor of the county in question; this they cut and pile or stack in the summer months, and the farmers carry it to their cottages, when they have secured their own corn. Now, unfortunately the latter part of the corn-harvest season was accompanied by a series of heavy rain, which perfectly washed away and destroyed their heaps of peat, threw down the oats, which are the chief bread-corn of that county, before the ear was at all filled, and by producing early autumnal frosts, very much injured the potatoe crops, so that they are nearly without food and quite without firing of any kind; and I do verily believe, that unless some un-looked-to aid shall be given to them, a great part of the population of the county I have been describing, will, in the course of a few months, be under ground, typhus fever and dysentery already prevailing among them. I have stated these facts to the House with three views; in the first place, in the hope, faint as it may be, of the House interposing to save the people I have been talking of from famine; in the next to further, as far as in me lies,
1272Lord Robert Seymour
 took it to be clear, that the amendments might occasion considerable discussion in that House, and therefore he hoped the right hon. gentleman would not press the consideration of them before the holidays.Mr. Brougham
 said, that nothing could be more inconvenient than to delay the discussion on a bill of this nature. The preservation of the peace of the country rendered it absolutely necessary that no time should be lost in passing the bill into a law. He should certainly persevere in his motion, that the amendments be taken into consideration to-morrow.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1273 was certain, that no measure of greater importance could be brought under the consideration of the House, and therefore, full time should be allowed for the discussion. This bill went to annihilate the best liberties of the subject; and he trusted that it would never pass that House. Nothing could tend more effectually to extinguish all public liberty than to enact, that there should be a complete gagging of the people within a certain distance. Every day went to prove that this odious measure was altogether unnecessary; and, as the right hon. gentleman in the chair was labouring under severe indisposition, and, consequently, a late debate might be very injurious to him, it was highly important that the discussion should be deferred. To him there appeared no necessity whatever for this bill; and he could not but observe, that, highly as he might think of the integrity of hon.
1273Mr. Curwen
 differed in every point from his hon. colleague, and decidedly thought the only way to save the country was by such provisions as the present, He knew this bill was anxiously expected by every good, and loyal, and sober minded subject in the kingdom.Sir James Graham
 wished to ask the right hon. gentleman if he had any objection to the bill and its amendments being printed.Mr. Brougham
 said, the bill was already printed, but he would not object to the amendments being printed.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 asked, whether the right hon. gentleman did not think to-morrow too early to take the amendments into consideration? The House could not receive the printed copies till a late hour; and the right hon. gentleman would, perhaps, bring forward the discussion almost as soon as the House met.Mr. Brougham
 had no doubt that the amendments would be printed in time.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that after the clear statement of the Chair, he should merely move, "That a select committee be appointed to consider of a more convenient and expeditious method of preparing and distributing the printed votes of this House."The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1274 stated, that with the leave of the House, he should submit to its consideration the adoption, as he had last night noticed, of some more convenient and expeditious mode of publishing and delivering to the members the printed votes. Since the reign of Charles 2nd, when in the year 1680, the printing of its votes was first established, the duty of superintending their publication was vested in the Speaker for the time being. He, however, should not feel himself warranted in any deviation from the established usage, without having the previous sanction of the House. Since the accession of his present majesty, until the period of the Union, the business of that House had increased threefold. From the Union to the present time that increase was fivefold. From this consideration he had directed his attention to ascertain whether or not the publication of the votes and of the journals might not be effected in some more compressed form, so as to have their delivery take place at a much earlier period than was possible under the present system, and at a reduced expense in the charge of printing, which now amounted to some thousands. He was now satisfied that the
1274The Speaker
 presented the first report from the Select Committee on Finance. The report was read, and began by stating, that the subject was not new to the House as in 1812 and 1813, measures had been adopted respecting it. The committee had inquired first, what reductions it was possible to make; secondly, what compensation should be given to persons holding high and effective offices; and thirdly, what offices might be reduced as were considered in the nature of sinecures, and that all such offices should be as soon as possible abolished after the deaths of their respective holders. The committee recommended the abolition of the chief justice-ship in Eyre, north and south of the Trent, of the auditorship of the exchequer, of the clerk of the pells, the four tellerships of the exchequer, the lord warden of the Cinque Ports, the governor of the Isle of Wight, and the commissary general of musters. The committee considered such offices ought to be abolished. In presenting this report the committee stated that they had lost no time in considering the matters referred to them, and had made their report as early as possible; and had not omitted to attend to every measure of real and practical economy. The clerk was proceeding to read the remainder of the report, but Mr. Gilbert suggested that it was unnecessary to go farther. Enough had been read to satisfy the House of the spirit of the report, and of the feelings by which the committee had been actuated.Mr. Davies Gilbert
 stated, that as the next motion would be to take the amendments into consideration, he conceived the present was the time for him to declare his conviction, that it was wholly impossible to entertain that subject that night. The very circumstance of the chancellor of the exchequer having but last night agreed to have these amendments printed, was of itself, he thought, sufficient to persuade the House of the propriety of postponing the consideration of such an important measure. He had received indeed, in good time this morning, the various amendments, and had endeavoured as much as lay in his power to master the subject; but all in vain. He had found, besides two entirely new clauses, fifty-five amendments. The printed papers he had received gave only 14 references to the original bill, and of those 14 only one was correct. In some instances, indeed, he could find the matter referred to in the line above or the line below, but never could be certain which was really intended; in others it could not be found at all. The very first reference afforded a strong instance of the incorrectness that prevailed throughout. On these grounds, he thought it impossible that the House should so soon proceed to the discussion of the amendments.Lord Folkestone
 contended, that the general spirit of the amendments was perfectly intelligible; and that, as the noble lord had stated no objection to the spirit of the clauses, he did not think that any ground for delay had been pointed out.The Solicitor General
 replied, that the hon. and learned gentleman had yesterday asked for a postponement till after Easter, and on that account he had been provoked to hasten the measure more perhaps than he should otherwise have done. He admitted, under the circumstance of the errors in the references, that the House had not had sufficient time to consider the business. He therefore agreed that the discussion should be deferred till to-morrow.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, it was very hard, after all the pains hon. members had taken to be now told that there was a correct copy, but that they had been losing their time on one which was confessedly erroneous. This was a farther reason why the business should be deferred.Lord Folkestone
 stated, that early in the morning one of the printed papers had been brought to him, in which he had discovered several mistakes: these he had corrected, and had ordered the whole to be reprinted, which was all he could do.The Speaker
 reported from the select committee appointed to consider of a more convenient and expeditious method of preparing and distributing the printed votes of this House, that the committee having examined Mr. Ley and Mr. Rickman, the clerks assistant of the House, Mr. Whittam the clerk of the journals, and Mr. Bowyer Nichols, the printer of the votes, and compared the intended compressed form of the votes, with that at at present in use, had come to the following resolution: "That it will be advisable that the votes and proceedings of the House should be prepared, printed, and distributed according to the method proposed and described in the papers thereunto annexed." The report was ordered to be taken into consideration to-morrow; when it was agreed to by the House.Mr. Bathurst
1277 said, that when he last night begged one day's delay, in order that he might have time to understand the amendments, the argument he had insisted on was this—that unless the amendments were printed in time for members
1277Mr. Brougham
 conceived the bill unnecessary. As the law now stood, the commissioners had one jurisdiction, the creditors another, and the lord chancellor a third; and, therefore, although the creditors should sign the certificate, the commissioners might withhold their signatures, and, finally, the lord chancellor might refuse to put the great seal to it.Mr. Wrottesley
 brought in a bill to amend such part of the bankrupt laws as related to granting the bankrupts certificate. As the object of the bill went to introduce a new principle, he wished it to lie over a long time for consideration; and, therefore, should not propose the second reading till the 1st of May. The object was, to impose a duty on the commissioners to examine into the conduct of the bankrupt, so that the lord chancellor might be enabled to exercise a proper discretion in granting his certificate.Mr. Lockhart
 read the clause containing, "and he and they are hereby required to make, or cause to be made, proclamation, &c. commanding all persons there assembled to depart," and contended that its structure, according to the plain reading, was not that the people assembled should disperse, but the magistrates themselves. He read the remainder of the sentence, to prove the correctness of his observation. He had looked at it every way, and the only sense in which he could understand it was, "that it should be lawful for the justices to disperse themselves."Lord Folkestone
1282 stated, that there were fifty-five amendments of one sort or another, made by the lords in this bill. The House was in the dilemma of having agreed to some pans of these amendments, the after parts of which were now found to be nonsense. The right hon. gentleman opposite wished the House to agree to the parts which were correct, and to dissent from the others. They must proceed
1282Mr. Abercrombie
 considered this subject to be extremely worthy of attention from the House. The situation of the prisons in Dublin was miserable in the extreme, and certainly it could not be too much lamented that any human beings should be confined in them. In a room extremely small, ten persons of both sexes have been huddled together for one night. The right hon. gentleman opposite had certainly done himself infinite credit by the humanity he had shown in personally visiting the prisons, and examining the various cases. With a view to take some measures on this subject, he moved, "That a Return be laid before the House of the number of persons, confined at any one period in the Marshalsea prison of Dublin during the last twelve months."Mr. Bennet
1278 entirely coincided in the opinion delivered by the hon. gentleman as to the miserable state of the prisons in Ireland, and should be happy to find that any measures could be taken which would lead to the amelioration of the condition of the wretched inmates of these prisons. Dublin, without doubt, required a new
1278Mr. Peel
 moved the order of the day for taking into consideration the Lords Amendments to this bill.The Solicitor General
 wished to ask the Speaker whether the bill to which the House of Lords had thus made amendments was not a money bill, to such an extent, at least, as to induce the House, in maintenance of their ancient privileges, altogether to reject the measure thus amended?Lord Folkestone
, in consequence of what had fallen from the Chair, moved that the House should disagree with the Lords in this amendment; which motion was agreed to.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
in toto, said, that it was so essential to the best interests and privileges of the country, that the bill should not pass into a law, that he held it to be his indispensable duty to object by every means conformable to the customs and rules of the House, not only to the bill in toto,Lord Cochrane
1280 said, he felt it his duty to state at once the general motives which actuated his conduct on the present occasion. Why was any mention made of danger to the courts of justice in Westminster-hall from public meetings? Was there not equal danger to courts of justice in Guild-hall from public meetings there? The fact was, and he said it without hesitation, it was that House which was afraid. It was the ministers who felt that they deserved the reproach, and perhaps the indignation of the people. He told the right hon. gentleman, and he told his majesty's ministers generally, that the consciousness of their bad measures made them afraid to meet the people. They were afraid to meet the people in the place in which the people had been accustomed to meet for more than a thousand years. They were afraid to meet the people, because they knew the general indignation excited against them by their wicked and abominable measures, and by the determination which they had
1280Lord Cochrane
1284 observed, that this was an amendment of a most sweeping nature, as it left to the interpretation of a magistrate, not only whether a notice purported the alteration of the constitution, but whether it was "to such effect." They had lately heard of a requisition which had been sent to the mayor of Bristol to convene a meeting for the purpose of petitioning for parliamentary reform, the mayor had objected to such a meeting, because he conceived that under reform was meant rebellion, and he was supported in this construction by many reverend and learned persons: and there were few pulpits in Bristol, from which the Sunday before the meeting exhortations were not put forth that people should not attend the meeting, because rebellion was the object. They
1284Lord Folkestone
 said, he had objected to the clause as it at first stood, but it was now rendered doubly objectionable by the Lords amendments. The magistrates would now have the power of dissolving meetings not only in consequence of words which tend to the subversion of the government, but for words which have "such effect." It was surely not fit that parliament should give a discretionary power under words so extensive and vague to a single magistrate; for if such a clause were passed, he could hardly conceive that any political discussion could take place, or that any public meeting could be held.Mr. Ponsonby
 said, that if the right hon. gentleman had attended to the place where the amendment was introduced, he would have perceived, that it was not open to the objections he had made. The right hon. gentleman was inaccurate in the supposition, that the amendment alluded to words spoken at a public meeting, as it only referred to the words in a written or a printed notice, which of course would be the subject of more mature consideration than, words spoken at a meeting could be. Neither did the amendment refer to notices which shall tend to stir up the people to hatred or contempt of the government, &c.; but merely to notices purporting that any matter of law can be altered except by authority of parliament, to which the Lords had added, "or to such effect." The amendment had undoubtedly extended the sense of the clause, to prevent the possibility of notices impeaching the authority of parliament even though they might not do it in a direct manner.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1285 observed, that the loose-ness of the expression "to such effect"
1285Mr. Ponsonby
 wished to know whether the words government and constitution, in the clause before the House, were synonymous, or whether it was penal to bring his majesty's ministers into contempt? If that were the case, he thought the gentlemen opposite him would fall under the penalties of the law, for no persons laboured so incessantly and effectually to bring the government into contempt as they did. He assured the House, that he had that morning given his undivided attention to the amendments as they were printed, and he could not yet understand in what places they were introduced. He implored the House therefore, if it wished to stand well with the people—if it regarded the good opinion of the country — not to pass such a measure in so indecent a hurry, and enact laws in so objectionable a form. If this bill passed into an act, and if, enforcing it, blood should be spilt, or murder committed, a heavy responsibility would lie on the heads of ministers. They might be accused of being accessory to the crime which their vague, tyrannical, and, indefinite laws, hurried with such indecency through the House might occasion.Lord Cochrane
 objected to the amendment, as being capable of dangerous constructions. A meeting called for the purpose of petitioning for reform might by some magistrates be thought to have "the effect" of bringing the government and constitution into contempt, or of overturning the legal authorities.Mr. Abercrombie
 observed, if the printing of amendments was a modern practice, he believed the returning a bill of no great length, with no fewer than fifty-five amendments, was a practice never known before the present day. He did not believe that on the other side of the House there was at that moment one man who would not in his conscience be better pleased, if the House were to adopt the course proposed by his hon. and learned friend. Surely there was no pressing necessity for this law; and having already obtained the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, they might wait a little while, that the House might give the bill that attention which a sense of its own dignity required.Mr. Ponsonby
 thought the insertion of the words "to command," in place of the word "commanding," would obviate every objection.Mr. Canning
1287 said, that he concurred with his right hon. friend in thinking, that the amendment of the Lords was highly improper. If the word "purport" implied all which "such effect" could convey, the latter words were useless, and if useless, were pernicious. For if words were introduced to express notices which had been already sufficiently provided for, officious persons, or persons of heated imaginations, might be found, who might say, that something farther was meant than the first words could be construed to signify. He was friendly to the measure before the House. Though he was not present when it was first introduced, he
1287Mr. Plunkett
1302 said, the House must know, that public meetings were held in the Guildhall of London, and why was more danger to arise to Westminster-hall, than to a court of justice sitting in Guildhall? The courts of justice ought to be expunged from this clause, or Westminster-hall should be omitted. This clause stated that "it should not be lawful for any persons, &c. to meet on any day in which the two Houses, or either of them, should meet and sit, or shall be summoned, or adjourned, or prorogued to meet or sit." Now this, he conceived, must include the whole septennial parliament. [Cries of No, no! only the days of sitting.] However,
1302Lord Cochrane
1291 declared, that he could not see that such importance belonged to this proposition as the last speaker laboured to attach to it. If it were the object of the clause to prevent those inflammatory or insolent, or foolish discussions which generally prevailed at these Westminster meetings—if it were desired to put an end to these offensive, and often long and dull speeches, so pregnant, however, with libellous attacks upon the principles of the constitution and upon the character of that House, which were usually heard at those meetings, he could understand the motives of the opposition the House had heard:—if it were intended to interfere with the right of petition, or to prohibit the electors of Westminster from being entertained with those insulting experiments upon the patience of that House, there might be some alarm for the enjoyment of their favourite privileges; for a practice had prevailed at those meetings which was equally new in the history of this country, and inconsistent with the dignity of parliament, as that practice involved a system of detraction
1291The Hon. J. W. Ward
"Knight of the shire who represents them all."1298129712961295 rose and said:—"Knight of the shire who represents them all."1298129712961295Mr. Canning
1300 was no more disposed than some gentlemen on the other side to defend the whole of Mr. Wilkes's political conduct: but he would venture to say, what in his heart he believed to be true, that Mr. Wilkes did deserve from the people of England the support which he received during a great part of his life. Could those who now heard him forget that Mr. Wilkes had put an end to the practice of general warrants? Could they forget, that Mr. Wilkes, on other occasions, had been the intrepid and successful defender of the constitutional liberties of the country? As to what the right hon. gentleman had said respecting the judgment of the court of King's-bench, he believed, that the judgment for reversing the outlawry was never disapproved of by any of the lawyers of that day, or since; but lord Mansfield was just as right when he passed sentence on the conviction, as when he reversed the outlawry. He also believed, that the great body of the people thought the court of King's-bench had discharged their duty faithfully. The right hon. gentleman, in the course of his speech, bad made an allusion to jacobins, and demagogues, and incendiaries, and a great deal of other matter, that had nothing to do with the question. The simple point of inquiry was, had any danger really existed from these meetings? Sir, said Mr. Ponsonby, "I am surprised that none of us ever perceived the danger we were in. I am perfectly astonished that you, Sir, were never aware of this danger. I must conclude, however, that no danger whatever surrounded us, or you would have thought it your business to communicate our alarming situation to this House; and not have left it to the Lords to provide for our safety. What, are we so ignorant of the duties we owe to ourselves that the House of Lords must enact this clause for us, and send it down to us in a moment for our concurrence? I know not, Sir, why the House of Lords are to extend the shield over us for our safety, when we ourselves have not thought our safety in danger. I should be glad to hear any
1300Mr. Ponsonby
 had no difficulty in replying, that in the sense in which the House understood the term money bill, the bill then before them was not a money bill. In this bill, as well as in other bills not actually money bills, there might be clauses relating to money, to which the House could not permit the Lords to make any amendments. In fact, in the very first clause of the bill a penalty had been extended by the House of Lords, and therefore when the bill came under the consideration of the House, he should suggest to them the expediency of rejecting that amendment.The Speaker
l. observed, that it was his duty to call the attention of the House to an alteration made by the House of Lords in the bill, pr. 3. 1. 38. As the bill passed the House of Commons it was declared, that any person refusing to deliver notice to a justice of the peace, should forfeit 50l.The Speaker
 could not concur in the noble lord's reading. He thought the wording plain and designatory enough.Mr. Bathurst
 admitted, that where any alteration was not of a verbal, but substantive nature, it was not too much to call upon that side of the House for proper explanation. The greater part of the amendments were of an immaterial character: that before the House was for the purpose of adding the words "or magistrate," after "justice of the peace."Mr. Bathurst
12891288 said, it was not very regular to question any member on his opinion as to the operation of any clause. If the House understood that the word
12891288Mr. Bathurst
1286 said, the Lords had, by a previous amendment, substituted the word "express" for the word "purport." Some word of larger extent was therefore required to take in notices, which might not in an open, but in an indirect way, impeach the authority of parliament. It was to be observed, that it was much more likely that the notices which had for their object meetings to impeach the authority of parliament to enact laws, would be given in an implied, rather than an open manner. But was it to be supposed for a moment that a meeting for the purpose of petitioning respecting parliamentary reform, or even to draw up resolutions (though he did not see how such resolutions could be framed without involving a petition to the King, or one of the Houses of Parliament)
1286Mr. Bathurst
 declared, that when he stated the amendments to be generally immaterial, he did so at first view. On subsequent consideration, he found that some of them were liable to misconstruction; but these could be explained without waiting for a reprint of the bill.Mr. Bathurst
 said, the words introduced by the lords were nearly synonymous to those which before stood in the clause; but he saw no objection to their remaining, as they were words usually inserted in legal instruments.Mr. Wetherell
everyany said, the arguments against the Lords amendment remained unanswered. The insertion was useless; and if useless, pernicious; and it remained to be shown, that the word "purport," meant something less than "to such effect." A right hon. gentleman had put a case:—If a meeting were called for the purpose of discussing, whether the people should take the government into their own hands, would such a notice have been comprehended in the original words of the clause? Most certainly it would. It would be a proposition to alter, not everyanyMr. Brougham
 said, they were about to involve themselves in a situation of great difficulty, by risking an unintelligible measure, which ought, above all others, from its character, to be sent out in the most perfect state. The only satisfactory way of proceeding would be to have the clauses as amended, inserted in their proper places in the body of the bill, and the whole reprinted in a collected shape. With this view he would move as an amendment, "that the debate be adjourned till Monday next."Mr. Brougham
1281 could not help wishing, that when the clerk came to any amendments which were not merely verbal, some of his majesty's ministers would notify the fact, and briefly explain the nature of the particular amendment. It was very easy to say, after such a word insert such a word, and so on; but it was not equally easy to catch the meaning of the sentence so altered. Now his case was this, and he was sure it was the same with many other gentlemen. He had left home early this morning on professional business, and did not get the printed amendments until late in the day on his return; he was then
1281Mr. Brougham
1299 said, that the right hon. gentleman was mistaken in what he had
1299Mr. Brougham
1294bona fide12931292 said, he was anxious to submit a few plain considerations to the House, before the approbation so confidently anticipated of the majority was declared. It must be conceded to him, he imagined, that there ought to be some limits within which the orders of the House ought to be confined, with regard to the number and the nature of the amendments which the Lords might pass upon a bill originating in that House; it
1294bona fide12931292Mr. Brougham
1290 said, that he was compelled, though with regret, to give his most strenuous opposition to this clause. He did so, not for the purpose of delay, but that the whole country might see the dangers which threatened their rights. When this measure was introduced, necessity was fixed upon by all parties as the only ground on which it was defensible— those who opposed it denying the existence of the necessity, and those who supported it endeavouring to prove it. As necessity was its justification, all agreed that it should not go beyond it. Any abridgment of the just liberties the people was disclaimed by the defenders of the bill. No proper meeting for petitioning, it was said, would be prevented. All legal meetings would take place as formerly, without hindrance or obstruction. In the Commons House of Parliament, all attempts to interfere with the rights of the people were disclaimed, and the bill had passed without any exclusion of any body of men from their usual places of meeting. The right of petition was sacred, and ought to be protected with peculiar care by the House of Commons; to which, as holding the public purse, and watching over their interests, the people particularly applied for the redress of their grievances, or the maintenance of their rights. The office of the House of Commons, as representing the people, was to support their rights, both against the influence of the Crown and the privileges of the Peers. This clause, prohibiting the people of Westminster from meeting in their usual place to petition, was proposed by the other House of Parliament, and ought to be viewed with jealousy. The smallest attempt to infringe on the right of petitioning, should be met with the most decided opposition by the House of Commons, as aimed against itself. He felt the objection to the clause the more, as its alleged purpose was praise-worthy— the protection of parliament and the
1290Mr. Curwen
 declared his firm belief of the existence of a treasonable conspiracy against the government and the constitution, by mischievous leaders of the distressed people. No man could doubt this fact who had read the reports. The extent and nature of the danger were fully before us on unquestionable evidence; and every man who regarded the constitution ought to consent to strengthen the hands of government, that we may be defended against the projected mischiefs. He therefore approved of this bill, and those that had passed in connexion with it before he had a seat in that House, though not of the bill for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus; but he was of opinion, that much of the danger was imputable to the neglect of ministers, who, knowing of the deep distress that pervaded the country last Autumn, had not called parliament together at an earlier period.Sir W. Burroughs
 also objected to the amendment of the lords, as entirely unnecessary, and tending rather to impede than facilitate the execution of the law.Mr. W. Elliot
 said, that faulty and exceptionable as he considered the clause to be, he was yet inclined to regard it as necessary, when he considered the great abuses which had lately prevailed at popular assemblies, and especially at those meetings which were held in Palace-yard. He could wish, however, that it were made a temporary measure, as he did not see why they should presume there would be a perpetual exception of the people of Westminster from that general good order to which the people of England were expected to return. The other parts of the bill, relating to public meetings, were intended to be temporary, and if the present clause were limited in duration in a similar manner, he, for one, should assent to it. With that view he would beg leave to move, as an amendment, That the clause should continue in operation only until the 1st of July 1818.Mr. Lyttelton
 observed, that the printing of amendments was only a practice of modern terms. It was too much to say, that the consideration of the amendments ought to be postponed in order to adopt the novel course of printing the whole bill with the amendments of the Lords. It surely could not be difficult to alter the latter part of the clause, so as to make it grammatical.Mr. Sturges Bourne
1301 said, that having been
1301Mr. Wilberforce
l.1283 saw no necessity for hurrying on this measure with such undue haste, especially when he called to recollection what was now taking place in another part of the country, alleged to have been in a disturbed state, namely, Manchester, where persons were committed under the 5th Charles 2d, which prohibits meetings for the purpose of petition-
l.1283Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, that the Lords had not struck out the word "purport," but had added the word "express" to it, so that they had given it all the latitude which could fairly be contended for, even by those who approved of the clause. They had, however, added the words "to such effect," which in effect would give the power to magistrates to prevent meetings at all. There were very few populous places, where one justice of peace might not be found to disapprove of any meeting of the people. This was not merely his theory; there was an hon. and very respectable member of the House, who had said, on a former night, alluding to the conduct of the magistrates of Glasgow, that he thought no popular meetings at all should be held at this time. It was utterly useless to introduce the words "to such effect," after the word "purport," unless it were intended to countenance the supposition, on the part of magistrates, that no meeting should be held for any political purpose whatsoever.Sir J. Newport
 could not avoid observing, that the House was now separating after the royal assent had been given to the last of a series of coercive measures— measures which, it was true, were rendered necessary by the public distress, which had produced the immediate cause for them; but parliament was about to adjourn without having done any thing but enact those coercive measures. He hoped therefore, that before the House met again his majesty's ministers would have taken some step towards the alleviation of those distresses. He did expect much from the exertions of the committee that was sitting; and he hoped that, on the return of the House, his majesty's ministers, and the committee together, would be able to state that something had been done. He should not have objected to a longer adjournment if such a hope were held out; and even if it were not, the state of the Speaker's health would prevent him from opposing the motion.Mr. Ponsonby
 trusted that the right hon. gentleman would not be disappointed in his expectation as to the attention which the committee and his majesty's ministers would bestow on the subject before them; but if the right hon. gentleman laid in his claim for a sudden and complete removal of all the distress of the country, he claimed what it was beyond the reach of ministers to effect. In making such a demand on the limited powers of the committee, he feared the right hon, gentleman's speech could only tend to excite or increase the public discontent. He was certain there would be no want of attention on the part of the committee, and he hoped that some plan for practical relief, to a pertain extent, might be found; but he should be sorry to excite such exaggerated expectations as the right hon, gentleman had held out, of the removal of evils which it was beyond the power of human wisdom to prevent, or human legislation to remove.Mr. Canning
1304 expected no complete or
1304Mr. Ponsonby
 complained, that the right hon. gentleman had, in his usual way, not only imputed to his right hon. friend what he did not say, but motives by which he never could have been actuated. He put it to the House, whether a more temperate address had ever been made within those walls. His right hon. friend had only expressed a hope that something would be done to alleviate the distress of the people. For his part, he was not so sanguine as to the labours of the committee as his right hon. friend: for he well recollected, that the appointment of the committee was not conceded as a boon by ministers, but extorted in consequence of a notice given from an hon. friend of his, that such a committee would be moved for. He must say one word, too, on a disappointment of another kind, which he foresaw must occur. He was afraid, after all the pains that had been taken to prevent the people of Westminster from meeting, that if the House expected no meetings would take place within a mile, they would be grievously disappointed. For in the hurry in which the bill was passed, it had entirely escaped the notice of ministers, that there were two flaws that rendered the bill altogether nugatory. The first was that a meeting might be held in Palace-yard or elsewhere, for the purpose of addressing the Prince Regent or the Crown, for the removal of his majesty's ministers: because, by the clause in the bill, the meetings were prohibited from considering the alteration of any thing in church or state; but the removal of ministers was not any alteration in church or state. In the next place, the object of the bill was, to protect Parliament from the vicinity of the Westminster meetings, and they were not to be held within a mile of the door of Westminster-hall; but there was nothing to prevent a meeting in the hall itself; and one of the largest meetings he ever knew had been held within that building: so that all the citizens of Westminster might, for the consideration of any subject whatever, meet in Westminster-hall, within a pistol shot of Parliament.Mr. Brougham
1305 believed the courts of justice had the power of preventing meetings in Westminster-hall during the time they were employed there; at all events, Mr. Fox had on one occasion submitted to their authority on such an occasion.
1305Mr. Bathurst
 said, that the country did expect much from the labours of the committee. He hoped something would be done to excite the hopes of the people, and to retrieve the character of the House.Mr. Curwen
 was confident of the propriety of his own motives, and should treat the insinuations against them with perfect contempt, from whatever quarter they came.Mr. Ponsonby
 said, that the language of Mr. Canning was most dangerous, as being calculated to produce despondency, when the spirits of the people ought to be kept up. If ever there was a period where the people had exhibited the most patient endurance under every calamity, it was the present. If ever they deserved an alleviation of their sufferings, it was at this moment. Till that alleviation was effected the least ministers could do was to hold out an expectation that something would be effected by their efforts. Certain it was, that the distress of the nation would not be relieved by high-sounding words or coercive measures.Sir J. Newport
 regretted the painful circumstance which rendered it necessary for him to make the motion he was now to submit to the House. As that motion, however, would afford the House an opportunity of showing its respect for their valuable and excellent Speaker, he had no doubt it would be unanimously adopted. Of the important duties, both public and private, which the individual who at any time was called to fill that chair had to perform, and the qualifications necessary to a proper discharge of these, the House had no occasion to be reminded. Never had an individual performed those duties with more honour to himself, and more advantage to the House and to the public than the present Speaker had done. Those who had witnessed the period during which he had presided in the House, could not but admire and esteem him for the correct and accurate knowledge of parliamentary forms which he had uniformly shown, his indefatigable attention to the duties of his office, and his strict impartiality. Among his last attendances in that House, he had suggested a measure for regulating the printed votes, which had met their cordial approbation, and would be productive of great advantage. No doubt some interruption in the public business must be occasioned by this painful occurrence, but he was confident the House would see the propriety of an adjournment. The Speaker had stated his expectation of being able by Monday next to resume the chair. Happy indeed should he be, were this the case, but he was afraid this expectation was too sanguine, and was occasioned by the Speaker's anxiety no longer to postpone the public business. He thought, therefore, that the House could not discharge its duty better in the present instance, than by adjourning for two or three days longer than the period mentioned by the Speaker, because by this means the right hon. gentleman would have a further opportunity of reestablishing his health. He would therefore move, that the House at its rising do adjourn to Thursday se'nnight.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1307 heartily concurred in the motion. He fully agreed with the right hon. gentleman in his opinion respecting
1307Mr. Ponsonby
 concurred in every word which had been stated by the preceding speakers.Mr. Grattan
 presented a petition from the traders, manufacturers, and mechanics of Wolverhampton, praying for a diminution of the present enormous rate of taxation, and a reduction of the expenditure. It was signed by upwards of 5,000 individuals, and stated, that, in that district, many had been reduced to extreme poverty, and others had actually perished for want of food. Perhaps in no district had the pressure of public calamity been more severely felt; for to such a miserable situation were the petitioners reduced, that they actually implored the House to afford them the means of leaving the country, and finding employment in some more favourable realm, where they might find employment different from that suggested by a noble lord whom he did not now see in his place, viz. digging holes in the earth, and filling them up again.Mr. Bennet
 said, it appeared that those to whom advances were to be made, were by the proposed measure to become liable to exchequer process, with no indemnity but the poor-rates. He thought some farther delay was absolutely necessary before the House decided on so new and important a subject.Mr. Ponsonby
 intimated, that he was desirous of laying his statement as early as possible before the House; after which, some future day might be appointed for taking it into consideration.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that he never meant to say that it was the petition of any other persons than those who had signed it.Mr. Bennet
 rose to call the attention of the House to a motion he intended to submit to their consideration on Monday, and which at this moment was particularly interesting to the country. Aware that the mere notice of that motion, without any introductory remarks, might excite some alarm, he felt himself bound to give a general account of what he intended that day. On Monday next it was his intention to move that in a committee of the whole House, his majesty shall, by a resolution of the committee, be authorized to issue exchequer bills to a certain amount, for the relief of the public distress, on security being given. This motion was intended for the relief of the labouring poor. He should propose, that the money be allotted partly to corporations to enable them to employ labourers in finishing public works, and in this instance security would be required for the repayment of the money in a given time. Other parts of the money would be given to parishes and associated bodies, on securities being given on the parish rates, and also by individuals. It was not meant however, that such money should be employed in what might abstractly be called distress, for the great object his majesty's ministers had in view, was the finding of employment for the poor, which indeed was the most rational and satisfactory way of giving relief. In order to prevent any unnecessary alarm, the sum he meant to propose would be between one and two millions, and he thought this could be no inconvenience to the money market. The right hon. gentleman concluded by giving notice, that he should on Monday move for the House to resolve itself into a committee, to consider of enabling his majesty to authorize the issue of Exchequer Bills to an amount to be limited, for purposes of local and temporary relief, upon due security given; the Prince Regent's recommendation being signified.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he would not enter into the details of the plan, as they were not yet before the House; nor would he attempt to decide upon the effect it would produce on the money-market; but there was one point of view in which it deserved the most serious consideration, and that was, whether it was to be considered as a means of temporary relief, or a substitute for all those other measures which were rendered necessary for remedying the evils which had arisen out of the system under which we had been so long acting. He hoped this plan of the right hon. gentleman was not the only one. He did not deny the propriety of this step, but he would protest against any reliance on its sufficiency. The subject was now pressed upon us by necessity; we saw the calamity under which the country laboured we should not rest satisfied with palliatives, but should go at once to the root of the evil, and endeavour permanently to counteract its malignity, rather than apply temporary remedies.The Hon. W. Lamb
 observed, that one object of the plan was, to advance money to associations of individuals, and another to make these advances to public bodies. It was not intended that they should be made to single individuals for any purpose connected with the measure in question. The first object would embrace the support and encouragement of public works under certain limitations, and upon full security for the repayment of the money; the persons furnishing that security to take a counter-security upon the parochial funds.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1309 addressed the House to the following purport:—"In returning to the chair, I have to express to the House my most grateful acknowledgments for their indulgent consideration during my late indisposition. I beg leave to assure the House that I feel most deeply the favourable acceptance which my humble endeavours to discharge my duty in this chair have experienced from them. With respect to the arrear of business which has been occasioned by the late unfortunate interruption, I have to propose to
1309The Speaker
 rose to explain the seeming neglect complained of in the petition. On the 19th of December it was found, upon inquiry, that the address was mislaid. A letter was written on the 20th of December to the high sheriff, mentioning the circumstance, and asking for an authenticated copy, that it might be presented without delay. Having received no answer from the sheriff, the secretary of state wrote to a private gentleman of the county for an authenticated copy, which was soon received and laid before his royal highness. On the 20th of January the original was found, and was likewise laid before his royal highness. These circumstances should have been stated in the present petition, as they were known to the parties; and if they had been stated, would have removed the grounds of the complaint.Mr. Bathurst
 said, he was informed by letters from some respectable gentlemen near that district, that the petition did not contain the sentiments of the inhabitants of that town, but had been signed by persons in no respect connected with it, and that there was actually a person who was employed to sign it for those who could not write.Mr. E. Littleton
 said, he had accurately understood the right hon. gentleman. The persons to whom any advance of the public money should be made, would clearly render themselves liable to an extent whilst the parish funds might or might not be solvent.Mr. Brougham
1313 professed himself desirous to abstain from all discussion of the measure. He wished, however, that the chancellor of the exchequer would take one thing into consideration before he attempted to carry it through the House. As far as he understood him, his object was to grant an issue of exchequer bills to corporations or associations for the relief of the poor on their securities, recommending them to employ the poor in public works. With respect to bodies corporate he would say nothing, nor would he give any opinion about the propriety of the advance to them. He, however, entreated the chancellor of the exchequer to consider what would be the effect of placing such means of relief, at the disposal of associations of private gentlemen, at the same time requiring from them such securities as may be necessary to protect the public interest. The measure would place those gentlemen in the most delicate and embarrassing situation with regard to their poorer neighbours. As soon as any of the suffering poor began to reflect on their relation to the more wealthy, and saw that they procured no relief from them. Would they not say, "government has placed the means of assistance within your reach, and we are starving, because you are so hardhearted as to refuse your securities for advances that might relieve us, without injury to yourselves?" If they came forward on this remonstrance, they would render them-
1313Mr. Brougham
 acquitted the noble lord at the head of the home department of any neglect in the affair.Mr. Tremayne
 apprehended, that very great difficulties would present themselves in carrying the proposed measure into effect. In the district with which he was best acquainted, the security of the poor-rates would be no security at all. He thought Monday was too early a day for entering upon the discussion of this question, as it was important to make various inquiries previously in many parts of the country.Mr. Lyttelton
1311 presented a Petition from certain inhabitants of the city of Limerick, complaining that they were under the hardship of being obliged to register their freeholds, or be deprived of the privilege of voting at elections of members to that House. It was notorious that the magistrates in that city were completely in the interest of one of the parties, and that even a half hour was refused to those who came to register their freeholds, except they were the friends of that individual whose claims to be elected were sanctioned by the magistracy. The magistrates had no power by law to enforce this registry, but they nevertheless did it, and therefore electors had no alternative but
1311Sir J. Newport
1310 presented a petition from Cornwall, complaining of the bills lately passed, and of the conduct of the noble secretary of state for the home department, in neglecting to present in due time, and in mislaying, an address of the county to the Prince Regent, voted in
1310Sir W. Lemon
l.1315 rose to propose resolutions for raising a supply to his majesty by way of lottery. As the subject of the lottery had been so lately discussed, he thought it superfluous to
l.1315The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1316l.l., professed his intention to abstain from any detailed observations on the principle of the provisions of this measure, which he judged entirely unnecessary, considering the ample discussion which the subject had lately received. He could not let the opportunity slip, however, without entering into some general animadversion, and proposing certain clauses to qualify a measure, the principle of which, though obnoxious, he had no hopes of being able to explode. He would be very brief. In his late remarks he had alluded to the emoluments of those connected with the Irish lottery, who had lost their situations by its abolition. He wished to do justice to those individuals. He held in his hand a letter from a Mr. Thomson, who belonged to the Irish lottery-office, stating his former emoluments, his length of service, and his present remuneration. He stated, that he had been engaged on this establishment for 26 years, that before its abolition it brought him upwards of 4001316l.l.,The Hon. Mr. Lyttelton
1328d.d.1327d.s.l.l. assured the House that he should willingly assent to any proposition, the effect of which might be to lay the amplest information on this important subject before the House, if he thought the inquiry would be attended with no practical inconvenience to the public interest; but the hon. gentleman had himself stated, at the outset of his speech, his belief of the fact, that the agitation of this question had already caused a deficiency in the receipt of the revenue amounting to no less than 80,0001328d.d.1327d.s.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that since he had been at the treasury board no memorial had been received for a repeal of this tax; and though petitions had been presented praying for an inquiry into these duties, there had not been any for its total repeal.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1350§l.,l. was of opinion, that a substitute should be named before they could enter upon so serious a consideration as the abolition of a revenue of 1,500,0001350§l.,l.Mr. Rose
1342l.l.l.13411340l.13391338s.1337l.l.13361335d.s.1334§13331332133113301329;—Hard indeed must the right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer be pressed for arguments to defend this odious and oppressive tax, when he can be induced to offer to the House a representation from a few interested individuals in favour of the continuance of this their monopoly. I verily believe, were the question fairly gone into, there would not be found a single advocate for the salt-tax, with the exception of such as profited by it. These no arguments will convince— no sufferings—no advantage to the public, incite to the relinquishment of their monopoly. Few questions of more vital importance, or more calculated to excite feeling or interest in the public mind, could have been brought before this House. The comforts of a large portion of the community, as well as the future prosperity of the
1342l.l.l.13411340l.13391338s.1337l.l.13361335d.s.1334§13331332133113301329Mr. Speaker
 said, the substance of the petitions, or the petitions themselves, might be printed and delivered in the course of two or three days, upon a special motion for that purpose, although their subject only could appear in the votes of the following morning.The Speaker
1326 seconded the motion, declaring that the experience which he had had of them in Cheshire convinced him that no laws stood more in need of revision. If, without any material injury to the revenue, the salt duties could be totally abolished, it would be the best policy that the country could pursue, and would essentially contribute to the welfare of the lower classes of the community. On this subject it appeared to him that there could be but one opinion. The more the subject was investigated, the more it would appear that those duties originated in a blind and narrow-minded policy. Had they never been imposed, an invaluable mass of prosperity might have been created; compared with which, the sum derived from them to the revenue was contemptible. He was aware of the difficulty of making up that deficiency in the revenue which their repeal would occasion. He admitted that he did not think they could at present be wholly repealed. But the subject ought to be fairly investigated by a committee, to ascertain what could
1326Mr. Davenport
l.l.d.d.1344l.1343d. gave credit to the hon. mover for the fairness of his motives in bringing forward the present question; and he hoped that he would also give him (Mr. R.) credit for impartiality in the view which he should take of the subject. He had in fact come to the question without having any decided opinion on it. He had been very much struck at first with the statements in the pamphlet of Mr. Parkes, but the more he looked at the subject, and at the statements in that pamphlet, the more was he convinced of the exaggerated views of advantage expected from an abolition of the salt duty. He did not mean to contend that the tax was good in itself, but unless it could be shown that the repeal had some extensive advantages, the House ought to pause before they agreed to the repeal of a tax making so considerable a part of our revenue, without being satisfied that a substitute could be found for it. The hon. gentleman by whom the motion for a committee was made, had declined submitting any commutation to the House; but the hon. gentleman, who spoke last, departing from the example of wisdom which he commended, had suggested a commutation. But he was very much mistaken, indeed, if this would not be considered a much more grievous burthen than the tax. The views which that hon. gentleman had taken of the benefits of the repeal, were exaggerated to the greatest extent—it would give immediate life and activity to the industry of the country—it would vivify manufactures—it would provide for all unemployed seamen—it would give a livelihood, and even fortunes to those employed in the fisheries—it would set agriculture up ! These were the magnificent advantages which they were taught to expect. With regard to the fisheries, he did not believe that the absence of employment arose out of the duty on salt. Fish was at this moment sold at the lowest price at which it could be sold by the persons who caught it, at 2l.l.d.d.1344l.1343d.Mr. F. Robinson
 explained, that he never meant to discourage the use of salt as manure; all he meant to infer was, that the present price could not prevent its use; as, if it really were an object, it was still cheaper than any other article that could be used for the purpose.Mr. Robinson
—9Majority against the motion
—9Majority against the motion79Noes
79Noes70Ayes
70Ayes
—9Majority against the motion
—9Majority against the motion79Noes
79Noes70Ayes
70Ayes1352, in reply, animadverted Strongly upon the conduct of the board of trade, with regard to the measure under consideration. For it appeared, that the application of half a dozen interested persons to that board, had more weight with his majesty's ministers, and especially with the right hon. gentleman who presided at that board, than the general voice of the country, or the report of a committee of that House. But if the private application of interested individuals was thus to be preferred to the public interest, nay, to the consistency of ministers themselves, where were the people to look for redress, or for the candid consideration of their case? He trusted, however, that that House would not sanction such a principle, or produce the impression to which it was but too likely to lead; and, therefore, he called upon the House to accede to the committee, which he had felt it his duty to move. It was to be recollected, that he did not propose the repeal of the tax under discussion; that, on the contrary, lie admitted the question to be doubtful, and therefore he suggested the propriety of referring it to the consideration of a select committee, But the right hon. the treasurer of the navy had distinctly stated, that it was desirable to repeal the tax altogether, if a convenient substitute for it could be devised. Yet, strange to tell, notwithstanding this declaration, the right hon. gentleman's course of argument was quite in favour of the tax, and he had declared his intention to vote against a motion, which merely proposed to consider the propriety of repealing this tax! As to the argument of the chancellor of the exchequer upon the re-enactment of the salt tax in 1732, notwithstanding its repeal about three years before, the right hon. gentleman should consider the material difference of information between that period and the present, as well with respect to chymical as to other points. The right hon. gentleman, stated that the revenue would suffer greatly if this tax was abandoned; and intimated that those who proposed its repeal were bound to find a substitute. He, however,
—9Majority against the motion
—9Majority against the motion79Noes
79Noes70Ayes
70Ayes
—9Majority against the motion
—9Majority against the motion79Noes
79Noes70Ayes
70Ayes1352Mr. Calcraft
1325132413231322l.13211320d.s.13191318l.1317** rose to bring forward his motion respecting the Salt Duties, of which he had given repeated notices, but the consideration of which a variety of untoward circumstances had hitherto conspired to delay. He was happy to say, that it did not appear to him to be necessary to trouble the House at any great length on the present occasion; for, as far as he could collect the general sentiment from a conversation with a number of persons both within and without doors, there seemed but little difference of opinion on the principle of his proposition. All seemed to concur in the propriety of taking into consideration the great and grievous duties on salt, and of endeavouring to discover some remedy for the inconveniencies and evils which arose from them. Even those who would
1325132413231322l.13211320d.s.13191318l.1317**Mr. Calcraft
 rose and said: —Mr. Curwen
 said, he should cheerfully give his vote in favour of the motion. He could state to the House, that all the persons engaged in fisheries in the West of England, considered the bill now before the House as seriously detrimental to them, and that it would have the effect of driving out of the fisheries a great number of persons at present engaged in them. An hon. member opposite had recommended a rigorous prohibition of foreign salt, but he could not help desiring gentlemen not to make up their minds on this subject, till it should be canvassed in the committee, for it was the opinion of persons engaged in the fisheries that foreign salt was the best for them, and that rock salt would be of no use whatever. If the House should persist in this system of excluding all foreign commodities, they would injure very severely the most of our manufactures.Mr. Tremayne
1314 presented a petition from the town of Dudley, against the circulation of local
1314Mr. Grenfell
1346s.s.1345 said, he could not help taking up the argument where the right hon. gentleman who had preceded him had left it. The right hon. gentleman had said it became the House to pause and consider before it consented to repeal the tax. Now, for the sake of this consideration, which the right hon. gentleman recommended, he should vote for a committee, where the real influence of the tax on manufactures and commerce might be ascertained, not from vague and contradictory assertions, but from accurate and detailed examinations. There was one argument in favour of the repeal of
1346s.s.1345Mr. W. Smith
 denied that the observation of the right hon. gentleman was correct, that no petitions had been presented from persons concerned in the fisheries for the repeal of this duty. He had presented two that day. He hoped, when the bill before the House was referred to the committee, that some additional exempting clauses would be added, to prevent the ill consequences which were anticipated by the parties for whose benefit it was intended.Sir C. Pole
 did not see that the inconvenience mentioned by his hon. friend would result from the late improvement in printing the votes of the House. The petitions could not be printed so as to be distributed ou the following morning; but if required, they might be printed in two or three days.Sir M. W. Ridley
1349in limine,1348 said, that in rising to deliver his sentiments on the present occasion, he was at least free from the imputation of interested motives, for he was not only uninterested in a personal point of view in the issue of this question, but he had no connexion with any party who was so engaged. The motion merely called for a committee, and it was quite plain that if they meant to discuss the subject they had no other course. How else but by an examination before a committee could they understand the details of a question affecting so many branches of the people's industry? And as to the reason which had induced the chancellor of the exchequer to refuse this committee, viz, the probability that some diminution would take place in the receipt of the duties, that would be an objection to any inquiry whatever on the subject of the operation of any tax. Their course of proceeding was different on the question respecting the leather trade, for there they went into the committee, obtained valuable information, and redressed some of the then existing abuses. All that was at present called for was, the sort of inquiry to which parliament always resorted on similar occasions, and on which they had already made a report, which on a former occasion met with the sanction of the right hon. gentleman (the chancellor of the exchequer), who now, it appeared, turned round and took from his pocket a memorial from an interested party, and at once became a convert to its reasoning. Now, what was that reasoning? Why it was, in plain terms, this, "We (the memorialists) say, that if you repeal these duties, great numbers will set up in the same trade with us, our monopoly will be injured, and we pray of you to interpose and secure it to us." Such was the document, and such its argument.—Here he could not but reprobate this practice of the members of go-
1349in limine,1348Sir John Newport
1351 said, the tax on salt pressed on the lowest cottager. The high price of salt prevented the poor from resorting to one of the best means of husbanding their food. It was to be recollected too, that an addition of 15 or 20 shillings on the pig which he killed at the end of the year, was a most serious tax on a labourer. The vexatiousness of the tax was not less than its oppressiveness; for even in the bill which was to be brought in to relieve certain persons from its operation, many of the clauses were obnoxious to the very persons whom they were intended to relieve, on account of their restrictions and prohibitions. Wishing for the abolition of the tax, he was anxious to go into the committee, not with a view of putting an end to the salt duties in the present year, but in order to lay a foundation for doing it away at some future period. If the proposed inquiry were gone into, he had no doubt a fit substitute for the tax in question might he sound, and he was therefore decidedly in favour of the motion, as he wished such steps to be taken as should indicate a desire to put an
1351Sir T. Acland
1347bonus lamented the thin attendance of members on the discussion of a question so important to so large a part of the community. It was with great pleasure he should support the motion for a committee, which would, he hoped, lead to the final repeal of a duty so oppressive to the labouring classes. It had been said that by a bill which the chancellor of the exchequer was to bring in, it was intended to give a great 1347bonusLord Ebrington
 said, that if the measure were one of a larger extent—if it went to alter the general principle, that all the servants of the Crown should hold their offices from the grant of the monarch immediately on the throne, it would be a proposition new in its nature, and one which would require considerable deliberation. The bill, however, merely went in the event of the demise of the Crown, and the accession of the illustrious personage who now held the office of Regent, to continue all the present offices, a great proportion of which had been granted under the regency, and thus to prevent considerable inconvenience and delay. He had no objection whatever to the bill applying as it did to a special case, and leaving untouched the general principle. He only hoped, that the right hon. gentleman would allow an interval of eight or ten days between the second reading and the committee merely to give an opportunity for the bill to be looked into with reference to its particular wording.Lord Castlereagh
 was happy that the noble lord regarded the measure in the same light in which it was introduced, and agreed that much convenience might, whilst no ill consequences could, arise from it.Mr. Ponsonby
87 congratulated the House and the body of the Catholics, that this long contested question was likely to be met, both on the part of the catholic body, and the members of his majesty's government, with that spirit of conciliation, which he hoped was a favourable omen of the success of the question. He was, as well as the catholics themselves", aware of the fair, candid, and honourable manner in which the noble lord opposite (Castlereagh), had expressed himself both in that House and elsewhere, on the subject of the catholic cause, as well as two more worthy individuals, his colleagues in office. Surely it was not too much then to expect, that the cause at last would be triumphant. For eleven years he had anxiously watched the progress of the catholic claims, a cause in which he was doubly interested, first as as an Irishman, and secondly as a Briton. They had succeeded each year in removing one source or other of objection to their character or their claims. They asked not now emancipation, they merely demanded a fair and dispassionate examination of their claims in a committee. The catholic he was happy to find, was disposed to lay aside all party spirit, and anxious to leave no stone
87General Matthew
 said, he held in his hands a petition from the inhabitants of Dunfermline and its vicinity, praying for parliamentary reform. The petition was couched in most respectful terms, and, like all the others which he had presented from that part of the country, it stated that the petitioners were suffering severely under a depression of trade, occasioned by the grievous burthens to which they were subject. With respect to Spencean Societies, if they existed at all, in this very large and populous town, they had never been heard of, till they were brought forward in the debates of parliament. They prayed for a full, fair and free representation of the House of Commons, totally independent of the influence of the Crown. They likewise particularly called the attention of the House to the state of the representation of Scotland, which they considered as no representation at all.Sir R. Fergusson
s16 said, that during many years he had resided in the neighbourhood of Dunfermline, and then those persons who were now petitioning, maintained themselves by the manufactures which were established in that part of the country; but now, in common with so many other manufactures in this country, they had fallen into decay, in consequence of the burthen of taxation, till at last the wages of the workmen were altogether inadequate to their support. Unless a diminution of taxation should take place, it was impossible that the people could be relieved, and so long as places and pensions should be the reward of subserviency, so long would the burthens continue, and those persons remain unrelieved. It was necessary, therefore, that parliamentary reform should take place—that that House should be purged—that its members should act for the benefit of the country at large, and not with a view merely to the circumstances of their own families, or the rewards which might be given to them. All assistance by way of issue of exchequer bills, whether to the extent of two millions or fifty millions, would be found unavailing—all came out of the pockets of the people. He had lately been down into the county of Kent, where he could not help being struck with seeing the mansions of the country gentlemen almost all deserted, and to be let or sold, the families having left the country. The only relief which the chancellor of the exchequer could grant, was a dimi-
s16Lord Cochrane
 observed, that when he brought forward the motion, which it was his intention to submit to the House on this subject, it would be then seen whether there was any thing derogatory to national honour in the reduction of the interest of the national debt.Lord Cochrane
, jun. said, he had the honour of being a member of the Society of Academics, and was greatly astonished when he heard of the very unwarrantable exercise of authority by which a licence had been refused to so respectable and intelligent a body.Mr. C. Grant
32***31llllllllll302928ll rose and said, that before he proceeded to explain the purpose of the proposition which he had to submit to the committee, he should read, the two resolutions in which that proposition was comprised. The first resolution was,—"That it is the opinion of this committee, that his majesty be enabled to direct an issue of exchequer bills to an amount not exceeding 500,00032***31llllllllll302928llThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 rose, he said, not to make any captious objection to the right hon. gentleman's plan, which he did not yet correctly understand, but to observe that the right hon. gentleman had not stated the mode in which the repayment of the proposed loans was to be secured. This was certainly an omission which it was desirable to supply. The omission was, perhaps, casual, but it was one of such importance, that he hoped the right hon. gentleman would favour the House with some explanation as to the manner in which, and the time when it was proposed that these advances should be repaid.Mr. Ponsonby
33 stated, in reply, that it was his intention to leave the details as to the execution of his plan to be considered and adjusted by the House. He had, however, no objection to present an outline of his views with respect to the repayment alluded to by the right hon. gentleman. In the first place, he proposed that the exchequer bills to be issued should be payable in three years, that is, in 1820; and that security should be taken for the repayment of the several advances by instalments, so that the whole should be re-paid to the commissioners by the time when the exchequer bills became payable by the state. But that, in case it should be expedient for the completion of public works to allow a farther time, the commissioners should be empowered to extend it for six or seven years from the period of making the loan. It was also proposed that the several loans should bear an interest of five per cent, while the exchequer bills should be issued at their present rate of 3¼ per cent, and the difference would of course be for the advantage of the public. The securities to be taken for the proposed advances would be naturally had from those persons who were interested in the manufactures or public works to which those advances would be made, probably from the proprietors, and it would be for the commissioners to look to the adequacy of those securities. The security ought, of course, to be equally satisfactory as that required by individuals lending money, and this would operate to prevent the commissioners from making any injudicious advances. The commissioners it was to be presumed would not advance loans unless they were fully convinced of the
33The Chancellor of the Exchequer
36ll replied, that the intention was, to issue exchequer bills, as in former cases, at 10036llThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that in parishes in which there were no poor-rates, personal security would be substituted.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
38l37 thought the money should be given to the people as a repayment for what had been taken from them, and that no securities should be required.
38l37Lord Cochrane
 said, he was not sure he understood the measure now proposed by the right hon. gentleman; indeed, he was rather inclined to think that he did not understand it. He was willing to suppose that it had been brought forward with the best intentions; but he was certain, if it were intended to produce good, it should be quickly put in operation. He therefore had no desire to impede the progress of the measure, but, on the contrary, felt; sincerely desirous of promoting it. He had heard enough, however, to convince him, that the House could not enter into the consideration of the whole question, till the bill was regularly before them. The right hon. gentleman would do well, therefore, to bring in the bill as soon as possible. At the same time, he wished distinctly to state, that he should not consider himself bound, in consequence of thus assenting to all the previous steps, to approve of the measure itself, when he had fully considered it.Mr. Ponsonby
 observed, that nothing could be more fair or candid than the proposition of the hon. member; and he should be far from considering any individual pledged to approve of the measure hereafter, merely on account of his voting for the resolutions. Nothing was more improper than to enter into the details of the measure in the present stage. He therefore reserved several explanations he had to give till the proper opportunity for offering them. As to the remarks made by a noble lord, he thought them altogether unworthy of examination; or reply.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, if the plan were even more objectionable than it appeared at the first view, yet there was something so pleasing to the mind in the idea of providing relief for the present distresses of the poor, that he could not for a moment bring himself to oppose the consideration of any scheme which seemed likely to attain that object.Mr. Ponsonby
 said, that where persons failed in their repayment of the loan, and process was issued against them in consequence, a provision would be made in the bill, to prevent the Crown from having a priority over the other creditors. As to the suggestion, that the resolution should be divided into two parts, he believed so many public works would be found for the employment of the poor, as to render such a division unnecessary. He wished to hear every objection that could be fairly stated to the measure, and would feel obliged by any corrections upon the plan as proposed by him.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, there was no intention to exact as a condition, from the parishes which might apply for aid, that they should use the money in providing employment for their poor. At the same time, it would be highly desirable, that the relief granted should be, as much as possible, in the shape of work, leaving it to the parish to select the particular description of employment. Generally speaking, he apprehended that public works, such as roads, buildings, bridges, canals, &c. would be the kind of occupation selected, as requiring merely labour, and not any particular kind of skill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
43 jun. said, the measure must first present itself to the House as one intended for the relief of certain individuals. Great numbers of persons being thrown out of employment, were in danger of starving—to them it was intended to afford succour; and the question next was, how that succour should be bestowed? Undoubtedly, it was much better to give it on the score of labour, than as a gratuity; and, therefore, he highly approved of his right hon. friend's plan. It was not intended, that the money advanced should be laid out in the establishment of manufactories. It would be most impolitic to do that. Such a proceeding would only have the effect of forcing manufactories into the market when there was no sale for them. The same observation, he conceived, applied to agriculture. By pursuing the plan of his right hon. friend, they would support the morals of the
43Mr. C. Grant
l recommended that a portion of these funds should be applied to the erection of parochial school houses.lMr. Buttertvorth
 replied, that personal securities must be given to the commissioners, as well in the case of parishes as of public works. With respect to the second question, he should merely observe, that on other occasions of a similar kind, gentlemen had been found who devoted their services to the public gratuitously; and it was to be hoped that no difficulty would be experienced in discovering individuals equally disinterested in the present instance.The Chancellor of the Excheqaer
 wished to know what was the mode of security to be adopted in Scotland, where there were no poor-rates?Lord A. Hamilton
 expressed, generally, his approbation of the plan.Mr. Hall
20 knew nothing of the case which had been brought before the House
20Mr. Bathurst
 said, that no man was more anxiously disposed than himself to concede every civic right and privilege under the constitution, to the Roman catholics, whenever that concession could be made with safety to the state. He had all his lifetime been in the closest and most cordial habits of intimacy with a great many persons of that community, and he could bear testimony to their public and private worth. But in looking at the great question of Catholic Emancipation, he must abstract it from the narrow consideration of personal character. He would admit, with the most sanguine advocates of the catholics, their loyalty and peaceable demeanour in all ranks of society; but his objections were not founded on the personal characters of the men—they went to the whole system itself. He would now only say, that if it was ever his fate to hear this question discussed in the British parliament, he would previously expect to have the question of securities fully considered and decided. If the general debate were entertained at all, it ought certainly be subsequent to the decision on that point. He had no hesitation to say, as the painful result of his conviction, that the concessions claimed by the Roman catholics would, if granted, effect nothing short of an incipient revolution in the protestant church of Ireland. Such being his painful conviction, he was bound to mention it. The hon. baronet had thought proper to refer to the question of securities, and the manner in which they originated. He begged to state the mode in which he understood that matter had been started. Here the hon. gentleman stated the origin of securities in the year 1799, and traced the temper in which they had been urged. He concluded by saying, that the catholics of Ireland had a right to concede that which was uniformly granted in every other country in Europe.Mr. Webber
35 declared his inability to comprehend the nature of the security alluded to by the chancellor of the exchequer. Did the right hon. gentleman mean to confine the proposed loans to public works actually begun? ["No, from the treasury bench, "they are to extend to works to be begun."] As these loans were to be granted for the construction of public roads, how, he would ask, were the parochial rates to be relieved by pledging these rates to the persons who should become security for the repayment of the loans? Such a plan would, in his opinion, rather tend to augment the rates and to aggravate the evil so loudly complained of. Then as to manufactures, it was a delusion, to conceive that this plan would afford any relief; for to his knowledge the manufacturing towns did not want capital
35Mr. Philips
21 said, that as parliament had intrusted a discretionary power to the magistrates, without appeal, it was no longer in the power of the government to control it. But it would become the House to consider how cautious such an occurrence should make it, in parting out of its own hands with such a power. If that power had been vested in some of the gentlemen opposite, or the hon. member who had presented the petition, in such hands such powers might perhaps have been safely entrusted. But the House, on the first alarm of some society, with an uncouth name, which hardly any one had heard, and to the exact nature or ex-
21Mr. Brougham
252423lldsdsdsssds22 said, it had often been his painful duty to lay before the House the complaints of large portions of his majesty's subjects, but he never performed this duty with feelings so distressing as at that moment, both because the evil was so much more extensive in its pressure than at any former period, and because the prospect of relief, compared with the urgency of the case, was faint and unsatisfactory. The Petition which he had to present, was signed by nearly the whole of the labouring population of the great town of Birmingham. To prepare this petition no public meeting had been held, not even any public notice had been given that the petition lay for signatures, but three copies having been laid in different parts of the town, and the fact having become known, in less than forty-eight hours 11,000 names were affixed. At each of the places where the petition was placed, several persons of respectability attended
252423lldsdsdsssds22Mr. Brougham
4746slll45l44 said, he agreed with what had fallen from his right hon. friend below him, that it would be most painful to his feelings if he should find himself compelled to interpose any obstacles in the way of the present measure. It would be arrogance in him, however, imperfectly as he yet understood its nature, to argue upon its general character; and he could only express a hope that it might be found practicable, and calculated to overcome many of the objections to which it at first appeared liable. At the same time he wished to take that opportunity of expressing one or two doubts that prevailed in his own mind. In the first place, as to the manner in which the money was to be employed. It was evident, that it would be chiefly, if not entirely, applied to the promotion of public works. As to the idea of parish officers becoming manufacturers, it was so prepostrous, that its absurdity hardly
4746slll45l44Mr. Brougham
ll expressed a wish to know in what way it was intended to advance the proposed loans, whether in specie or in bank-notes—whether the exchequer bills were to be put into the hands of the bank, there to remain with interest accumulating upon them for three years, or lent at once to the parties from whom they required securities to be taken? He suggested, that it would be very practicable to issue exchequer bills of 100llMr. Grenfell
 rose to make an observation on a suggestion now made by the noble lord, for the second or third time, which was nothing less than a deliberate proposal for a breach of public faith with the public creditor—a proposition which he trusted, not even the authority of the noble lord would be sufficient to impress on the good sense and good principles of the great mass of the British people. He could not conceive a proposition more destructive in its principle, or more contrary to every true principle of national faith, than that propounded by the noble lord.Mr. Grenfell
41 observed, that one part of the resolution went to give employment to the poor, on public works; the other was intended to relieve the poor in parishes. Now, in very many parishes there were no public works. How, then, were the poor to be employed? If the overseers, in the manufacturing districts, became manufacturers (their capital being
41Mr. Babington
 was anxious that it should go forth to the world, that the vote of exchequer bills now proposed was not to give relief in the vulgar acceptation of the phrase, but to employ the poor. He wished this to be understood, as otherwise sensations might be excited in the people from their being told that a large sum of money had been voted for their relief that would prove but delusive and vain. He thought there would be some difficulty in getting that security given which it was intended to demand. Without this plan of the right hon. gentleman, there was no difficulty in getting capital advanced, where good security was offered. The only difficulty was how to employ capital to advantage. The plan for lending money to parishes he thought would be attended with some inconveniences; but the regulations under which the chancellor of the exchequer had proposed it should be advanced, were, in his opinion, extremely wise, and obviated many of the objections which otherwise might have been urged against the measure. Some guard, he thought, ought to be obtained, to prevent land from being pledged as parish security by the occupier, to the prejudice of the owner. Great burthens might fall on landlords, if occupiers made mortgages without their landlords consent.Mr. Lamb
42 should not now inquire what might be the details of the bill, or what the objections that might be urged, but there were one or two points upon which he wished to say a few words. The right hon. gentleman, in his opinion, had assumed certain facts which he did not think were tenable. First, that the present distress was greatly owing to the want of capital. He did not conceive that to be the case; and indeed, as far as his information extended in regard to that part of the country with which he was more immediately connected, he knew it was not. It was rather a want of the means of employing capital and rendering it productive. Next, the right hon. gentleman asserted, that if capital were advanced at 5 per cent, interest it might be usefully employed in public works. With respect to public works, he did not know what magic there was in those words. If public works were productive, private adventurers would still be found willing and able to prosecute them. Roads, canals, bridges were to be
42Mr. Lyttelton
17 said, that having already thrown out hints of his opinion on the subject, be should think himself deficient
17Mr. W. Smith
1918 rose to present, a Petition from certain members of the Academical Society, who had applied for a licence under the bill passed in the present session for preventing seditious meetings, and to whom that licence had been refused. The society was of the most respectable nature: but when a deputation of the members had applied to the London sessions for permission to continue their discussions, some of the sitting magistrates refused to grant the licence, on the ground that it was the intention of the act of parliament to prevent political discussion altogether. How such an interpretation of the act could have been put forth by these magistrates, he was at a loss to imagine. He could only say, that he himself, as well as others who had assented to the bill, had never imagined that such a construction would be put upon it; and, indeed, the declaration implied total ignorance of the act itself. However, as the question had been decided against this society, and as no appeal was open to it, the members were compelled to have recourse to the House.1918Mr. Wilberforce
48 expressed his surprise at the short measure of relief meted out for his native country, considering her merits and her sufferings. Ireland had a claim over every other part of the empire. What had her conduct been? She had been patient under suffering, while here they had been meeting in Spa-fields to subvert the laws of the land. Yet that patient meritorious Island, the right hand of England, was in a state of almost absolute Starvation. He had travelled over five counties of it lately, and found the poor had nothing to subsist upon but their half boiled potatoes and their prayers. Let the people of Ireland have justice done them. They had contributed more than their share to the victorious war that had terminated in a glorious peace; and they did not, like the inhabitants of England, desert their country, and emigrate abroad to spend their money. The number of rich emigrants, who gave to foreigners the bread of their own countrymen, was a serious evil. They were now leaving the country like shoals of herrings. People of all ranks, nobles and commoners, earls and lords, were removing to distant lands. They ought to be made responsible for the money they drew from home, and the people whom they impoverished. They professed to have the object of amusement for their emigration; but if they want amusement out of their own country, let them come among us. Instead of that they run to Dover, from Dover to Calais, from Calais to Boulogne, and from Boulogne to France. [a laugh.] He wished 20 per cent, were laid on the income of air absentees, He would allow none to
48Sir F. Flood
654 rose for the purpose of presenting to the House the Petition from the Roman Catholics of Ireland. It intreated, he said, the favourable attention of the House to their peculiar condition under the pressure of the
654Sir H. Parnell
 rose, merely to protest against two positions that had been laid down in the course of this discussion; one was that of the hon. gentleman, who assumed that the question was now conceded, and that, in fact, nothing remained for consideration but the sort of securities with which the measure should be accompanied. He protested against an assumption that the question was reduced to such a narrow point. In saying this, he begged to be understood as having no religious antipathies; he should as cordially rejoice as any man could at the arrival of the time when those concessions could be made with safety to the established church of the country. When they could be given with safety, then would he be found their advocate. The other opinion against which he protested was, that so fondly and confidently indulged by the hon. baronet and gallant general opposite, that the time had now; arrived when success must crown their endeavours. In this anticipation of success at the ensuing debate, he could by no means participate; on the contrary, his notion on that point was quite the reverse; for, so far from seeing any thing more favourable to the Catholic cause, in the present state and circumstances of the united kingdom and of Europe, from those of a: former period, he thought he saw a variety of reasons for thinking that it by no means stood on a better footing than it did when last discussed. Such was his view, but he would reserve the reasons on which this opinion was grounded until the proper stage of the debate arrived.Sir John Nicholl
 confessed, that he did not exactly understand the right hon. gentleman's plan. In the case of money lent to perfect a turnpike road, independent of the security of the tolls, he understood that a personal security would be given by the borrower to the lender. He wished to know, whether, in parishes, a personal security was required, as well as one on the poor-rates? The right hon. gentleman observed, that the difference between the interest paid by the public for the exchequer bills, and that which would be demanded of the borrowers, would meet every expense incidental to the plan. Now, he begged to inquire, whether the commissioners were to receive salaries or large gratuities?Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, that before he had known that this petition would have been presented, he had given notice of a motion en the subject. He wished to call to the recollection of the House, that one of the strongest arguments urged by that side of the House against the bill was this very circumstance—that a power would thus be put into the hands of magistrates which might be (as in this case it had been) misused; and which would tend to destroy the most valuable right of Englishmen—that of political discussion. It was almost impossible to conceive how such a construction could have been put on the act; but after such an occurrence, it became the duty of ministers to take this opportunity of declaring their opinions on this important subject. Though the magistrates, who in this case had out-Stepped the bounds of the law, had not wilfully transgressed it, yet it was not improbable, that among the motives which induced them to take the course they had pursued, was the opinion that their interference might be agreeable to those high in office. He would call to the recollection of the House and the magistracy, the explanation of discretionary power, as those words were used in acts of parliament. "That discretion," said lord Mansfield, "should be a sound discretion guided by law; it should be a rule, not determined by individual humour, arbitrary, vague, and fanciful, but legal and regular." He would ask whether the conduct of the magistrates in this instance had been guided by a discretion sound, legal, and regular—whether it had not indeed been in the extreme, vague, arbitrary, and fanciful, and prejudicial to the best interests of the subject? He hoped ministers would stand forward and declare that the magistrates had totally misunderstood the act, if they did not do so, he should give notice immediately of a bill to explain the act in question.Sir M. W. Ridley
 concurred in the propriety of the proposed measure, and should have been glad if a greater sum had been determined upon. He thought it was the only mode of relieving the people, for labour was the foundation of wealth; without labour the people could not be happy, or the state prosperous.Sir E. Brydges
lslll26 presented a Petition from certain inhabitants in the county of Glou-
lslll26Sir Samuel Romilly
40 adverted to the injurious effect which would probably be produced by the apprehension of becoming liable to a crown process. If extents of the Crown were so formidable to persons who became debtors of the Crown for ob-
40Sir J. Newport
34 said, it was with much diffidence he obtruded himself upon the attention of the House, but upon a question of so much importance as the present, it might be possible for the most humble individual to suggest something useful. The principle of the proposed plan he took to be an advance of money for the relief of the labouring classes, usually employed in agriculture only. [Here the chancellor or the exchequer stated, that the relief proposed was not intended exclusively for the agriculturists.] Mr. Blake said, he regretted to find he was in a mistake, because he thought the landed interest ought now, especially when it was comparatively so depressed, to meet a larger share of the attention of the House than the commercial interest. It was plain the plan was not to operate as a substitute for the poor laws farther than as its effect would be to diminish the number of persons who would otherwise be obliged to resort to their aid. He submitted, that on the proper application of the funds, which it was proposed to raise, depended the success of the plan; for if a beginning should be made, by giving direct assistance to those who usually laboured in the arts and manufactures—they would be enabled, it was true, to continue their usual avocations, but in the end parliament would increase their stock on hand, and thereby remove their prospect of a market. The only effectual relief, which could be found for the manufacturer was a market. If a market were found for the manufacturer, he was at once supplied with money, and a market would always ensure a supply more than equal to the demand. He was sorry to hear that it was intended to expend so much money in public works. This would depress further the price of land. Land was the grand source of our commercial prosperity—it was the source of our revenue. Public works were generally understood to mean works of ornament rather than of productive utility, and the money expended on them should not be repaid by a taxation on land; but if the money should be expended in the enclosure and cultivation of waste lands, and in the extending and
34Mr. Blake
14131211109 rose, not only on the part of
14131211109Mr. Blake
 was as ignorant as the right hon. gentleman of the motives of the magistrates in the present instance; but he hoped, as the right hon. gentleman was ignorant of the motives of their conduct, he would feel it his duty to mode some inquiry; because, as the petition now stood, it was as much a petition against the House for passing the act in question, as against the magistrates for refusing the licence. In the present instance, where the grievance admitted of speedy complaint from the proximity of the parties, the House might interfere and afford a remedy; but this could not so easily be the case in transactions which might take place at a distance from town. He hoped, therefore, that some mode might be found of keeping the act operative as to its good purposes, and entirely suppressing the possibility of such abuses as the present.Lord Milton
39 said, it would certainly be
39Lord Milton
 recommended the removal of all restrictions on the refinement of salt; the consequence of which would be to render the importation of that article unnecessary.Lord Cochrane
 expressed his willingness to allow the subjects respecting which there was so much difference of opinion, to undergo the examination of a committee above stairs. The question was whether the proper course would be to suspend the progress of the bill till the result of the inquiries of the committee above stairs could be known, or to transmit the bill in a perfect shape to the committee.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was not averse to that part of the bill which went to authorize the free use of rock salt in the fisheries, but he could not consent to the Prohibitory duties on foreign mine salt, f the latter clauses were withdrawn, his objections would be removed; but he must otherwise remain of opinion, that the bill ought to be referred to a committee up stairs.Mr. Davies Gilbert
 was desirous of expediting by every means in his power the proceedings of the finance committee. It was, however, obvious, while occupied with one particular branch of the inquiry, they could not give their attention to other parts of the subject, so as to be able to report on the probable expenditure and revenue of the country, till the estimates had been successively brought before them, and till they had had an opportunity of examining those persons who were capable of giving them that information on which their report must be grounded. They were now taking the course necessary to put them in possession of such information as would enable them to form an opinion on the subjects referred to.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
51 said, it was true the committee were at present occupied with the ordnance estimates, but orders, in the mean time, had been given to the proper officers to prepare the estimates of the income and expenditure of the present and next year, to be laid before them. The
51Mr. D. Gilbert
 said, he should support the motion, not only on the grounds which had been laid so ably by the right hon. mover, but in the hope that the abolition of the office of colonial secretary would lead to a revision of our whole colonial system. It was when the colonial secretaryship had been first appointed in 1768, that this country departed from the simple and wise course of experience in the government of its colonies, to lose itself in the mazes of experiment. A period of 150 years of previous prosperity bore testimony to the excellence of the system that had been established. The effect of the attempt to introduce direct taxation into our colonies was too well known. A long and expensive war ensued, which ended in the dismemberment of the empire, and the loss of colonies that were our pride and our glory, affording an unbounded opening to commercial enterprise, and a prospect for the future beyond the powers of anticipation to estimate. It might have been hoped that this melancholy result would have operated to deter from a similar experiment; but when in the late war the office of third secretary was revived, the system was soon renewed, and the effects would probably be not less disastrous. Trinidad had been made the farm of experiment, his majesty's ministers, like all other gentlemen farmers, had completely failed; and the colony had been reduced to the most ruinous condition. A despotic system of government had been introduced there—Mr. Marryat
7271ll70 said, he should be able to show that the condition of Trinidad had a distinct bearing upon the question. The erroneous system of policy he complained of, had been adopted, not only towards Trinidad, but all the colonies ceded at the late peace. Instead of pursuing the wise policy of Rome, in extending its own laws and the right of citizenship and suf-
7271ll70Mr. Marryat
 rose to say a few words in consequence of his understanding that the right hon. mover had imputed blame to the committee appointed last year, of which he (lord B.) was a member, for not having inquired into the necessity of continuing the third secretary of state. But he wished first to be sure whether he was right in understanding that the right hon. gentleman had imputed blame to that committee.Lord Binning
81l80 said, that some arguments had been urged against the motion of a nature so extraordinary that he could not refrain from noticing them. One hon. gentleman had stated an argument, not indeed for the abolition of the third secretary of state, but an excellent argument for the appointment of a fourth secretary of state; for he had said that the affairs of the colonies required the undivided attention of one secretary of state. He would be glad to know, if this were the fact, what became of the affairs of the colonies while the war was carried on—when the attention of the secretary of state was divided between the war and the colonies? Another reason for opposing the motion given by another hon. member was, that the secretary for the colonies had taken upon himself to act as legislator for the colonies. This was rather an odd reason; certainly it was a novel one. Another reason was, that the noble lord who now held the office in question, did last year write a most conciliatory letter to the House of Assembly of one of the colonies. That was certainly a most extraordinary act of condescension in a legislator, and exhibited great moderation of temper, great humility of mind, and great benevolence of nature. But, for his own part, he was inclined to think that the conciliatory effects alluded to proceeded not from the letter of the noble lord, but from the good sense of that House when it had under its consideration the disturbances in Barbadoes. It was not, however, to the character of any individual that the colonies should look; it was not from any individual they expected conciliation, but from the good sense of that House; it was not from the pleasure of a secretary they would receive laws, but from the wisdom of parliament; it was not to proclamations, and other documents of that nature, they were to attend, but to their own assemblies. Another hon. member seemed to imagine that the House ought to agree in permitting the office to remain, because he had a firm conviction in his mind that it was necessary to have a separate and distinct office for our colonies. No doubt that hon member's conviction was sincere; but it would have been more satisfactory if the reasons upon which that conviction was founded had been stated. But neither cause nor reason was assigned by the hon. gentleman for opposing the motion of his right hon. friend, whom, nevertheless, he had so highly complimented for
81l80Mr. Ponsonby
 called on Mr. Marryat to proceed.The Speaker
 stated, that in point of form there were one or two instances of a perfect bill being sent to a committee up stairs, but this was not the general practice of the House, neither was it convenient. It would be better to suspend the progress of the bill through the House during the sitting of the committee above stairs.The Speaker
l7473 said, that however disposed to concur with his hon. friend, in all his observations upon the anomaly of governing the newly ceded colonies, now the permanent possessions of the Crown, by any other than British laws, he was still of opinion, that the committee proposed by the motion of the right hon. gentleman, was not the proper place where that part of the subject could be most advantageously discussed; nor was the abolition of the important office of the secretary of state for the colonies the most advantageous mode of remedying the evil of which his hon. friend had justly complained.—The subject referred to by his hon. friend involved a question of grave responsibility on the part of those who advised the Crown to govern any part of its dominions by any other administration of law than that of our own invaluable code; but it was a question that could not be usefully discussed in an incidental way, or before a committee, such as the present motion went to establish. It was a subject deserving of the utmost attention of the House at large; and when his hon. friend might deem it desirable to bring it before the House in a distinct and substantive shape, he would give every support to his view of the case which it might be in his power to afford.l7473Mr. Anthony Browne
82 said, that the question for the House to decide upon was, whether the administration of the affairs of the colonies could be combined with such important objects as those which engaged the attention and occupied the whole time of the other secretaries of state. When the duties of each of the offices to which the business of the colonial department was proposed to be referred were considered, it would be allowed, that such a combination was impracticable. The fact was, that the duties of the office in question, could be executed only by a single individual; an individual of address and attention; who should take a particular interest in that province, and attend to its duties with undivided assiduity. All expressed themselves satisfied with the manner in which the present secretary discharged the duties of his office. This was gratifying to him; but the question was, whether it could be administered together with any other office. He put it to the serious consideration of gentlemen, whether the duties of such an office could be well performed in conjunction with any other office. His majesty's ministers were animated with the strongest desire to alleviate the distresses of the country. He would challenge any gentleman to point out one instance in which they had not attended to retrenchment, and promoted economy to the utmost of their power. Gentlemen who had had opportunities of thoroughly knowing the nature of the duties to be performed in the department in question, did not think the existence of it unnecessary. The occupation of mind it called for at present rendered it of the greatest importance. In a different state of the country it might perhaps be dispensed with. When all the effects and consequences of the war were at an end, it might perhaps be abolished without injury to the public service; but while the country was in its present state it was indispensable. A noble lord complained that the inquiry proposed by the motion now before the House had not been made by the committee of finance, but the truth was, that this office was not within the scope of that committee. The information which that committee would have required could be
82Mr. Bathurst
85 had no objection to the motion, and would have abstained from any observation at present, had he not been called up by the allusion, which the hon. baronet had made to a noble relative at the head of the home department. It had been said, that the noble secretary might be better employed in writing letters to instruct the magistrates in the interpretation of the law, than in writing circulars to abridge the public liberty. The hon. baronet had here assumed two things which remained to be proved, and which he, when the proper opportunity offered, would show to be unfounded; namely, that the circular alluded to was contrary to law; and that the secretary of state was bound to instruct magistrates in the proper construction of the late act. Till the former of those points was proved, the noble secretary could not be accused of abridging the liberties of the subject. He had acted on the best advice, and what he had done would be found conformable to law and justice. With regard to the second point, he denied that it was the duty of the secretary of state to instruct the magistrates in the interpretation of acts of parliament. Such was the doctrine held by an hon. and learned gentleman last night, who had said that magistrates were to exercise their
85Mr. Bathurst
 said, he had opposed a motion similar to the present, when brought forward by the right hon. gentleman last year, and he did not think he should do his duty towards the colonies, if he did not give it his decided negative now. So far from concurring in the opinion, that it was necessary to abolish the office of third secretary of state, in consequence of the peace, he rather rejoiced that the cessation of war would allow the whole and undivided attention of the person filling that office, to be directed to colonial affairs. If the office of the third secretary of state were abolished, he was convinced that instead of proving beneficial to the affairs of the colonies, it would be highly prejudicial, and might ultimately lead to their total loss.Mr. Protheroe
 disclaimed having imputed blame to the committee.Mr. Tierney
 said, it was clear what must be the result—a great issue of floating securities of some description or other. It was, however, proper that the House should know in what way the chancellor of the exchequer proposed to provide for the service of the year, and above all what amount of exchequer bills had been purchased by the bank, of which they had at present no account.Mr. Tierney
 observed, that those examinations on which their report was to be made had not yet begun. Such was now admitted to be the situation in which matters stood. The House would remember how he had been scouted when this committee was moved for, on his proposing that two committees should be formed instead of one. Had the course he recommended been then pursued, at this day they would have had a general view of the state of the country before them. Now he would defy any man to say, that such a statement could be brought forward for discussion earlier than in the month of June.Mr. Tierney
64l6362lllll6160lllllllll59lllllllll5857ll565554bona fide5352 said, he now rose to renew, in point of substance though not of form, a motion which he had made last session of parliament; but in which motion he unfortunately had not succeeded. That motion was, "That an humble address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, to represent to his royal highness,
64l6362lllll6160lllllllll59lllllllll5857ll565554bona fide5352Mr. Tierney
 wished to know when the Finance Committee were expected to report on the income and expenditure of the country. They were at present occupied with the ordnance estimates of the army, and having disposed of them, they proposed to take up those of the navy, so that he apprehended some weeks must elapse before they would make another report. He could wish to ask the chancellor of the exchequer if he meant to take a loan in the present year, or if he had any intention of funding exchequer bills. It was rumoured that he did not propose to do either, and if this were the fact, the House must see how important it was that they should be made acquainted with the right hon. gentleman's new scheme of finance. That a large sum must in some way be raised for the service of the year could not be disputed, but he thought the House ought not to wait for the report of the committee on estimates not yet referred to them, before they were put in possession of the right hon. gentleman's plan. If they did this, he wished to press upon the House at what a very late period of the session they must enter upon the discussion of the finances of the country.Mr. Tierney
86— The right hon. gentleman has correctly represented the observation which fell from me on a former occasion. I then asserted what I now repeat, that the minister of the Crown has no right to interfere with the magistracy in the exercise of their judicial duties. But the right hon. gentleman reprehends my hon. friend, on the presumption that he attached blame to the noble lord at the head of the home department, in not issuing his instructions to the magistracy respecting the construction they should put on the law of the land. My hon. friend intimated no such opinion. He merely expressed his conviction, that it would be as well if the noble secretary had taken the same trouble to guard the rights of the people from invasion, as he took in writing circulars, when the object of such communications went to the abridgment of their liberties. It is not now the proper period to discuss the merits of that circular. It cannot be denied that, whether legal or illegal, its object is to abridge the liberty of the subject. What the strict law is, it is not necessary that I should in this stage give an opinion; but this I contend, that in point of fact, the practice, as recommended in that Circular, was different from previous usage. There might be found an isolated precedent or two, perhaps, but almost the uniform practice was different. The true question for the House to consider was, not whether that circular was compatible with the law and the practice, but whether the secretary of state for the home department, had a right to assume the province of expounding the law, of dictating to the magistracy of the county in the exercise of their judicial functions. And on what authority is this power assumed? Is it by an exposition of the law of the land, or by a declaratory act of the legislature—the only expounders that the constitution recognises? No—this extraordinary interference is assumed on the paid, legal, professional opinion of two hired servants of the Crown, on which alone the secretary
86Mr. Brougham.
69ll68676665 was perfectly aware, that every department of the state, might, with propriety, be called on for a statement of the nature of its services; and for himself, he certainly had no personal right to object to the motion of the right hon. gentleman. He had a little to add to what he had stated on this subject on a former occasion; but as he considered the motion of the right hon. gentleman had in reality for its object the abolition of the office of third secretary of state, though it appeared only to demand an inquiry, he must answer that part of the right hon. gentleman's speech, in which he imputed to his majesty's ministers a disinclination to adopt any measures of economy till they were compelled to them by the voice of the House. He was as willing as any gentleman on the opposite side of the House to agree in the reduction of useless places, but he thought it a pernicious parsimony to reduce such as were necessary and efficient. He did not think himself bound to show the inexpediency of appointing a second committee to inquire into the utility and efficiency of this office in particular, when a committee already existing had made the very investigations which the right hon. gentleman recommended. If the proceedings of that committee had not been such as to gratify hon. gentlemen on the other side, that was owing to their own refusal to join in the labours of the committee, and, as he thought, deprived them of any right of
69ll68676665Mr. Goulburn
 rose to order. He was prepared at any time to discuss the question of the treatment of Trinidad, but he could not imagine how it could have any bearing on the question before the House.Mr. Goulburn
87 felt it right to explain the particulars of the circumstance which took place before the London Sessions. An application had been made on the part of a society, who stated the subjects of their discussion to be of a quadruple nature, viz. philosophical, literary, historical, and political. This application was made at an hour when the judges had just retired, and some of the city magistrates were on the bench, while preparations were making for arraigning some of the London prisoners. In this interval, the application was made, and a casual objection started which might have been easily settled, if the gentlemen, deputed to make the application, had thought proper to comply with the desire of some of the magistrates, who simply wanted a definition of the historical and political subjects they meant to discuss. He was satisfied that the magistrates who were at the time on the Bench, acted to the best of their judgment, and meant any thing but a capricious rejection. They were men who would never swerve from the principles of strict justice, and the rejection on that occasion by no means excluded the applicants from their regular form of seeking a licence at the quarter sessions. The worthy baronet was under a mistake when he asserted that the Recorder concurred,
87Mr. Alderman Atkins
 said, that being perfectly satisfied with the impression which the agitation of this question had produced on both sides of the House, it was not his intention to trouble them with any additional observations during this session. In the next session, however, he hoped to be able, with the assistance of those hon. members who concurred with his sentiments on this subject, to relieve the public from this most grievous, unjust, and impolitic tax. At present, he was perfectly satisfied with what had been done, anticipating that they should obtain that benefit in the next session. He could not sit down, however, without disclaiming the intention of recommending any commutation for this tax; and, least of all, that any additional burthen should be imposed on the article of beer.Mr. Calcraft
 supported the motion, observing, that while the duke of Portland presided at the home department, the business of the colonies was transacted in that department without any inconvenience to the public service, and during that period, namely, from 1794 to 1801, it was notorious that the colonial business was much greater than it could possibly be at present. The creation of the new office was unfortunate, as it was accompanied by the signals of rebellion. It did not appear that two secretaries might not do all the business. Mr. Burke proposed this in 1782, by a consolidation of the departments, declaring in his emphatic language, "that the inutility of a third secretary of state was as glaring as the burning light of day." He admitted that the duties of the office of his hon. friend opposite were very laborious, but yet he thought that a consolidation would diminish them.Mr. J. H. Smyth
75 rose, not to impute any blame to the official conduct of the secretary of state for the colonial department,
75Mr. Barham
 concurred in the same opinion.Mr. Finlay
 was desirous that the farther consideration of this question should be postponed. In his opinion, the surrender of the whole of the duties on salt would have been a wise measure, even though the condition had been the continuance of the entire malt duties.Mr. Grenfell
49 said, that the bill was intended not to oppress but to relieve the fisheries, by giving them the liberty to use rock salt, and thus bring to a certainty those experiments which had been successfully made in several instances. The bill was not founded on the representations of commissioners of excise, but on the evidence of persons interested both in the salt trade and in the fisheries. The trials which had been made led to a sanguine belief that rock salt was perfectly applicable to the purposes of curing and preserving fish. He thought it absurd
49Mr. Lushington
l77l declared, that from all he knew and heard, the office alluded to was overloaded with business, and from what he understood, such was also the case in the home department. The House, then, should duly consider whether the business of the colonies should be exposed to any neglect by acceding to the proposed arrangement. It was a duty which he owed to the colonies, to see that they were well governed; and he was of opinion that it required an individual of great consideration to look after concerns so important to the public interests: a person who should hold a high station in the public eye. He was disposed to take away offices which were without business to transact; but that did not appear to be the present question. Questions of the present description required specific consideration. With respect to the system of policy which prevailed in the government of some of our colonies, that was not at present the question before the House. But as to Trinidad, he had no hesitation in stating, that the Spanish law of that colony, as it applied to the larger portion of its population, was much more mild and humane than that which prevailed in any other colony. The saving of 12,000l77lMr. Wilberforce
 opposed the bill in its present state, as calculated to throw 20,000 of his constituents, who were fishermen, out of employment, and drive them to commit smuggling and other illegal acts. He recommended that the subject should be considered by a committee above stairs, with a view to some modification that might remedy the evils with which the bill was fraught. Unless this were assented to, he should feel it his duty to move that the bill be read a second time on that day six months.Sir C. Pole
84 said, that after the conversation that took place last night, on the Petition of the members of the Academical Society, it was not his intention at present to press the particular motion of which he had given notice for that evening. He still, however, wished to state, that it was not unlikely that on a future occasion, he should feel it his duty to revert to that subject. The House would hear with regret, that the decision so lately referred to, was not a solitary instance of magisterial misinterpretation of the late act of parliament, even in the city of London. Another most respectable institution of very long standing in the metropolis, called the City Philosophical Society, had also received a refusal to their application for a licence. This society was established in the year 1808, for the discussion of questions of natural philosophy; and he was fully confident, that were the House in possession of the regulations of that society, they were such as it could not disapprove. On the 14th of April last, in conformity with the enactments of the act, they applied to the magistrates of the city of London for a licence. The House must be astonished to hear that this application was refused, not indeed on the exact grounds on which a similar denial was given to the Academical Institution, but on the principle, that it was necessary to be made acquainted with the names of every one of its members, and to be in possession of the list of questions submitted to their discussion. The House would hear with still greater surprise, that the recorder of London was consulted at this meeting of magistrates, and had concurred in the propriety of the refusal on such grounds. Here, then, was a second instance of what, unwilling as he was to impute any harsh or unfair motive to these magistrates, he must call a second flagrant mistake in their construction of the statute. If such, therefore, were the mistakes of men exercising judicial duties in the metropolis, men who, from their station in life and general intercourse, must be presumed to be well-informed, and enabled to have the fullest information, what, he would ask, would be the misconceptions of magistrates in the country, respecting the operation of that law, deprived, as they were, of such advantages? Indeed, it was not left for the House to surmise on this point, as he had heard that a bench of country magistrates had
84Sir M. W. Ridley
l76 did not feel prepared to enter particularly into the question respecting Trinidad. The interests of the colonies he had always considered as closely connected with those of the mother country; but he conceived that the hon. gentleman's statement on the other side, as to the number of clerks employed or the quantity of business transacted in the colonial office, formed no argument whatever against the motion, because all those clerks and that business might be transferred to another office, without incumbering the country with the salary and emoluments of a third secretary of state. The statement of an increase of business in the colonial office, in consequence of the number of letters from this country, through the diffusion of elementary learning, was really ludicrous; as if the systems of
l76Sir M. W. Ridley
 thought the matters of detail necessarily involved in a question of this nature demanded investigation before a select committee, where all the evidence might be fully examined.Sir T. Acland
 seconded the motion, and declared, that if the bill were to pass in its present state, the fisheries in Cornwall could not be carried on. If an opportunity were offered to the fishermen by the appointment of a committee above stairs, he was confident that they could show insuperable objections to the adoption of the measure.Sir W. Lemon
78 congratulated his hon. friend (Mr. Wilberforce) on having added one to the numerous speeches he had made during the session, in which he commenced with professing economy, but ended with voting for prodigality. He did not attribute the speech and vote of the hon. gentleman to any but the purest motives, although he could not help observing, that they were quite irreconcileable. All who knew his hon. friend must know his sincerity; but he seemed too much caught by the speech of the hon. gentleman opposite respecting the number of letters, and pages of entries. These, however they might affect the clerks, &c. could have little to do with the responsibility of the secretary of state. His hon. friend appeared to make some mistake in his usual discrimination, between governing well
78Lord Milton
 signified his assent to the motion, but trusted that the laity were still to retain the power of interfering in the discipline of the church, whenever it should appear to be neglected.General Thornton
 seconded the motion, and observed, that though this bill would establish a new law, it would not enact any new practice, as, for upwards of twenty years past, the proprietors of these mines had been rated towards the relief of the poor.Lord Milton
 stated, that the practice had been the same in Cornwall as in Yorkshire. He was glad to understand that the noble lord had no other object than that which he had announced, as mistaken ideas were entertained in some parts of the country on the subject.Mr. Davies Gilbert
 said that the proprietors ought to bear some part of the burthen of relieving the poor; and he trusted there would be no objection to the introduction of the bill.Mr. Curwen
 did not desire that the hon. gentleman should go through all the clauses in detail; but if there were any prominent features of difference more substantial than the rest, it would be convenient if they were communicated to the House.Mr. Brougham
 wished to know, as the subject was of great importance, what were the principal amendments of the existing law which the hon. and learned gentleman intended to submit.Mr. Babington
 felt some difficulty in at once answering the question of the hon. gentleman, as the alterations were of a nature to be best understood when examined in the bill itself. With regard to the 53rd of the king, the clauses providing for the support of stipendiary curates were differently arranged, but the principle remained substantially the same.Mr. Manners Sutton
92 replied, that the first part of the bill was only an alteration of the 43rd of the king, relative to spiritual persons holding farms; and the object of it was to allow a clergyman, under certain circumstances of convenience, to occupy 20 acres of ground in addition to his glebe. The next part related to the residence of the clergy. The hon. and learned gentleman knew that the 54th of the king remedied the 43rd of the king, by postponing the actions brought by common informers, leaving an interval in which the informalities against the act might be supplied. In order to give more facility to the due observance of the law on this subject, it was proposed to alter the ecclesiastical year, and to make it commence on the 1st of January and end on the 31st of December, the result of
92Mr. Manners Sutton
919089 said, that it was perhaps unnecessary for him to apologize to the House for prefacing the motion which he was about to submit to its attention with a few introductory observations. His object was, to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend and consolidate the different acts for regulating the residence of the clergy. In the first place, he begged leave shortly to state what the course hitherto pursued by parliament had been toward the accomplishment of that end, namely, the enforcement of residence on the benefices held by spiritual persons. The act of Henry 8th whatever had been its merits originally, or its ultimate practical inconvenience, remained in full force till the 43d of the present king. This act, which was then substituted for the former statute, was prepared by his right hon. and learned friend, the member for the university of Oxford (Sir W. Scott) and gave certain powers to common informers, which had been perverted a few years ago into an instrument of grievous injustice and oppression. To such an extent had the system of persecution been carried, that parliament felt itself bound to interfere by the extraordinary step of enacting, that all the existing prosecutions under the statute should be suspended, and the temporary act of the 54th of the king was passed. The clause by which it was made temporary, was not founded upon the consideration that the evil also was of a temporary nature, but for the purpose of affording a future opportunity of bringing the whole subject in the form of some general and digested measure, before the attention of the House. This was expedient, both for the defence of the clergy, and for the due performance of their duties to the public. The act of the 54th of the king was on the eve of expiring, the consequence of which would be the revival, in all its parts, of the act of the 43d, and the exposure of the clergy to all those hardships and inconveniences from which it had been judged necessary to relieve them on a former occasion by a very unusual proceeding. Assuming, therefore, that it was not proper to leave the law in its present state, or to throw the beneficed clergy headlong into the grasp of common informers, he apprehended that it was still advisable
919089Mr. Manners Sutton
 replied, that there was a clause to that effect. The only object of the clause was, to give greater facilities for carrying into effect that which was law already.Mr. Manners Sutton
 characterized the measure as one of the greatest importance. The mere rumour of it had excited much apprehension throughout the country, lest it should contain clauses calculated to increase the power of the bishops at the expense of the parochial clergy. He strongly recommended deliberation. He wished to ask the hon. gentleman if there was to be any clause in the bill giving a bishop the power to appoint a curate in a casein which the beneficed clergyman resided, but in the bishop's opinion did not properly perform his duty.Lord Ebrington
 also having a petition to present on the subject, made a few observations on it, the tendency of which was generally in coincidence with the remarks of the noble lord, but at the same time recommending that some restriction should be laid on the importation of the coarser kinds of foreign wool. The wool growers wished, either for a tax on the importation of foreign wool, or a bounty on the exportation of their own wool, but would prefer the former.Mr. D. Gilbert,
d.s.s. said, he held in his hand a Petition relating to a very important subject, viz, the laws which regulated the growth, trade, and manufacture of Wool. The petitioners, who consisted of a number of respectable wool growers in the neighbourhood of Bright-helmston, considered themselves much aggrieved that there should be so little restraint on the importation of foreign wool whilst the prohibitions on the export trade gave the manufacturer a monoply of all wool of British growth. He would remind the House, that the price of this article had lately fallen 50 per cent., or from 3d.s.s.Mr. Burrell
95 having a similar petition to present from Essex, wished to say a few words on the subject. In the last year, the House having recognized the situation of the agricultural interests of the country as one of great distress, appointed a special committee to investigate the causes, and to endeavour to discover a remedy. In that committee, the state of the wool trade ought to have been a subject of primary consideration. Of the necessity of some measure for the relief of the wool-growers, there was a general impression. Persecuted, on the one hand, by the laws, which inflicted a severe penalty on any attempt on their part to and a foreign market for their wool, and on the
95Mr. Western,
97 said, he held in his hand a Petition from the borough of St Ives, in Huntingdonshire, praying for a Reform in parliament. He should take this opportunity of remarking, with reference to the measure of relief brought forward by the chancellor of the exchequer, that he had never considered the distresses of the country, great as they were, to be of a permanent nature. He regarded them as arising out of the corruption of that House, and the insupportable load of taxation which an unnecessary war, supported by that corruption, had brought upon us. He entertained hopes from the tranquillity, and he might say the passive acquiescence with which the people had endured sufferings which might have provoked a different conduct, that parliament would see at length that their interests, and the interests of the country at large, were the same thing. Convinced as he was and as the petitioners appeared to be, that every political evil under which they laboured was in someway or other connected with the notorious corruptions of that House, he hoped
97Sir F. Burdett
 said, that in consequence of a number of communications received by him respecting the Administration of Justice in Wales, since he had given notice of a motion for excluding the Welch judges from a seat in the House of Commons, he had thought proper to alter his intention with regard to the nature of his motion. He had not spoken to one gentleman of Wales who did not disapprove of the mode in which justice was administered in that part of the empire. He would therefore move, "That a select committee be appointed to inquire into and report to the House their opinion touching the laws relating to the administration of justice in Wales."Mr. Ponsonby
 seconded the motion, and said, that the laws relative to the administration of justice in Wales required considerable revision.Sir W. W. Wynn
 said, he would not oppose the motion; but he wished it to be understood, that in agreeing to it, he did not mean to throw any slur on those most respectable persons concerned in the administration of justice in Wales, which was certainly different from those which pervaded the other parts of the kingdom, and he therefore thought them a very fair subject for parliamentary inquiry.Lord Castlereagh
 disclaimed any intention of throwing a slur on the persons actually employed in the administration of the laws of that country.Mr. Ponsonby
9998 said, that if the question which was fixed for that night had been brought on, he should have thought it his duty to have explained some matters which related more particularly to himself in his judicial capacity. He was extremely anxious to have an opportunity, which indeed now presented itself, of speaking on that subject. He had scarcely left town, when he was informed that an hon. baronet had asked in that House, whether he and an hon. and learned friend had not postponed the circuit for a week or a fortnight, on account of special retainers which they had received to go to Launceston. He never heard any fact that gave him more utter astonishment. No human creature had ever suggested to him, even in a whisper, that any arrangement which had been
9998The Attorney-General
 declared, that he had never heard of any inconvenience to any body but the attorney-general for the circuit. When lord Ellenborough was attorney-general, he took special retainers to the last.The Attorney-General
100 said, that he had been that circuit for seven years, and the chief justice had always thought himself at liberty to make very great deviations in fixing the time of the assize. In the present instance he did not think that any inconvenience had been occasioned by delay. He never remembered, however, that the associate opened the court. It was usual to appoint a barrister to do so, because it might be necessary to make a motion which could not be heard before the
100Mr. Wynn
 said, he had received communications from gentlemen in the profession, who thought very differently from the hon. and learned gentleman. He understood, with reference to Easter, that the Chester assizes were twelve days later than usual, and according to the most favourable way of viewing the subject, two days later than usual. They felt that something different from the ordinary course had taken place on the present occasion.Mr. Abercrombie
 expressed a hope, that this would be the last time that the two offices of attorney-general and chief justice of Chester, would be vested in the same person. Very considerable inconvenience must always arise from this union, and he trusted the committee would direct their attention particularly to this subject.Mr. Macdonald
103102101** in moving for leave to bring in a bill for Repealing the Laws that regulate the rate of Interest, did not propose to go into the subject at length, as it had been fully discussed on a former occasion;* but must remind the House, that these laws were not only attended with no good effects, but were productive of the most pernicious consequences; and though they had now existed for a great length of time, and derived some sanction from their antiquity, it was a most mistaken notion as to the views of the first framers, which had supported the sanction they enjoyed, and the prejudices which prolonged their existence. These laws had originated in a wish to open, not to limit, the rate of interest. Before their enactment it had been forbidden to take any interest at all on the loan of money. Every profit, even the smallest, derived from such a loan, was branded with the name of usury; and it was with a view not so much to limit the rate of interest, as to protect
103102101**Mr. Serjeant Onslow,
 said, that in the general principle of the measure proposed, he perfectly coincided. It was, however, to be recollected, that when, a system of laws existed to which the community had been long accustomed, and on which private arrangements and legal transactions were founded, to repeal them, even if they should be erroneous in principle, was a matter of some difficulty and delicacy. He doubted whether as yet the public mind was prepared for the measure; but he acknowledged the state of public credit was such that the question might be agitated without inconvenience, and he had hopes it might lead to a successful issue. The difficulty in raising money on landed securities was now less than it had been, and the state of the money market was such, that great accommodation to the agricultural interest might be hoped for from the diffusion of capital through the country. He should reserve his judgment on the measure proposed till he saw the particular enactments of it, to which he should give his utmost attention.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 held in his hand a Petition from the corporation of Dublin, which he regretted that most respectable body had not, by availing themselves of an ancient privilege which they claimed, presented to the House by their own officers, as it would have relieved him from what he felt to be a very unpleasant duty. It was the petition against the claims of the catholics. As he had the honour to be one of the representatives of the city of Dublin, he was, in that capacity, instructed to present it; but, at the same time, he must confess that he totally differed from the sentiments expressed in this petition by his worthy and honourable constituents—he differed from them totally and sincerely. But, as he did not think it his duty to pass any criticisms or observations on the petition of the city which he had the honour to represent, he would merely beg leave to lament that which he would not presume to condemn.Mr. Grattan
 said, that at the appointment of the committee alluded to, it was found impossible to investigate the whole subject; and the consequence was, a resolution to limit the inquiry in the first instance to the state of the wool trade. The result, was that it appeared that wool had borne a sufficient price up to that period, and had not therefore affected the agricultural interest. The committee sat before Easter, so that there was ample time for hearing the evidence of the wool-growers, but not one attended to make any communication. With regard to the general question of policy, he must oppose the prayer of these petitions at all times, but he thought the distress of the manufacturing interests an unanswerable objection to it at the present period.Lord Lascelles
 expressed his approbation of the bill, which, he doubted not, would enable the public to borrow money at a lower, rather than at a higher rate of interest, than that now sanctioned by law.Mr. H. Martin
 urged the necessity of an inquiry, but admitted that it would lead to a very wide and important investigation, comprehending not merely our domestic interests but our foreign policy.Mr. Curwen
105 said, the learned serjeant seemed to be perfectly aware of the inconvenience to which persons would be exposed, to whom land had been mortgaged, if a lower rate of interest were introduced; but, to obviate this difficulty, he had very properly stated, that he would postpone the operation of the bill to a very distant period, that parties might be enabled to make every necessary arrangement. He thought the operation of the bill would fall heavily on the landed interest. The money market would be in a constant state of fluctuation. Per-
105Mr. Lockhart
bona fide complained of the limitation that the committee of last year imposed on their inquiries, and represented that the House owed it to the country and to its own character, to appoint a committee to go into a bona fideMr. Frankland Lewis
104 gave the motion his hearty concurrence, being convinced that the measure must be of essential advantage to the empire in general, but particularly to Ireland, which possessed such natural advantages, as, if properly cultivated by means of capital, would enable her to vie with any country in the world. He observed, that money ought to be permitted to regulate its own price, and in this opinion he was supported by the experience of time, as it would appear developed in the acts of the legislature. The first of these acts restrained the interest of money to 10 per cent; the next reduced it to 8, observing in its preamble, "that the high interest of money was injurious to agriculture;" the next statute lowered the interest of money to 7 per cent.; and that which followed brought it down to 6 per cent. The last statute on this subject was the 12th of Anne, chap.
104Sir F. Flood
96 observed, that all that the petitioners required was a fair remune-
96Mr. Shiffner
 said, that it was with no view of calumniating the hon. and learned gentleman that he had put the question which had been alluded to. He had information on which he thought he could rely, that the sittings at Chester had been postponed, on account of other engagements of the hon. and learned gentleman; and although he was bound to give credit to all that had now been stated, yet he was not at all persuaded that the sittings at Chester had not commenced later than usual by nine days. The hon. and learned gentleman acknowledged, that of two plans which had been submitted to him, he had chosen that which gave him the opportunity of going to Launceston. It was not for him to determine any thing as to this, or whether it was usual for the attorney-general to take special retainers. He believed that he was correct in saying that the gentlemen of the bar had experienced great inconvenience from the arrangement made by the hon. and learned gentleman.Sir M. W. Ridley
106 said, that the fluctuations in the money-market, to which the learned gentleman alluded, were experienced at present, and the bill, he believed, would tend to lower them. What was the state of the law now? The legislature had enacted a statute, preventing a larger rate of interest than five per cent., from being taken by the lender of money. The effect of that law, in its operation, had been so ruinous, that the legislature itself had been obliged to depart from its provisions, by having recourse to the annuity system, which, in some degree, relieved the country from its effects. The legislature should certainly do one of two things—either have no fixed rate of interest, or, if they sanctioned one, they ought to enforce it. They had not done either. They had established a fixed rate of interest, and they had then departed from their own principle, by giving persons an opportunity of borrowing on annuity, by which, in effect, a very large interest was realised, and a great degree of obloquy was cast on the lender upon annuities. He begged the House to recollect that in those countries where no fixed rate of interest existed, money was borrowed at a lower rate than in those where a contrary system prevailed. He could instance, as a proof of this, Holland, Flanders, and, indeed, all countries where the principle of a fixed rate of interest was not sanctioned; and, if they travelled from Holland and Flanders to Russia and Great Britain, the effect of the system, in both cases, would bring the subject fairly under their view. In the two latter countries provisions restricting the rate of interest within a certain boundary, had been introduced, and in both they had been evaded. In Great Britain, the principle of leaving money to find its own level, was sanctioned by the annuity act; and he was convinced, that not only the borrower on mortgage, but borrowers of every class in society, would procure money at a much cheaper rate
106Sir J. Newport
108 said, it was with great concern that he felt it to be his duty, as chairman of the committee appointed to inquire into the state of the police of the metropolis, to bring under the consideration of the House a Breach of Privilege contained in a book recently published, and which had been sent to the committee by the author purporting to be "A Vindication of the Magistrates acting in and for the Tower Division, from the Charges contained in a printed work, intituled, 'The Report of the Committee on the State of the Police of the Metropolis; together with the Minutes of Evidence taken before the Committee of the House of Commons.' By Thomas Thirlwall, M. A. Rector of Bowel's Gifford, Essex, and magistrate for the counties of Middlesex and Essex." Without making any comment on the general tone of the work, which was by no means respectful towards the committee, he would only observe, that several passages were so extremely offensive to the feelings of the committee and so hostile to the privileges of the House, that it was thought fit to summon Mr. Thirlwall before them, to require some explanation of his conduct. When Mr. Thirlwall appeared before the committee, he avowed himself to be the
108Mr. Bennet
112111110 proceeded to state, that when Mr. Thirlwall appeared before the committee, some explanation was required from him of the passages which had been read by the clerk. He would pass over that part of the explanation which related to himself personally, and confine himself to that which regarded the last paragraph which had been read by the clerk beginning with "It is well known my loyalty to my king, and attachment to the constitution," and ending with "I protest against a trial by committees, inquisitions, or star-chambers." The committee observed to Mr. Thirlwall that this passage contained an innuendo strongly pointed against them, and proceeded to ask for explanation on the subject.—The hon. member proceeded to read the interrogations and replies, which were as follow:112111110Mr. Bennet
 seconded the motion, and desired, as a member of the committee, to confirm the statement of the hon. chairman. As he was not on the committee when the book was published, he could not be supposed to be actuated by any personal feeling, when he described the publication as a gross libel; and if any thing could exceed the impropriety of it, it was the tone and manner that accompanied the explanation.Sir Oswald Moseley
 observed, that he had very regularly attended his duty as a member of the police committee, and that it gave him great satisfaction to witness the attention and ability of the hon. chairman. It was not a fact that the chairman sometimes examined witnesses alone. The committee was in general very fully attended.Mr. Calvert
 was of opinion, that the motion of the hon. chairman ought to be acceded to by the House. When the reverend gentleman should attend, it would be for the House to take into consideration any circumstances of extenuation which he might, submit to them. In his opinion, all that the committee had done, was, not to extort from the party any improper declaration, but merely to afford him the opportunity of making such an explanation as might induce them to forbear their complaint to the House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 contended, that on the very face of the transaction the House had no discretion to exercise. With respect to any apology that might have been made by the individual in question, the House could take no cognizance of it, for it was not officially before them. It could not consider the explanation of the party either as an extenuation, or as an aggravation of his conduct, unless that part of the evidence were reported to them by the committee. There was but one course to pursue, namely to agree to the motion.Mr. Wynn
 contended, that the committee, in the course which they pursued with respect to the subject in question, had not exceeded their authority.Mr. Broderick
 said, that he never listened to any proposition with more pain than he did to that just made by the hon. member, because he was sure that much good could be made out of the bill: it might be rendered very useful to Ireland, where they all admitted the evil was sore and pressing, and such as imperatively demanded a remedy. If the hon. member thus abandoned the bill, he could not foresee that any other member was likely to take it up with the same spirit and effect. The hon. member had laboured sedulously and honestly: he stood quite clear of any imputation of having a private object, or a job in view; his intention was evidently to relieve the people of Ireland from the oppression under which they groaned, by the abominable corruption that was practised under the grand jury laws in that country. The hon. member must indeed feel mortified, after producing as perfect a bill as the nature of the case would at first admit of, to be thus compelled to abandon it. He hoped, however, that something would be done to get rid of this tissue of peculation and oppression.Mr. Ponsonby
118 admitted, that a deep evil would indeed arise if the abandonment of the present measure were to imply a want of intention to remedy the evils complained of—evils, that he was ready to declare had existence, and ought to be remedied. He cordially concurred in the wish that his hon. friend would give a pledge to the House of bringing the subject again before parliament in the course of the present session. On the whole, however, he could not regret the abandonment of the bill which had been introduced, for he much questioned the policy of repealing the fabric of the laws, until a sure and effective substitute was first provided in their place. It was most impolitic to commence the reform by abrogating the existing system. It would, in his opinion, be a far better course to point out the distinct evils where they stood in the frame of the laws, and at once apply specific and distinct remedies for them. It had been on a former occasion said, that the blanks
118Mr. Peel
 felt that there was an absolute necessity to make a general and complete alteration in these Jaws, nor could he see any difficulty in pursuing the course which his hon. friend was now about to abandon. It was quite clear that a more minute examination of the presentment accounts was necessary, and that a string of clauses should be provided for that purpose. This of itself would be a great alteration in the present system, and when the subject came fully before them in one general shape, they could better say what parts should be suffered to remain, and what should be abrogated. This would be a better course than to take the thing in parts, and perhaps bring the ameliorating laws in direct collision with each other.Mr. Courtenay
119 agreed that the Irish grand jury laws required substantial reformation, and was glad to see that the only prevailing difference of opinion was, as to the mode of effecting the object. In this view he thought the abandonment of the measure salutary, as it would enable the hon. member to bring in a more practical and specific measure during the present session. He would briefly call the attention of the House to what had been already done on this subject. The whole of the Irish grand jury laws had been early last 3'ear referred to a select committee, who embodied in their resolutions upon them six or eight distinct propositions. The hon. gentleman to whom the preparation of the bill was consigned, unfortunately embraced a wider scope of action than he was strictly authorized to do by the committee. His bill might be divided into three parts; 1st, the introduction of the new matter to be adopted; 2dly, the mode of re-enacting the new laws, and the explanatory qualifications that were to accompany them; and 3dly, the fresh unauthorized matter which he himself introduced. These laws were
119Mr. Leslie Foster
117 felt so deep an interest in the labours of the committee in question, of which he had been a member, that he could not behold a cessation of their labours in this manner without considerable pain. He could readily imagine that there must be a great difficulty in bringing in a bill, the object of which was no less than the repeal of the whole mass of the Irish grand jury laws. So far as related to the repeal of the particular and prominent parts of the laws in question, and then substituting others in their place, he could have no objection. This subject was really one of greater importance than could at first sight be supposed; those who only knew the state of the grand jury laws in England could form no opinion of their operation in Ireland.—In the latter country they were severe and oppressive; they affected the comforts, nay the morals of the people, and all who had at heart the interest of the inhabitants of that unfortunate country, must wish to see the present system altered without delay. He therefore heard with regret that the hon. member, whose labours in this work were so constant and exemplary, should feel himself in a situation of abandoning the matter at the present moment. It would be a great public calamity, indeed, if an impression went abroad, that after a committee had sat on the subject for nearly two sessions, they should find themselves without the means of suggesting some practical remedy for an admitted evil of this extensive nature. He did, however, hope and trust that the matter would not be permitted to rest here, that the principles of the report of the committee would be acted upon, and that the united parliament would give a pledge to the people of Ireland of their determination to pro-
117Mr. Abercrombie
 approved of Mr. Cooper's course. A new proposition would, he trusted, soon be made, which would disentangle the consideration from the mass of matter in which it would be mixed if the present course were still farther pursued. All concurred in the necessity of an essential reform; many, however, differed, not only as to the points of reformation, but also as to the remedy proposed. He hoped his hon. friend would still keep the subject alive, and introduce it in such a manner as would be most likely to effect the object which all had in view. It could not be in better hands.Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald
114 apprehended that a complaint of breach of privilege must in all
114The Speaker
115 suggested to the hon. chairman of the committee, that after the present motion should be disposed of, it would be his duty to move, that there be laid before the House so much of the minutes of evidence as related to the explanation given in the committee. The House being in possession of that explanation, and hearing any thing further that the party might have to state at the bar, would then be enabled to come to an ulterior decision on the subject. At present the only question before them related to the attendance of the party.115The Speaker
prima facie said, he apprehended that the present was the time at which the House should pronounce, whether the passage in the work adverted to, was or was not a breach of privilege. If not, the author ought not to be called on to attend at the bar. From what had fallen from the hon. chairman of the committee, he did not collect that the committee had inquired into the actual guilt, in that respect of the author of the work. All that the committee had done, which was not unreasonable was, to ascertain before they complained to the House, whether the party advisedly persisted in the expressions that he had used, or whether he was disposed by explanation to do away that which, if unexplained, might be considered by the House a breach of privilege. As matters stood, therefore, it was for the House to determine, aye or no, whether there was a prima facieThe Speaker
 bore testimony to the temperate, impartial, and judicious manner in which the proceedings of the committee had been conducted by the hon. chairman of it.Mr. Shaw Lefevre
116l.l.,l. said, that as there had not been any favourable opportunity of discussing the bill hitherto, owing to the absence of the Irish members, he had intended entering into the measure somewhat at large, previous to moving for the Speaker's leaving, the chair to go into a committee of the whole House upon the bill. In that committee it had been his intention to move, that they should fill up the blanks, and adopt such amendments as might have been suggested; to have proposed the reporting the bill in order to its being re-printed, with the further view of its being re-committed and discussed, when the measure would have been fairly, and fully before the House. However, in consequence of suggestions which had been made to him, by persons of whose judgment he had a higher opinion than of his own, he was now disposed to take another course. Before he mentioned what that course was, he would shortly advert (in consequence of a petition just presented against the bill from the county of Cork) to the situation of that county. Twenty-three gentlemen, or it might be twelve, in the midst of all the bustle and business of an assize, without any previous examination to guide them, take upon themselves to levy money, to an indefinite amount, for various purposes, the items of which were almost innumerable; he conscientiously thought that, with a view of doing justice, they might just as well put the presentments and applications into a hat, and draw out such number as they thought proper. As to the amount of the levies, to show their enormous increase, he stated that he held a document in his hand which showed, that in the four years from 1807 to 1810 inclusive, the levies amounted to something under 48,000116l.l.,l.Mr. Cooper
 assured the worthy baronet, that there were only two offices created by the bill—the one a surveyor, and the other a chief constable. He thanked the House for the manner in which his exertions in this business had been mentioned; he would return to the subject most certainly, but he could not at the moment pledge himself to a specific course of proceeding.Mr. Cooper
 regretted that the bill was given up by the hon. gentleman. He feared that if it were withdrawn, the House would never see so perfect a one again.Mr. Prittie
 wished to ask if it would be improper to defer the motion before them until the alleged libel should be laid on the table, and printed for the consideration of the House?Mr. Wrottesley
113 observed, that the House would have ample opportunities of considering whether the work was a breach of privilege or not. He was totally unacquainted with the parties in the case; but he could not refrain from noticing the peculiarity of the proceedings in the committee. They were unusual, and he believed, without precedent. The committee had entered into the consideration of a breach of privilege. Now, he always thought that it was the duty of a committee of that House, or of an individual member of it, under such circumstances, to make an immediate complaint of the breach of privilege to the House, and to the House alone. He always understood that a committee of that House could never go beyond its instructions. The committee in question was instituted to inquire into the police of the metropolis, and not into the nature of any breach of privilege. Instead of complaining to the House of the breach of privilege committed with respect to them, they called a witness before them, and entered into an investigation of the breach of privilege themselves. They put questions to this witness, not tending to promote the inquiry which they had been appointed to pursue, but to draw from him a confession or a denial of his guilt. He apprehended that committees of that House were not entrusted with inquisitorial powers of that nature. To him it appeared that it would be extremely dangerous, indeed, if committees, instead of coming at once to the House, should enter on such investigations. He was not aware of any instance on record of such a proceeding. If it was contrary to the practice of parliament, it behoved the House
113Mr. Lockhart
 said, that as the present bill was about to be abandoned, it would be unnecessary for him to enter into the merits or demerits of a folio volume of such complex and multifarious matter. He had instructions from the grand jury of his county to watch the bill, and he had done so. They thought that the bill would not effect its professed object; at the same time they admitted, that the laws ought to be amended; they were ready, and so was he, to go hand in hand for that purpose There was one thing in the new bill, against which he would protest; he meant, the creation of 13 or 14 new offices. When the people far and near called for retrenchment, this would be a serious consideration in a country already too much oppressed. The bill went four times beyond the instructions of the committee.Sir F. Flood
120 said, that if the withdrawal of the bill implied the abandonment of a desire to seek a remedy, then, indeed would the people of Ireland have to endure the infliction of the greatest possible evil; for unless the present system were rooted out with a strong hand, and every idea of temporising banished, the system of grand juries must fall to the ground; and so it ought, if it only lived to inflict oppression. The evil in this case fell on the poor peasantry, who were the occupiers of the land; the proprietors felt very little of the evil; in this respect they materially differed from the landed proprietors in this country, whose leases were given for so short a duration of time. He doubted much whether any thing short of a total repeal would answer. Were the Case that of a new set of laws, in which all the parts acted together, there would be little difficulty in the case; but here there was a great deal which could not be separated or got at by any thing short of a total repeal. He was, however, so desirous of getting the House with unanimity to bring forward some measure to remedy this evil, that he would forego his own opinion, and be contented if the following leading points were attended to in the new regulations; first, a special care that the public purse was fairly and honestly made out; secondly, that it was fairly accounted for in the expenditure; and thirdly, that the money was vested in hands perfectly secure. The want of the last was bitterly felt in Ireland. Since the discussion of last summer no less than three treasurers had become bankrupts, and new levies were made on the unfortunate peasantry to repair the deficiencies thus occasioned, because government had not provided sufficient guards for the public purse. So long as these treasurers Were likely to have the use of the public money their creditors never touched them but the moment it was suspected that parliament would interfere in the matter, then their creditors became clamorous, and in the end made them bankrupts.
120Sir John Newport
 said, if persons had purchased tenements without inquiring into the claims for tithes which might be made upon them, that neglect of theirs should not operate to destroy the right of the tithe holder. This was not like the act of the 42d of Elizabeth, a measure affecting the whole of the kingdom, but a local bill which might be drawn into precedent to the injury of other holders of tithes. If a modus was pretended to be established, or if the registration of the award under the statute of Henry 8th were disputed, those were questions to be settled in a court of law. It was remarkable, that two parishes were omitted in the schedule of the bill, one of which, he understood, was the property of the city of London.Mr. Gordon
eo nomine,131130129 rose to address the committee. He observed, that he had uniformly considered the existence, of si-
eo nomine,131130129Mr. Davies Gilbert
144143l.l.l;l.l.,l.,l.l. then stated the sums that might be saved by carrying into effect the abolitions recommended by the committee, as compared with the expenditure to be incurred by the pensions to be created by the recommendation of the same committee. The whole savings, making allowance for the payment of deputies in offices where the deputy was to be continued, would amount to only 51,178144143l.l.l;l.l.,l.,l.l.Mr. Grant
 begged to state, by way of explanation on two points, that he never had said the influence of the Crown had not increased. His argument merely was, that it had not increased beyond the strict necessity of salutary influence; and again, that a necessary measure of economy, which three years ago was warmly supported by the hon. gentlemen opposite, could not be deserving of their opposition at the present time, when the urgency for its adoption was considerably increased.Lord Castlereagh
l.l.l.l.148 was desirous of calling the attention of the committee to one topic which had scarcely been at all touched upon In the course of the discussion—he alluded to the subject of colonial offices. Although two principles had been acknowledged as applicable to the regulations of all such appointments, they had unfortunately not been carried into practice. In the colony of Demerara, where, under the Dutch government, no sinecures were tolerated, and residence was a necessary condition of office, we had established a different principle, and created a sinecure under the name of the vendue master. A variety of emoluments, which poured into the colonial treasury, and would have been sufficient to defray all the expenses of the civil government, had been given to a
l.l.l.l.148Mr. Marryat
 expressed his objection to the abolition of offices of great antiquity in the exchequer, which were always held by persons of high rank, to whom the deputies, who discharged the duties, were bound in great pecuniary responsibility.Mr. Fremantle
 rose only for the purpose of noticing an allusion made by an hon. member to a particular transaction between a principal and deputy, which when the proper time should arrive, he doubted not would receive an explanation that must satisfy every honourable mind; but he thought it very unfair to intrude these individual cases in a debate upon general principles; and the more unfair, because such cases could not possibly exist any longer, a bill having passed three years-ago to compel colonial officers to reside abroad.Mr. Robinson
 in explanation, observed, that he knew not how any argument was to be maintained without particular facts to support it. With regard to the act which had passed for enforcing residence in the colonies, it could only apply to the old colonies, and not to the conquered settlements, in which the offices were necessarily temporary.Mr. Marryat,
 denied that he was the organ of the government, and stated that he had, in a former instance, supported the same principle when it proceeded from the hon. member for Corfe Castle.Mr. D. Gilbert
138137136l.l.l.l.l.l.135l.l. commenced by saying, that though he had on a former occasion, when a bill somewhat similar to the one now proposed went through the House, stated his objections to the principle and object of the measure as then proposed, he was willing to give his support to the measure now before them. He was one of those who distinguished between the old system of administration and the state of things that arose from the war. The power of the Crown, he would admit, had increased since the war began; but, on the return of peace, when the war establishments were reduced, though things could not be restored to the state in which they were before 1792, the power of the Crown was more than proportionably reduced. He denied that the patronage of the Crown was excessive. It was not increased so much as the concurrent circumstances in the frame and action of society required. It was for this reason that he would give his support to the present measure, because it did not bear upon the influence of the Crown; and it was on the same principle that he did not agree with the bill brought in by an hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Bankes.) That bill went to augment the burthens of the country. According to the general scope and principles of that bill, whenever 27,000138137136l.l.l.l.l.l.135l.l.Lord Castlereagh
 protested against the principle laid down by the two last speakers. Many men were drawn from profitable professions, and induced to accept public employments, and it would be very hard if there were no means of compensating them for the loss they might sustain by changes over which they could have no control. But the principle of the proposed bill was not new; it was recognized in the bill which he had introduced for granting remuneration to persons who had held high offices in the government, and which both the noble lord and the hon. and learned gentleman had supported.Mr. Bankes
156 had voted for the bill of 1812, and well recollected that that bill had for its object not only the abolishing of offices, but the granting of compensations. The hon. and learned gentleman had certainly a right to oppose the bill now moved for, and to change his opinion when he pleased; but no artifice of eloquence could reconcile his present with his past opinion, or give him a claim to consistency on this question. The noble lord had acted with more candour. He had with
156Mr. Canning
 did not think that any artifice of eloquence was necessary to prove the consistency of his hon. and learned friend. The bill contained two objects, and all that he had said was, that when they were presented together, he was willing to take the one for the sake of the other. The case was very different when the objectionable proposition was brought forward in a distinct shape. It was, however, very natural that the right hon. gentleman should be an advocate for the right of changing opinion. He knew he had changed his own in a very signal manner—changed it in order to accept office under a noble lord, whom he had intrigued against, with the view of expelling him from the cabinet, on the ground that he was unfit for his high office. It was of course, no way surprising that the right hon. gentleman should be friendly to changes of opinion. He had already made some remarkable change, and a day perhaps was not far distant when he might find it convenient to change again. For his own part, his opinion on this question had undergone no change. He was still for abolishing sinecures, and accompanying the abolitions with compensations. There was not only a great prejudice against sinecures, but also against those who held them, and they could not be got rid of too soon. With regard to pensions, however, the public could never be deceived as to the amount of the emoluments received by those on whom they were bestowed. The state of the pensions ought to be always clearly before the public; and with that view he intended soon to move for lists of all the pensions granted in England, Ireland, and Scotland. It would then be distinctly seen, to what extent the patronage of the Crown went with respect to pensions.Mr. Ponsonby
157 thought the House must acknowledge that the right hon. gentleman had defended his own consistency much better than that of the hon. and learned gentleman near him; but it was extraordinary that in attempting that defence, he should find it necessary to make an attack on his right hon. friend (Mr. Canning). The hon. and learned gentleman had singularly
157The Chancellor of the Exchequer
158** was not a little surprised, upon a question of consistency, to hear a gentleman speak who a few days ago had most unjustifiably brought a charge of the same kind against a private individual,* founded merely upon an anonymous publication. It was singular, too, that he should be the man to complain of the use of coarse epithets, when he had himself branded the same individual, who had no means of personal vindication, as guilty of the basest and most corrupt inconsistency. It was indeed astonishing that he, of all
158**Mr. Peel
134l.l.,133132 expressed his determination to oppose the system recommended by the committee, which was dangerous
134l.l.,133132Mr. Boswell
 compared the different punishments, as proposed at several times by the legislature, for repressing the offence of poaching at night in armed bodies, and expressed his opinion, that transportation for seven years, as inflicted by the act of the last session, was not so severe as the discretionary power previously enjoyed by the justices of the peace, of sentencing offenders to serve for life in condemned regiments. The terror of this punishment, however, had not been found sufficient to deter persons from the offence, and the penalty of transportation was rather meant as a change than an increase of punishment. The efficacy of it had been already proved in Dorset and the neighbouring countries, which, previous to that act, were infested with poachers, but since a conviction under it of three persons, two armed with fire-arms, and one with a bludgeon, there was but one instance of a repetition of the offence. If that bill were altogether repealed, no power would exist of arresting offenders, nor would there be any means of punishing them, but by proceeding against them for the pecuniary penalties enacted by several statutes, and particularly that of the 13th of the king. He should not object to the third reading of the bill, but it appeared to him necessary to have it accompanied with a clause repealing the 39th and 40th of the king.—The bill being accordingly read a third time, the hon. gentleman brought up a clause to repeal the act 39th and 10th of the king, cap. 50, relating to rogues and vagabonds.Mr. George Bankes
154l.l.,153l.l.152l.l.l.151150 assured the committee that he wished to address them for a very short time indeed upon a subject which had been so fully and ably argued by his hon. and learned friend. When he said he believed that his hon. and learned friend's observations had received no answer, he acknowledged that he was not in the House during the speech of a right hon. gentleman (Mr. Huskisson). As, however, the hon. gentlemen on the other side seemed to think it a very triumphant answer, he would now afford them an opportunity of repeating it. His opinion of this committee he had already stated, and he would
154l.l.,153l.l.152l.l.l.151150Mr. Tierney
 said, that he should oppose the bill in all its stages, as it proposed to introduce a new and dangerous principle into the constitution. It was the first time it had ever been attempted to recognize this system of pecuniary reward, and to declare that men were to look to high offices in the state for mercenary consideration.Mr. Brougham
 was in parliament in 1812, when the bill alluded to was brought in, but no separate measure of compensation was then proposed. The object of the bill was the abolition of certain offices, but it contained a clause of compensation to the holders. He, for his part, was content at that time to let the bill pass with the clause rather than lose the great object of abolishing sinecures; he was obliged to agree to the one for the sake of the other; but the case was very different when a distinct bill for compensation was introduced; a shape in which the proposition had never before been submitted to parliament.Mr. Brougham
d.d.s. opposed the bill, and said, the payment in lieu of tithes was not a tax, but an undivided seventh part of the property. The fact was, that at present the lay impropriators and incumbents did not exact the full amount of their rights, for instead of receiving 2d.d.s.Sir James Graham
l.l. said, that the House was not called upon to adopt a new principle of legislation on the present occasion, as it had already interfered twice in such matters, under circumstances somewhat similar. To show the injustice of the present system, he stated that one half of the population of a particular parish paid 130l.l.Alderman Atkins
142l.141140139 said, he had heard the hon. chairman, he had heard another hon. gentleman, and he had heard the noble lord, with every attention in his power, but he entertained a widely different opinion from them all on this subject. He must give the noble lord credit for good fortune, in having got the measure reduced into such a convenient form; but he could not congratulate the hon. gentleman near him, on the success of his bill; far less could he congratulate him on the satisfaction this measure would give to the country. It would afford no degree of satisfaction to any independent mind in that House, or to any intelligent individual in the nation. Least of all could he congratulate the House or the country upon the reasons by which the; noble lord supported the measure, and the degree of support he gave to it. Its recommendations were, that it did not in the slightest degree affect the influence of the Crown; that it effected no economy, though that was the most important consideration at the present period. What, then, were the motives that induced the noble lord to give it his support? Why, because the measure was adapted to the poisoned public mind. It was not by reason, by argument, by conviction, or any such means, that the poisoned mind of the public was to be cured. The noble lord thus went willingly along with prejudices which he represented as pernicious, and, gladly availed himself of the poisoned feeling that existed in the nation. He must, therefore, congratulate the noble lord; he was the only person in the nation entitled to congratulation. He was the more decidedly of this opinion, when he recollected the purposes for which the committee had been appointed. It was, if he had not misconceived the object, to ascertain the state of our income and expenditure, in order to recommend the best measures to be adopted in the frightful situation into which the country had fallen. At the first part of the session the noble lord hurried forward, so that he superseded on the occasion the right hon. chancellor of the exchequer, who was naturally expected to take the lead, to institute a committee to inquire into the circumstances of our situation, and to devise
142l.141140139Mr. J. P. Grant
 said, that if that act were repealed, persons might go about all night in any number, armed in every way for offence and the destruction of game, while no one could have authority to apprehend them, or any remedy exist for their outrages, but the tedious and uncertain process by action. Under Mr. Joddrell's act, any persons found with engines for the destruction of game; by night, might be forthwith apprehended; but it would be highly dangerous to repeal this act, and hold out to the poacher the possibility of going about by night without any danger of apprehension.Mr. Lockhart
d.,s.l.d.s.l.; said, that in the parish where he resided, he had paid tithes by a small rate for years—the same rate, he believed, as had been paid for centuries before; it was so small, that the impropriation had been lately purchased by the church warden for 4,000d.,s.l.d.s.l.;Mr. Butterworth
bona fide124123s.s.s.d.,s.s.d.s.122 addressed the House for the first time. He objected to the bill, as being repugnant to every principle of sound policy and justice. It might be material, he said, to recall to the recollection of the House, that, in the 32nd of Henry 8th an act was passed, intituled "An Act for Tithes for London," the preamble of which expressly stated, that it was, "for appeasing the contentions, strifes, and variances, which had risen and grown within the city of London, and the liberties of the same, between the parsons, vicars, and curates of the said city, and the citizens and inhabitants of the same, for and concerning the payment of tithes, oblations, and other duties, within the said city and liberties." The act then stated, that as
bona fide124123s.s.s.d.,s.s.d.s.122Dr. Phillimore
 hoped the hon. gentleman would withdraw his rider, and that the debate would be adjourned to some other time.Mr. Brand
 supported the proposition of adjournment. He was an advocate for the repeal of the act of last session, because that act authorized magistrates to inflict too severe a sentence upon appearances not fully conclusive of a guilty intention; but yet he could not accede to the repeal of the act alluded to in the clause under discussion, because upon such repeal land-holders or their gamekeepers or other agents would not be allowed to seize men at night who had snares in their possession and were evidently engaged in poaching. Therefore he could not agree to the bill before the House if this clause were attached to it, or rather if a clause were not inserted distinctly authorizing the seizure of poachers at night. He concluded with moving an adjournment of the discussion until this day se'nnight.Mr. F. Lewis
147l.l.146145 was at a loss to see how those who supported the former sinecure bills could oppose this. He thought the hon. and learned gentleman whose speech was so cheered by his friends on the other side, and who now, for the first time after the Easter recess, came to attend his duty in parliament, was not just the person to come forward and accuse the committee
147l.l.146145Mr. Huskisson
 denied that he or his friends could fairly be accused of inconsistency. He objected to this measure, because it definitively fixed the reward of services: whereas, he thought a certain sum ought to be placed at the discretion of the Crown, to be disposed of in that way in the proportions that might be deemed proper.Mr. Lamb
 said, that after what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman who last spoke, the House would not refuse him the opportunity of saying a few words. The reason why the right hon. gentleman had now revived the subject must have been, that he was not present on the former evening; for, had he been in the House, he could not have been guilty of the enormous, the extravagant, misrepresentation with which he had now to charge him. The right hon. gentleman had too much good sense and too much candour to have attributed to him the expressions that had now been employed, when, in truth, what he had said in the previous debate, was merely levelled at the unwarrantable harsh censures applied by a person who found it convenient to change his political opinions, to those who had not thought fit to follow his example. At least, this part of the complaint had not been answered either by the right hon. gentleman or by the individual whose cause he now, for the first time, stood forward to advocate.Mr. W. Smith
 maintained, that the epithets, miserable and unmanly, were not applicable to the conduct of the hon. and and learned gentleman or to any of his hon. friends. He did not feel at all disposed to shrink from any opinion he had formerly expressed, and upon that point he felt exactly as his hon. friends had expressed themselves. He who acted with straight forward uprightness, applying his talents, under particular circumstances, and at particular times, for the public good, could not merit such opprobrious terms as miserable and unmanly. In 1812 he had voted both for the abolition of sinecures and for the clause of compensation, because he hoped, by a smaller evil, to attain a greater good; and in doing so, and in avowing it, he feared the censure of no man, however course might be the expressions he condescended to employ.Mr. W. Smith
 supported this proposition. He regarded the whole question in a more serious light than some gentlemen seemed to do. The habit of poaching lead to the commission of more serious depredations, and ultimately carried on the offenders to robbery and even murder. This had been found to be the case pretty generally in many counties. The offenders soon proceeded to robbing hen roosts, &c. Two men were not long since brought to the gallows for burglary and murder, who ascribed their early misconduct to their habit of poaching. He wished the offence to be looked at in a more general view. The nature and degree of the punishment should be adapted to affect the moral feelings.Mr. W. Smith
126d.,s. in reply to the objection that purchases had been made in expectation of a possibility of establishing the claim for 2126d.,s.Mr. W. Smith,
127 objected to the repeal of the last year's act, and the making such frequent changes in the law of the country without producing any substantial amendment. He could not see such a difference between the bill now proposed and that passed last year, as would justify the repeal of the former: besides which, there were many serious omissions in the measure now under consideration. No difference was made between the crimes
127Sir C. Monck
 hoped the hon. gentleman would withdraw the clause he had moved. If he would do this, and bring forward his proposition by itself, he would give the subject his best attention.Sir E. Knatchbull
d.l. said, that the inequalities of the tithing system throughout London called loudly for the enactment of the present bill. In the parish of Aldgate the tithes had increased within a couple of centuries from a very few pounds to near 4,000d.l.Sir James Shaw
 complained, that the select committee had sat from the 8th of February to the 27th of March, and had done nothing more at last than copy the provisions of a bill introduced by the hon. member for Corfe Castle. The suggestion itself, of one paymaster as sufficient for Ireland, was to be found amongst the recommendations of a former parliamentary commission. Why had not the former parliamentary report, with respect to public offices in Ireland, been honoured with the notice of the committee? That report was drawn up on the spot, with all the advantages of local knowledge; and it was the duty of the committee, if they did not think proper to adopt it, to show in what points it was defective or erroneous. He was satisfied that the pension-list of the three countries were quite adequate to the remuneration of all the ordinary services of government, especially in this time of general distress, and for every purpose, except those special cases of merit which ought to be brought under the consideration of parliament.Sir John Newport
d.s.d. said, that the two parishes omitted in the schedule, were not the property of the city, but of Christ's and Bartholomew's Hospitals. The reason they were omitted was, that they exacted only 2½d.s.d.Sir W. Curtis
121
121Sir W. Curtis
125 said, that the bill was at variance with every principle of law and justice. The decision of the arbitrators appointed agreeably to the statute of Henry 8th, had been duly enrolled and acted on from that time to the present. The law was formed on the express application of the parties concerned. The property now attempted to be called in question was guarded and fenced round by as strong security as there could be around any property whatever. A part of the property was in the hands of lay impropriators, and could not be considered as differing from any other property. The bill was neither more nor less than telling the lay impropriators and incumbents, that they were in future to be shut out from all courts of justice, and to be entirely at the mercy of the magistrates of the city of London. He was little disposed to speak disrespectfully of the magistrates of any place, and least of all of those of the city of London, in which he resided; but he could not consent to give them tire power which this bill went to
125Sir William Scott
l.l,149 said, his objection to the present report was not that it went too far, but that it did not go far enough, and was not founded upon any sound or intelligi-
l.l,149Lord Milton
 said, it was possible that he might have supported the measure to which the hon. gentleman had alluded; but if he had done so, he must now say that he had altered his opinion. When he saw a good reason for changing his opinion, he would never be ashamed to own it. He was not, however, perfectly certain that the bill now produced was the same as the former. The principle of this bill was, that the reward was to depend on, continuance in office, and in that respect he conceived it differed from the other.Lord Milton
155 agreed in opinion with his hon. and learned friend. The remuneration proposed was to depend on continuance in office, and was therefore to be a temptation to political profligacy. If persons were thus to be induced to hold places for the sake of political influence, to go on with the loss of honour and character, they could not be respected by the public, and their continuance in (office would be a curse to the country. Nothing could be more injurious to the public wel-
155Lord Milton
159 presented a Petition from John Hammond, a prisoner in the Fleet, who was committed to that prison on the 28th of November, 1814, for a Contempt of the Court of Chancery, and
159Mr. Bennet
160 could not restrain his feelings on hearing such melancholy cases stated. That a man should be imprison-
160Sir F. Burdett
174173172171170169lll168 said, that as the hon. gentleman had stated the question to the House, he had founded on an historical narrative a charge against ministers of extravagant expenditure, not called for by the expediency of the public service, but highly detrimental to the positive interests of the country. He was happy to meet the charge on these broad and distinct grounds; and if he was not satisfied that the expense in question was perfectly justified by the circumstances that occasioned it, he would not attempt a vindication of the transaction. Considering the situation he held in the government of the country, he hoped he should not incur any charge of presumption if he felt willing to take the whole responsibility of the transaction on himself. At setting out, then, he should disclaim any disingenuousness that might have been imputed to him in the withholding from the House papers and facts more peculiarly within his own
174173172171170169lll168Lord Castlereagh
178177l176175 observed, that if it was the object of the noble lord, as it seemed to be, to involve the question before the House in obscurity, so as to withdraw attention from the real merits of the case, no failure had, he believed, been more complete than that which had been witnessed upon the present occasion. To the clear, distinct and able statement of the hon. mover, the noble lord had, indeed, made a most inefficient reply; for as to the noble lord's explanation of the mistake so casually committed with respect to the production of a certain letter, that mistake was in fact of no consequence to the merits of the question, whether the prince regent of the Brazils really intended to return to Portugal at the time the appointment under consideration took place. Upon this subject it appeared that a very intelligible hint was communicated to ministers, with regard to the Regent's intention, which they intirely slighted; for notwithstanding that hint, the right hon. gentleman was appointed ambassador to Lisbon for the professed purpose of receiving the Regent, at a considerable expense to this country. The noble lord had talked a good deal about the state of Europe, in order to show the necessity of this appointment; but upon this point he could not distinctly understand what the noble lord meant; for he had stated no reasons, grounded upon what he called the state of Europe, to justify such an expensive appointment. Indeed, the noble lord had offered no reasons upon the subject, and therefore he was a very incompetent advocate. But although a bad advocate, the noble lord, it must be confessed, had presented some striking characteristics of a good christian, for he had spoken well of those who had spoken ill of him—and had treated those kindly who had despitefully used him; he had, indeed, returned good for evil [a laugh, and Hear, hear!]. Such an instance of christian disposition had, indeed, been rarely, if ever, witnessed in the history of political men. The noble lord had, however, evinced nothing of the hu-
178177l176175Sir Francis Burdett
 felt himself called upon to state to the House a few facts connected with the present question, which were within his own personal observation while stationed off the Brazils. In the month of September, the prince regent of Portugal desired him to wait at the Brazils as his royal highness intended to return in his ship to Lisbon, and only waited the arrival of dispatches from thence, to fix the time of his departure. Soon afterwards there was an arrival from Lisbon, upon which he waited on the prince to know his intentions. His royal highness said, that he waited the arrival of further dispatches, and desired him still to wait at the Rio. Soon after this time he (Admiral B.) was in very bad health, so that he could not personally attend on the prince; however, after some further time he sent to know the pleasure of the prince when he was again desired to wait, as his royal highness daily expected dispatches, which would induce him to go to Lisbon in his ship. The prince was then so fully determined to go, that he asked to be informed in what time the passage to Lisbon might be made. It was not till the 6th of April that the prince sent him a final answer that he had determined not to go. But for these circumstances, and the constant expression of the prince, until the month of April, of his intention to return to Lisbon, he could assure the House that no consideration would have induced him to wait at the Rio, for even five days after his arrival there.Admiral Beresford
223222221220219218217216£ 14,236And the gross nominal issues at the treasury to meet the recommendation of the committee, for the first year of the new envoy, must have been
£ 14,236And the gross nominal issues at the treasury to meet the recommendation of the committee, for the first year of the new envoy, must have been500Add the allowance for House-rent (to which by the way might be added 12 per cent, for loss on exchange, &c.
500Add the allowance for House-rent (to which by the way might be added 12 per cent, for loss on exchange, &c.4,000Add to this sum the allowance for outfit
4,000Add to this sum the allowance for outfit£.9,736shows that the gross issue at the Treasury must have been about
£.9,736shows that the gross issue at the Treasury must have been about8,180which, added to
8,180which, added to£.1,556would be about
£.1,556would be about
£ 14,236And the gross nominal issues at the treasury to meet the recommendation of the committee, for the first year of the new envoy, must have been
£ 14,236And the gross nominal issues at the treasury to meet the recommendation of the committee, for the first year of the new envoy, must have been500Add the allowance for House-rent (to which by the way might be added 12 per cent, for loss on exchange, &c.
500Add the allowance for House-rent (to which by the way might be added 12 per cent, for loss on exchange, &c.4,000Add to this sum the allowance for outfit
4,000Add to this sum the allowance for outfit£.9,736shows that the gross issue at the Treasury must have been about
£.9,736shows that the gross issue at the Treasury must have been about8,180which, added to
8,180which, added to£.1,556would be about
£.1,556would be aboutll£.8,180gives
£.8,180gives7,200which being added to
7,200which being added to£.980The first addition to be made is that of the amount necessary to cover the average loss of something more than 12 per cent, by exchange and paper-money: this would be about
£.980The first addition to be made is that of the amount necessary to cover the average loss of something more than 12 per cent, by exchange and paper-money: this would be about
£.8,180gives
£.8,180gives7,200which being added to
7,200which being added to£.980The first addition to be made is that of the amount necessary to cover the average loss of something more than 12 per cent, by exchange and paper-money: this would be about
£.980The first addition to be made is that of the amount necessary to cover the average loss of something more than 12 per cent, by exchange and paper-money: this would be aboutllll215ll214lllllllllllllllllll213llllllllll£.14,200Total
£.14,200Total6,000Extraordinaries, not to exceed
6,000Extraordinaries, not to exceed£.8,200Salary
£.8,200Salary
£.14,200Total
£.14,200Total6,000Extraordinaries, not to exceed
6,000Extraordinaries, not to exceed£.8,200Salary
£.8,200Salary212211210ll209208lllllll207206ll205twohis204lvictuslllll00£ 9,700The result of cost to the public, for the half-year intervening between sir C. Stuart's mission and mine, is therefore
00£ 9,700The result of cost to the public, for the half-year intervening between sir C. Stuart's mission and mine, is therefore002,500Add to this sum, Mr. Casamajor's extraordinaries for the same period
002,500Add to this sum, Mr. Casamajor's extraordinaries for the same period00£ 7,200In all
00£ 7,200In all002,000and lastly he received (at a subsequent period) for losses occasioned by his sudden relinquishment of the mission
002,000and lastly he received (at a subsequent period) for losses occasioned by his sudden relinquishment of the mission001,100he received for his journey to Lisbon
001,100he received for his journey to Lisbon001,500he received also, for outfit,
001,500he received also, for outfit,00£ 2,600lquarters salary at the rate of 5,200l
00£ 2,600lquarters salary at the rate of 5,200l
00£ 9,700The result of cost to the public, for the half-year intervening between sir C. Stuart's mission and mine, is therefore
00£ 9,700The result of cost to the public, for the half-year intervening between sir C. Stuart's mission and mine, is therefore002,500Add to this sum, Mr. Casamajor's extraordinaries for the same period
002,500Add to this sum, Mr. Casamajor's extraordinaries for the same period00£ 7,200In all
00£ 7,200In all002,000and lastly he received (at a subsequent period) for losses occasioned by his sudden relinquishment of the mission
002,000and lastly he received (at a subsequent period) for losses occasioned by his sudden relinquishment of the mission001,100he received for his journey to Lisbon
001,100he received for his journey to Lisbon001,500he received also, for outfit,
001,500he received also, for outfit,00£ 2,600lquarters salary at the rate of 5,200l
00£ 2,600lquarters salary at the rate of 5,200l203ll202£31,206Total
£31,206Total5,200Salary
5,200Salary£ 26,006For the next year, from the 5th of April, 1813, to the 5th of April, 1814, the extraordinaries are stated at
£ 26,006For the next year, from the 5th of April, 1813, to the 5th of April, 1814, the extraordinaries are stated at
£31,206Total
£31,206Total5,200Salary
5,200Salary£ 26,006For the next year, from the 5th of April, 1813, to the 5th of April, 1814, the extraordinaries are stated at
£ 26,006For the next year, from the 5th of April, 1813, to the 5th of April, 1814, the extraordinaries are stated at£32,007Total
£32,007Total5,200Salary
5,200Salary£26,807For the year, from the 5th of April, 18–12, to the 5th of April, 1813, sir Charles Stuart's extraordinaries appear to have been
£26,807For the year, from the 5th of April, 18–12, to the 5th of April, 1813, sir Charles Stuart's extraordinaries appear to have been
£32,007Total
£32,007Total5,200Salary
5,200Salary£26,807For the year, from the 5th of April, 18–12, to the 5th of April, 1813, sir Charles Stuart's extraordinaries appear to have been
£26,807For the year, from the 5th of April, 18–12, to the 5th of April, 1813, sir Charles Stuart's extraordinaries appear to have been201quo animo200à priori199198did197llll196ll195194193192191190189188187186185184got up183all182181180179 rose, and spoke nearly as follows:—223222221220219218217216£ 14,236And the gross nominal issues at the treasury to meet the recommendation of the committee, for the first year of the new envoy, must have been
£ 14,236And the gross nominal issues at the treasury to meet the recommendation of the committee, for the first year of the new envoy, must have been500Add the allowance for House-rent (to which by the way might be added 12 per cent, for loss on exchange, &c.
500Add the allowance for House-rent (to which by the way might be added 12 per cent, for loss on exchange, &c.4,000Add to this sum the allowance for outfit
4,000Add to this sum the allowance for outfit£.9,736shows that the gross issue at the Treasury must have been about
£.9,736shows that the gross issue at the Treasury must have been about8,180which, added to
8,180which, added to£.1,556would be about
£.1,556would be about
£ 14,236And the gross nominal issues at the treasury to meet the recommendation of the committee, for the first year of the new envoy, must have been
£ 14,236And the gross nominal issues at the treasury to meet the recommendation of the committee, for the first year of the new envoy, must have been500Add the allowance for House-rent (to which by the way might be added 12 per cent, for loss on exchange, &c.
500Add the allowance for House-rent (to which by the way might be added 12 per cent, for loss on exchange, &c.4,000Add to this sum the allowance for outfit
4,000Add to this sum the allowance for outfit£.9,736shows that the gross issue at the Treasury must have been about
£.9,736shows that the gross issue at the Treasury must have been about8,180which, added to
8,180which, added to£.1,556would be about
£.1,556would be aboutll£.8,180gives
£.8,180gives7,200which being added to
7,200which being added to£.980The first addition to be made is that of the amount necessary to cover the average loss of something more than 12 per cent, by exchange and paper-money: this would be about
£.980The first addition to be made is that of the amount necessary to cover the average loss of something more than 12 per cent, by exchange and paper-money: this would be about
£.8,180gives
£.8,180gives7,200which being added to
7,200which being added to£.980The first addition to be made is that of the amount necessary to cover the average loss of something more than 12 per cent, by exchange and paper-money: this would be about
£.980The first addition to be made is that of the amount necessary to cover the average loss of something more than 12 per cent, by exchange and paper-money: this would be aboutllll215ll214lllllllllllllllllll213llllllllll£.14,200Total
£.14,200Total6,000Extraordinaries, not to exceed
6,000Extraordinaries, not to exceed£.8,200Salary
£.8,200Salary
£.14,200Total
£.14,200Total6,000Extraordinaries, not to exceed
6,000Extraordinaries, not to exceed£.8,200Salary
£.8,200Salary212211210ll209208lllllll207206ll205twohis204lvictuslllll00£ 9,700The result of cost to the public, for the half-year intervening between sir C. Stuart's mission and mine, is therefore
00£ 9,700The result of cost to the public, for the half-year intervening between sir C. Stuart's mission and mine, is therefore002,500Add to this sum, Mr. Casamajor's extraordinaries for the same period
002,500Add to this sum, Mr. Casamajor's extraordinaries for the same period00£ 7,200In all
00£ 7,200In all002,000and lastly he received (at a subsequent period) for losses occasioned by his sudden relinquishment of the mission
002,000and lastly he received (at a subsequent period) for losses occasioned by his sudden relinquishment of the mission001,100he received for his journey to Lisbon
001,100he received for his journey to Lisbon001,500he received also, for outfit,
001,500he received also, for outfit,00£ 2,600lquarters salary at the rate of 5,200l
00£ 2,600lquarters salary at the rate of 5,200l
00£ 9,700The result of cost to the public, for the half-year intervening between sir C. Stuart's mission and mine, is therefore
00£ 9,700The result of cost to the public, for the half-year intervening between sir C. Stuart's mission and mine, is therefore002,500Add to this sum, Mr. Casamajor's extraordinaries for the same period
002,500Add to this sum, Mr. Casamajor's extraordinaries for the same period00£ 7,200In all
00£ 7,200In all002,000and lastly he received (at a subsequent period) for losses occasioned by his sudden relinquishment of the mission
002,000and lastly he received (at a subsequent period) for losses occasioned by his sudden relinquishment of the mission001,100he received for his journey to Lisbon
001,100he received for his journey to Lisbon001,500he received also, for outfit,
001,500he received also, for outfit,00£ 2,600lquarters salary at the rate of 5,200l
00£ 2,600lquarters salary at the rate of 5,200l203ll202£31,206Total
£31,206Total5,200Salary
5,200Salary£ 26,006For the next year, from the 5th of April, 1813, to the 5th of April, 1814, the extraordinaries are stated at
£ 26,006For the next year, from the 5th of April, 1813, to the 5th of April, 1814, the extraordinaries are stated at
£31,206Total
£31,206Total5,200Salary
5,200Salary£ 26,006For the next year, from the 5th of April, 1813, to the 5th of April, 1814, the extraordinaries are stated at
£ 26,006For the next year, from the 5th of April, 1813, to the 5th of April, 1814, the extraordinaries are stated at£32,007Total
£32,007Total5,200Salary
5,200Salary£26,807For the year, from the 5th of April, 18–12, to the 5th of April, 1813, sir Charles Stuart's extraordinaries appear to have been
£26,807For the year, from the 5th of April, 18–12, to the 5th of April, 1813, sir Charles Stuart's extraordinaries appear to have been
£32,007Total
£32,007Total5,200Salary
5,200Salary£26,807For the year, from the 5th of April, 18–12, to the 5th of April, 1813, sir Charles Stuart's extraordinaries appear to have been
£26,807For the year, from the 5th of April, 18–12, to the 5th of April, 1813, sir Charles Stuart's extraordinaries appear to have been201quo animo200à priori199198did197llll196ll195194193192191190189188187186185184got up183all182181180179Mr. Canning
 said, it was a mere mockery to talk of presenting petitions to the court. Some of them had no means of doing this, and to others no attention whatever had been paid. Their cases were well known, and they ought to be restored to liberty [Hear, hear!].Mr. Bennet
 was of opinion, that the right hon. gentleman had completely cleared himself from all the charges that had been brought against him in a pecuniary point of view; and if it was necessary to send an ambassador to Lisbon, he could see no reason why the right hon. gentleman should not have been sent. It would, however, in his opinion, have been more consistent if government had sent their ambassador to the Brazils.Mr. Gordon
 agreed that the right hon. gentleman could not be considered as a principal in the fault of this transaction. His vote in support of the motion would be given upon the ground that the embassy itself was not a necessary measure. If the prince regent had arrived, the appointment might have been justified; but, under all the circumstances, he could not but think that the appointment was premature.Mr. Abercrombie
 said, that he would content himself by stating two facts on the present occasion: the one was, that he had not solicited a place in the cabinet at the time alluded to; and though he could not substantiate the fact by parliamentary evidence, he could yet satisfy any private gentleman, that so far from seeking a seat in the cabinet, no consideration would at the time have detained him in the country. As to the declaration of count Funchal, all he would say was, that that personage furnished sir J. Beresford with a list of the individuals who were likely to return to Europe with the prince regent of the Brazils.Mr. Canning
 said, that he had not used the term peculation in its common and gross sense; but as the appointment was the result of a political negociation between the parties for their own interests, he still regarded it as what he had already stated it to be, namely, a pecuniary job.Sir F. Burdett
232lllll231230 disclaimed all personal hostility against the right hon. gentleman, but maintained that, notwithstanding all the glosses in the right hon. gentleman's speech; no doubt would exist out of doors, whatever there might be within, that if there had been a vacancy in the cabinet at the time he was sent as an ambassador to Lisbon, no ambassador would have been sent. And yet if ever there was a coalition that ought to be distrusted, it was that which had taken place between the noble lord and the right hon. gentleman, the former difference between whom had arisen, not on any ground which time and circumstances might change, but because the right hon. gentleman thought the noble lord not wise enough for a cabinet minister, and the noble lord had other reasons for declining the right hon. gentleman as a coadjutor. He certainly regretted that the right hon. gentleman had so entangled himself in this affair. The public money had unquestionably been unnecessarily expended, for he was convinced no man
232lllll231230Mr. Tierney
l228bona fide227llll226225224 declared, that he was not one of those to whom the right hon. gentleman could have alluded, as hanging back in his accusation. The charge must have applied to some one, but he was at a loss to determine who was meant. His hon. friend who made the present motion had Stated the accusation fully and fairly; he was answered by the noble lord opposite; what the noble lord had said was replied to by the hon. baronet. There was then a dead pause in the House—nothing being offered to be said on the other side. Was the accusation to be repeated without hearing any defence? Were the common forms of the House to be departed from on this occasion, and were he and his friends to be accused of want of candour for following the usual course recommended by common convenience and general experience He did not hold back, and he was sure his hon. friends did not. If he now came forward, he did not bring any new charges; he would not state a tittle that had not previously been stated; and if he travelled out of the accusation, he begged he might be stopped. He would tell the right hon. gentleman that he was not his accuser; that he stood there in a different capacity. The accusation was already made; the defence had been heard, and he, with the House, was now to act as judges. The noble lord against whose administration this charge was principally directed, although the right hon. gentleman was deeply involved in it, began with a remark about suppressing one of the documents moved for. His hon. friend had brought no such charge, but merely alleged that it had been kept back till other papers, calculated to do away its effect, were brought forward with it. The hon. and learned gentleman here proved his allegation by different references to the date of the papers, and then
l228bona fide227llll226225224Mr. Brougham
3. "That such an appointment, on such a scale of expense, appears to this House inconsistent with the recorded declaration in lord Castlereagh's dispatch to Mr. Sydenham, of the 18th of July 1814; was uncalled for by any change in the circumstances of the mission subsequent to Mr. Sydenham's appointment; and has been attended with an unnecessary and unjustifiable waste of the public money."llll2. "That it appears that under the pretence of congratulating the prince of Brazil, on his return to his native dominions, the right hon. George Canning was appointed ambassador extraordinary to the court of Lisbon, with the increased emoluments and allowances belonging to that character, viz. 8,200lllll1671. "That it appears to this House, that on the 18th of July 1814, lord viscount Castlereagh addressed an official dispatch to Thomas Sydenham, esq., then his majesty's minister at Lisbon, acquainting him that it was the command of his royal
l167
3. "That such an appointment, on such a scale of expense, appears to this House inconsistent with the recorded declaration in lord Castlereagh's dispatch to Mr. Sydenham, of the 18th of July 1814; was uncalled for by any change in the circumstances of the mission subsequent to Mr. Sydenham's appointment; and has been attended with an unnecessary and unjustifiable waste of the public money."llll2. "That it appears that under the pretence of congratulating the prince of Brazil, on his return to his native dominions, the right hon. George Canning was appointed ambassador extraordinary to the court of Lisbon, with the increased emoluments and allowances belonging to that character, viz. 8,200lllll1671. "That it appears to this House, that on the 18th of July 1814, lord viscount Castlereagh addressed an official dispatch to Thomas Sydenham, esq., then his majesty's minister at Lisbon, acquainting him that it was the command of his royal
l167166ll165lll164evidentia rei163162161ex-parte in rising to submit a motion to the House on the subject of the Mission to Lisbon, said, that if ever there was a subject which deserved the consideration of the House, it was that which he had now to bring before them. It was one which had occupied the attention, and drawn down the reprobation of the public from the very first moment of its occurrence; but that feeling had been strengthened by the disclosures which had lately been made of the communications which had taken place on the subject of the Portuguese embassy, previously to the appointment of the right hon. gentleman. He could not here avoid remarking on the ineffectual attempt to withhold the communications with Mr. Sydenham, and thus to give a most unfair 3. "That such an appointment, on such a scale of expense, appears to this House inconsistent with the recorded declaration in lord Castlereagh's dispatch to Mr. Sydenham, of the 18th of July 1814; was uncalled for by any change in the circumstances of the mission subsequent to Mr. Sydenham's appointment; and has been attended with an unnecessary and unjustifiable waste of the public money."llll2. "That it appears that under the pretence of congratulating the prince of Brazil, on his return to his native dominions, the right hon. George Canning was appointed ambassador extraordinary to the court of Lisbon, with the increased emoluments and allowances belonging to that character, viz. 8,200lllll1671. "That it appears to this House, that on the 18th of July 1814, lord viscount Castlereagh addressed an official dispatch to Thomas Sydenham, esq., then his majesty's minister at Lisbon, acquainting him that it was the command of his royal
l167
3. "That such an appointment, on such a scale of expense, appears to this House inconsistent with the recorded declaration in lord Castlereagh's dispatch to Mr. Sydenham, of the 18th of July 1814; was uncalled for by any change in the circumstances of the mission subsequent to Mr. Sydenham's appointment; and has been attended with an unnecessary and unjustifiable waste of the public money."llll2. "That it appears that under the pretence of congratulating the prince of Brazil, on his return to his native dominions, the right hon. George Canning was appointed ambassador extraordinary to the court of Lisbon, with the increased emoluments and allowances belonging to that character, viz. 8,200lllll1671. "That it appears to this House, that on the 18th of July 1814, lord viscount Castlereagh addressed an official dispatch to Thomas Sydenham, esq., then his majesty's minister at Lisbon, acquainting him that it was the command of his royal
l167166ll165lll164evidentia rei163162161ex-parteMr. Lambton,
234 rose to reply.—He observed, that it would be useless in him to detain them for any length of time, after they had so plainly manifested their desire to proceed to a division—it would be presumptuous in him to expect to succeed in dispelling the noise and clamour which had been prevailing from the conclusion of the right hon. gentleman's'(Mr. Canning's) speech. He should, therefore, merely notice some misrepresentations which affected him personally. The right hon. gentleman had, for what purposes he knew not, grossly misrepresented him; when the right hon. gentleman stated that he had alluded to the personal differences which had existed between the right hon. gentleman and the noble lord (Castlereagh). He appealed to the House whether such was the fact. He had carefully avoided every thing which could convey the most remote allusion to that subject, in introducing his resolutions to the notice of the House.—He also thought it incumbent on him to notice what had fallen from some gentleman on his own side of the House. He begged leave to inform the noble lord (Milton) and the hon. member (Mr. Gordon) that, with every sense of the obligation they had so kindly conferred on him in disclaiming his motion, he could not accede to their mode of reasoning—their arguments had nothing whatever to do with the question. The question was, not
234Mr. Lambton
 observed, that every body must know the lord chancellor had a very unpleasant duty to perform on these occasions. It was, however, his official duty in which he could not suffer his private feelings to interfere. If these persons were to present a petition to the court, stating that they had purged their contempts as well as they could, there could be no doubt that the learned lord would do every thing in his power to relieve them.Sir J. Simeon
 supported the motion, and contended, that the mission was not at all necessary.Mr. Warre
 was satisfied that the charge had been fully substantiated against the government, who had, it appeared, not only deceived the country, but the right hon. gentleman.Mr. Sharp
233 observed, that an hon. baronet had stated, that whenever this subject should be brought forward, he would apply to it the term "peculation." After the defence which the House had heard; after the full and satisfactory explanation of all the circumstances which had been given; he should have expected that common candour would have induced the hon. baronet to get up and disavow that epithet as far as possible. He must say that, after what had passed, he should
233Mr. Cartwright
 thought it a great hardship that persons, after purging the contempt, should be detained in confinement for costs. He saw no reason why the provisions of the insolvent debtor's act should not be extended to these cases, as well as to all those of common law.Mr. Lamb
 did not think either the appointment by his majesty's ministers, or the acceptance of it by the right hon. gentleman, justifiable at the time it was made, and could not perceive any grounds on which it could be defended. He was farther of opinion, that considering the circumstances in which the right hon. gentleman stood towards the noble lord, the transaction was not one which was creditable to him.Mr. Lyttelton
 was desirous of stating the precise grounds of his vote. He did not entirely agree with his hon. friend who had last spoken. He considered the resolutions as resolutions of censure on the appointment of the embassy to Lisbon, and not on the acceptance of that appointment. On that ground alone he voted for them; for he thought that the right hon. gentleman was bound to believe the representations which had been made to him of the necessity of the embassy. He did not conceive, however, that ministers were justified in the appointment, and he considered it a waste of the public money.Sir James Mackintosh
 was confident that the candour of the hon. baronet would not permit him to hesitate in pronouncing the full acquittal of a person accused, whom he had discovered to be innocent. He did not know what the hon. baronet meant by his concluding words, in which he denominated the transaction under consideration a pecuniary job. He did not think that such terms could be fairly applied to it, after the defence which had been heard. After a speech so eloquent, which had thrilled through every heart in the House, he would have been proud to have been so accused, in order to have so defended himself.Sir T. Acland
229 thought the House and the country indebted to his hon. friend who had brought forward the present motion, because it was important that the characters of public men should be understood; and he did not think they would have been so well understood but for the discussion which had taken place. He was not ashamed to confess himself a party man; and to own, that he was not vain enough to suppose himself gifted with a wisdom superior to all other men. He had, however, endeavoured to bring to this question the most impartial disposition and judgment that he could command. He had listened attentively to all the different speeches which had been made; and the result was, that he could not conscientiously agree with his hon. friends in the vote of censure which they had proposed. Much as he rejoiced at the right hon. gentleman's acquittal, he felt great concern at the necessity of differing from his hon. and learned friends; but he could not forget that he had a higher duty to perform. He desired at the same time to say, that he could not acquit the right
229Lord Milton
 said, he held in his hand a Petition from the merchants, factors, warehousemen and others in the city of London, engaged in the trade of Cotton piece goods. The petitioners stated, that their trade was at present in a dreadful state of depression. This was, no doubt, owing to a combination of causes; but one of the most important was the unrestricted exportation of cotton yarn. This, in the opinion of the petitioners, was giving an encouragement to foreign manufacturers at the expense of our own. He should have moved for a select committee to examine into this subject, but he was deterred from so doing, not because the petitioners could not prove their case to the satisfaction of any committee, but because the period of the session was so much advanced, that no report on the subject could be received before the prorogation of parliament.Sir Oswald Mosely
 rose to order. It had already been determined that the gentleman in question should be ordered to attend. When the House had heard what the individual had to say, any thing might with propriety be urged in his favour.Mr. Wynn
 said, he was sure he would be the last man in the House who would be wanting in support of the right hon. gentleman as to any case where the authority of the House or of any of its committees was reviled or impeached. But then it was to be considered that each case must rest on its own particular grounds; and that there could be nothing more injurious than, when anyone case was brought forward, to say that there were such and such other libels against other committees, which were equally atrocious, and yet had not been punished. Certainly, he had often seen in the public prints attacks on the privileges of the House, which he regretted had been passed over by the House. But here was a case which impeached the authority of a committee while exercising one of the most important functions of the House, namely, its inquisitorial power. The charge made against the committee was that of gross partiality. It had been determined by the committee, that this attack upon it should be noticed to the House, and it was in his capacity of chairman of the committee, and not as coming forward to express his individual opinion, that the hon. gentleman brought forward the subject. The case therefore was this: One of the committees of the House called upon the House for protection of its privileges. This call was entered and recorded on the journals of the House. The libel was acknowledged by its author. His attendance was ordered by the House; and now, if he was not called to the bar, the House would virtually acknowledge that the imputation which he had cast upon the committee was well founded.Mr. Wynn
 said, that he never understood his right hon. friend to have uttered any thing in bar of the free communication between that House and the people. He had merely called the attention of the House to the general nature of the offence of which the individual stood charged, and had desired to know how far the House was prepared to go in the general repression of such offences. His right hon. friend had only intimated, that committees on one side of the House as well as another, might be treated with this sort of disrespect, and the chairman be compelled to undertake the painful duty of self-vindication. If the press was to be brought to entertain a proper respect for the privileges of parliament, he begged leave to remind the hon. gentlemen opposite, that the first suggestion for the rigorous exercise of authority for this purpose, did not commence on his side of the House.Lord Castlereagh
248 considered nothing more injurious to the House than to adopt a very strict conduct as to publications which noticed their proceedings. He did not distinctly understand this offence, but he understood that Mr. Thirlwall had printed and published animadversions which tended to impeach the conduct of a committee of that House; and that the committee had in consequence sent for him to explain himself. He could not tell whether
248Mr. Ponsonby
249pro tanto had no wish to object to this gentleman's being called in. Nevertheless, he approved of his right hon. friend's course, in the present stage of the proceeding rather than in a later one; for in comparatively a new course of proceeding, the House ought, at its outset, to mark the manner in which they were generally prepared to act. As to the distinction attempted to be made between this case and other libels, he thought it to be without a shadow of foundation. How did the libel obstruct the course of justice in the sense that had been alluded to? It referred to the last year's proceeding of a committee which had completed its labours—[Cries of "No!"]. They had reported, and for that year, at least, their labours were completed. Under such circumstances Mr. Thirlwall published a book, intituled "A Vindication of the Magistrates, &c." This book was published early in the year, and before the committee was reinstituted. Their labours, then, could not be said to have been impeded, as they were not pending at the time. The report had been already delivered in, and was, 249pro tantoMr. Canning
 then addressed the House to the following effect:—"I hope that this honourable House will do me the justice to believe, that it is with the deepest concern and regret that I find I have trespassed on its rights or privileges by any writings of mine. What I did write, I beg to assure the House, was not calculated readily to meet the public eye in the form in which it was shaped. The offensive passages occurred in a work written in very great haste, and solely intended to vindicate the character of the magistrates and my own from the obloquy cast on both by passages in that part of the report of a committee of this House, which detailed the evidence of witnesses necessarily examined before that honourable committee. If, in my ardent wishes in pursuit of this object, I was unfortunately carried out of the proper path of respect to this honourable House, I have to express my regret for so offending. It is now my anxious wish to express the regret I sincerely feel for my conduct towards this hon. House, and the hon. committee; and, trusting in the clemency of this hon. House, I venture to hope and petition, that its sentence, whatever it may be, will not be such as may degrade my character as a magistrate and a clergyman."Mr. Thirlwall
 said, that he had no inclination to press for any severity upon this occasion; such a proceeding would indeed be totally inconsistent with his disposition and habits: but he thougt it necessary that the House should come to some resolution with respect to the publication alluded to.Mr. Bennet
252 said, that though there could be no doubt that the writings of the rev. gentleman had amounted o a
252Lord Castlereagh
250 rose to notice an observation of the noble lord, which he thought might as well have been spared. For it was a mistake to suppose that, in the conduct of the committee which was the object of the calumny under consideration, he was influenced by any political prejudice or feeling. On the contrary, indeed, he declined to avail himself of some information tendered to him with respect to an institution connected with the object of the committee, because he apprehended that to inquire into the conduct of that institution, might serve to give the proceedings of the committee rather too much of a political complexion. Then, as to the remarks of the noble lord, that the first attack upon the freedom of the press proceeded from that side of the House e protested against any such imputation, for he knew that it was totally inapplicable. But to revert to the motives attributed to himself and the committee in which he had the honour to preside. Against the charge of the noble lord, he could refer to the gentlemen who had witnessed his conduct in the committee,
250Mr. Bennet
 disclaimed any intention of imputing partiality or political prejudice to the hon. gentleman, or to the committee alluded to. As to the report of the committee, he did not speak unfavourably of it, and he had read it throughout; and as to the writer under consideration, he really did not know him or his connexions. But he did observe, that the attempt to restrain the press from animadverting upon the proceedings of the House, originated on that side with which the hon. member was connected, although it was notorious that so much more provocation was offered in another quarter. But as the example was now given, he hoped the principle originated by the other side of the House would not be partially, but generally and justly acted upon.Lord Castlereagh
 was of opinion that the rev. gentleman had done every thing that was in the power of man to do. He had expressed his contrition in terms at once manly and respectful; and this was all that could be wished for. He therefore thought that the slightest testimony of displeasure which the House could express towards him would be sufficient.Mr. Wynn
 then moved, "That the rev. Thomas Thirlwall, by the said publication, has reflected upon the proceedings and authority of a committee of this House, and is thereby guilty of a high contempt of the authority of this House, and a breach of its privileges."Mr. Bennet
255 could
255The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l was satisfied there was not a gentleman in that House more attached to the interests of the country and the prosperity of its commerce than his hon. friend. He did not know the precise object he had in view by the present motion: yet knowing his zeal to serve the country, and the good he had already done, he could not with-hold his support. How many motions of his honourable friend had been opposed as dangerous to the interests of commerce, incompetent for that House, and even injurious to the character and prosperity of the country? and yet how many of those very motions were afterwards complied with, and found most beneficial. When he recollected this— when he had seen how much good he had done—when he considered that he had saved 90,000lMr. Ponsonby
257 rose, pursuant to notice, to move, "That a committee be appointed to consider of the best means for shortening the Duration of Polls, and for the further regulation of Elections in Great Britain." Originally, no regulation whatever existed on this subject, and the sheriff might exercise his discretion in continuing the polls; and thence arose the practice of continu-
257Mr. Wynn
 said, that, if the explanation of the right hon. gentleman did not go far enough to induce the hon. and learned gentleman to withdraw his motion, he thought the statement of the facts which judicially came before the worthy magistrate would have that effect. Nothing could alter the painful circumstances of the case—which were hardly felt more deeply by the individual herself than by the court before whom she was tried; but it evidently appeared, that it was a principle of clemency, and not of inhumanity, that brought the trial on at the time when it took place.Lord Castlereagh
 said, the unfortunate woman had been indicted a considerable time before she was brought to trial, and great negligence was apparent in not applying to the attorney-general or the government to stay the prosecution, when it was known that her husband's death-warrant had been sent down on the Saturday before her trial took place. This was an inexplicable piece of negligence on the part of those who had the superintendence of the gaol. The poor woman might also have escaped by another mode: it was in the power of the magistrates to advise the prosecutor not to call witnesses, and thus the matter would have been put an end to.Mr. Ponsonby
 intimated, that as the hon. and learned gentleman still wished for the production of the papers, he should not oppose the motion.Lord Castlereagh
 said, if the hon. gentleman was aware he was out of order, it was to be hoped he would avoid a repetition of the disorderly expression.The Speaker
 said, that though it was an order of the day that the rev. Mr. Thirlwall do attend, yet, on the question that he be called in, it was competent for any member to make any further remarks.The Speaker
 said, it might be proper first to hear what the party had to say for himself; the House would then be able to decide on the whole question.The Speaker
 stated to him, that he was charged with printing and publishing a book, reflecting upon the character of a committee of that House, and violating its privileges, and that after the passage complained of was read, what he had to offer in his own behalf would then be heard.The Speaker
251 bore ample testimony to the hon. member's fair and impartial conduct in the chair of that committee. Throughout the investigation that conduct was marked with the utmost liberality and candour, and in one instance in particular he had seen enough of it to be satisfied
251Mr. Barclay
 said, that when so great a tenacity was shewn of the privileges of the House, that a person who in any publication made reflections on the proceedings of a committee was to be called to the bar, he wished to know how far the House was disposed to go, with regard to other reflections on the House!Mr. Bathurst
244 said, that though an order had been made for the attendance of the gentleman in question, it was competent for them to relax. What he wished to state was, that notwithstanding the attack upon the proceedings of the committee was censurable, there were other animadversions on the proceedings of other committees, and on the House itself, which had been passed over. He held an extract from a publication in his hand, respecting another committee: — "The aim and object of this committee of placemen is to find reasons, not for the reduction, but for the continuance and preservation of as much establishment, of as many places, and of as much idle and
244Mr. Bathurst
 said, that the petitioner was arrested, as there was no other person in the neighbourhood of his description. In all such cases, however, application for redress should be made to the ordinary tribunals, and not to parliament. He was ready to show that all necessary accommodation had been afforded to the prisoner.Mr. Bathurst
 said, that though he thought the committee of police had a right to complain of the expressions which the gentleman, who was called on to attend had made use of, it would be proper, before they proceeded further, to settle how far they might be disposed to proceed against the individual in question.Mr. Bathurst
264 observed, that if it was to be held out to the public and the world, that there had been an abuse of justice, and a case of inhumanity, he trusted all the circumstances would be accurately represented, and that foreign countries, to whom it was said the knowledge of the transaction would extend, might have the means of forming a correct judgment upon the matter. It would then appear, that
264Mr. Bathurst
 bore testimony to the upright conduct of the rev. gentleman as a magistrate, and considered he had already made all the atonement in his power for the offence he had committed.Mr. Shaw Lefevre
 thought restrictions on the exportation of cotton yarn would only excite expectations which he was afraid might prove illusory.Lord Stanley
237236 said, it was necessary that a much more enlarged view should be taken of the subject, and that more liberal principles should be applied to its discussion, than had been laid down by his hon. friend. His hon. friend had stated, that in proportion as the exportation of cotton yarn had increased, the exportation of cotton piece goods had decreased, and that the increase of the one was the cause of the decrease of the other. It appeared from official returns that the importation of cotton wool, on an average often years, I previous to 1814, amounted to 72,000,000 of pounds; whereas, on an average of the three years, ending in 1815,1816 and 1817, it amounted to 95,000,000 of pounds, making a difference of 23,000,000 of pounds weight increase in the three last years, compared with the ten preceding years.
237236Mr. Philips
246245 agreed that every case of breach of privilege should stand upon its own basis, and that no publication could be defended by a reference to others
246245Mr. Brougham
 would not oppose the motion, but he was desirous of explaining the grounds of the vote he had given. Had this publication been stated nakedly to the House, without any reference to the insolent conduct of the author of it before the committee, he should have opposed the motion, and have resisted calling up Mr. Thirlwall.Mr. Brougham
 conceived that there would have been no difficulty in restoring the unfortunate woman to liberty without putting her upon her trial. If the prosecutor had declined to come forward, the witnesses might have been discharged from their recognizances. He should give his vote in support of the motion, not for the purpose of inculpating individuals, but to defend the character of justice and the decorum of judicial proceedings. However humble the person who had been the sufferer in the present case, he recollected no one that had created so much disgust, or been received with such disapprobation in the public mind. The woman certainly, with regard to her offence, was not in a capacity to be supposed acting under the influence of her husband, and was therefore legally subject to conviction. The motion threw no censure on the general administration of criminal justice in the country; but, on the contrary, if assented to, would tend to exalt and vindicate its character.Mr. H. Martin
262 thought he could give the hon. and learned gentleman that satisfaction on the subject of his motion, which he had expressed himself anxious to receive. It was impossible that any magistrate could have been so inhuman as to have brought this poor woman to trial on the very day on which her husband was executed, had not pressing reasons existed for doing so. It had only been done to save her from a more serious punishment, which would otherwise have resulted from the affectionate discharge of the duties of a wife, which had brought her under the sentence of the law. It was purely from a principle of humanity that she was put to the bar on that day, in order to save her from three months imprisonment, which must have followed the postponement of the trial till the next quarter sessions, and he might venture to say, it was fortunate for the poor woman that she had been brought up on that day. The secretary of state for the home department on hearing of some of the circumstances of the trial, caused the case to be immediately inquired into. This step was taken on Sunday, and the result of the inquiry induced him on Monday to recommend her to the Prince Regent, as a fit object of mercy, notwithstanding the lenity with which she had been treated by the court, who, he believed, had awarded the mildest punishment they had it in their power to inflict. The application of his noble relation had been successful; the poor woman
262Mr. Addington
 assured, the hon. and learned gentleman that the magistrates considered seriously what method could be devised to prevent the trial, but found that it could not be done. Had the trial been postponed, it would only have been an additional confinement, which would in itself have been a punishment. He could assure the House, that no means were used on the part of the magistrates to provoke a prosecution, or to urge its activity. Her trial was conducted with every disposition to produce an acquittal. Her defence was conducted by a counsel who had much zeal, and his exertions made a great impression in her favour; but to the great disappointment of the court and jury, a verdict was necessary against her. Every comfort was administered to her in the afflicting situation in which she stood. The recommendation of the jury to mercy was received with heart-felt joy. All parties sympathized in her fate, and a liberal subscription was immediately entered into.Alderman Atkins
239 said, that having lately been at Glasgow, he felt it his duty to
239Mr. J. P. Grant
 said, that, with respect to the treatment of the persons who had been apprehended at Glasgow, they had been accommodated with rooms as comfortable and convenient as could be procured; and as to the petitioner, the cell, as it was called, was better than the room from which he had been removed. Great humanity and attention had been shown by the magistrates to all the unfortunate persons, and he believed that they had even encouraged subscriptions for their families It was customary, however, in Scotland to issue a warrant for the apprehension of persons, without mentioning their christian names, or specifying their situation in life. If he were to go through all the statements contained in the petition, he was sure he could give a most satisfactory answer to every allegation. A more exaggerated account of privations had never been made, and he was surprised that any one could venture to make so unfounded a statement. He was fully convinced of the great humanity of the hon. and learned gentleman who presented the petition; but in this case he had certainly been misled, respecting the facts of the case.Mr. Finlay
l, in reply, stated, that the proportion of alien bank proprietors was one-tenth of the whole number. With respect to the profits enjoyed by the bank, the House was probably not aware, that, during the last twenty years, they had divided, in addition to 7 per cent, upon their capital, no less a sum than 25,000,000lMr. Grenfell
llllllll254llllll knew not whether the motion he was to submit to the House would be opposed, or upon what grounds it could be opposed; hut he founded it on a paper which he held in his hand, published by order of the hank directors, and of perfect notoriety. It was an account of the number of the proprietors of bank stock, among whom there was no inconsiderable proportion of aliens. It was not of this that he had any intention to complain; but the profits of the directors being enormous, he thought it an aggravation that foreigners should pocket our money. The profits of the bank were at present extravagant; he would assert that they were undue and unnecessary: and, as his late lamented friend, Mr. Horner,—whose premature death was an irreparable loss to the country, had described it—"the result of extravagance and prodigality on the part of the government, and of rapacity on the part of the bank." The object of the first part of his motion was, to ascertain what proportion of these profits foreigners pocketed. It was true, the great part of these profits had their center among ourselves; but it was no satisfaction to the House, or to the country, that one noble lord among ourselves pocketed on the 23d of April last, no less a sum from these profits than 70,000llllllll254llllllMr. Grenfell
 said, he could have wished to have heard some parliamentary ground laid for the present motion, which he had not. He did not see any practical good that could result from it, while, on the contrary, it might do mischief, by creating an alarm in the minds of foreigners, as to any ulterior proceeding which the House might adopt. He objected to it upon the principle that they had no right to interfere; but, at the same time, he had no objection to state, that the proportion of profits derived by aliens was very inconsiderable.Mr. Manning
 seconded the motion, and instanced the practical good effects of such a measure by a reference to the custom of Norwich, where, though the number of voters amounted to five thousand, the election was terminated in a day and a half.Mr. W. Smith
 thought that could be more fair or what had been just laid down by the noble lord. It used formerly to be the practice of parliament, when the language of any individual in the House was commented upon out of doors, to call the person to account who censured it. I5ut this privilege could not be acted upon now, when the debates were not confined to the walls of the House, but a portion of the House was set apart for the public [Cries of Order, order!]. He was aware he was quite out of order, but it was the shortest way of expressing what he meant.Mr. W. Smith
247bona fide went on, and described that what he meant was, that now when the debates of the House were circulated all over the kingdom, it could not be expected that the privileges of the Mouse should be insisted upon with much severity, nor was it desirable that they should. On the other hand, he had always considered it to be a kind of duty in every member to withhold himself from the defence out of doors of any expressions he might have used within. On that duty he had acted strictly and 247bona fideMr. W. Smith
261noli prosequinoli prosequi260259258 said, that, as the motion with which he should conclude would call for information that probably would not be refused, he should merely confine himself to moving for it, if it were not necessary, for the character of judicial proceedings in this country, that he should lay a ground for obtaining the documents he wished to
261noli prosequinoli prosequi260259258Sir James Mackintosh
266265, in reply, observed, that he had not, in bringing this motion before the House, directly or indirectly designed to impute any blame to government; on the contrary, he was much gratified with the very alert manner in which humanity had been extended to her, neither did he impute any improper motives to the worthy alderman and his colleagues. But while he said this, it was impossible for him to be silent when he contemplated such an unusual, detestable, and unnatural prosecution; and it was
266265Sir James Mackintosh
263 said, the case was not alone most calamitous to the wretched individual, but contributed to render odious and detestable the administration of justice, and he was sure that the House would feel greatly indebted to his hon. and learned friend for the opportunity of relieving the character of the country from the reproach. There was not, there could not be, any censure against the government. On the contrary, it had
263Sir S. Romilly
 felt it necessary to explain the vote he had given on a former occasion, when the reverend gentleman was ordered to be called to the bar. He was astonished to hear an attempt to make this a party question, because the chairman of the committee, by whom it had been brought forward, sat on that side of the House. It arose out of a committee on the police, one point of which concerned the licensing of public-houses. Surely nothing could be more free from party politics than this. He had before differed from the majority of the House in cases in which they had thought proper to visit what they considered breaches of privilege. He had then thought it most improper to proceed against the animadversions on the proceedings of the House, on the same ground as he should have condemned proceedings against the authors of remarks on proceedings in courts of justice. If the present case had been of this description, he should never have voted that the individual should be called to the bar. But what was the case? The police committee had made no report, but had put the House in possession of evidence on which it might proceed. The gentleman in question had published a work to persuade the House not to proceed on the suggestion of the committee, complaining of its proceedings as being similar to the star chamber, the committees of the long parliament, and the revolutionary committees of public safety, and had sent a copy to every member. This was a case similar to that of a publication calculated to influence a jury. If that had not been the nature of the publication, he should not have concurred in passing the slightest censure on it.Sir. S. Romilly
238 said, he held in his hands a Petition, which he was desirous of bringing before the House when the hon. member for Glasgow was present. It was from a person of the name of John Montgomery, a weaver in Glasgow, and one of those taken up on the charge of seditious and treasonable practices. On the 23d of February last he was taken up on a warrant of the sheriff, his papers were seized, and he was conveyed to prison, and confined there in a small cell, six feet and a half by eleven, where he was left without food and subsistence for 28 hours. He was kept three days and two nights in confinement, and then brought before the sheriff depute, Mr. Robert Hamilton, for examination. He was a total stranger to all those matters, on account of which he had been arrested. He had attended no political meetings. On the conclusion of his examination, he was sent back again to his cell, and next day, without any further examination, dismissed. It was impossible for him, a total stranger, to answer to the truth of the facts conveyed in the petition;
238Sir S. Romilly
 thought, that no doubt could exist as to the peculiarly exceptionable character of the publication under discussion; for in that publication the writer stated, that "recollecting the conduct of the committee at the revolution, as well as that of the revolutionary committee in France, he would not submit to be tried by any inquisitions, star chambers, or committees." Such a reflection upon the conduct of the committee alluded to, it was impossible for the House to overlook, consistently with the respect which it owed to its own dignity, and to the character of its committee. He had as much regard as any man for the liberty of the press, but he would never consent to allow it to protest against the authority of that House, or to assimilate its practice to that of the star chamber or the inquisition.Sir J. Newport
256 said, that if he had not known that the chancellor of the exchequer was restrained by the directors of the bank from assenting to any pro-
256Sir J. Newport
 expressed his entire concurrence in the lenient feeling of every gentleman in the House, and also in the manly and respectful conduct of the rev. gentleman. He must also bear testimony to the liberal conduct and ability of the hon. chairman of the committee, whose conduct throughout had been most conciliatory, and who had done nothing more on this occasion than what the dignity of the House rendered necessary.Sir T. Acland
273 seeing a right hon. gentleman in his place, wished to call his attention to an instance of Military Flogging which had lately come to his knowledge. In the Carlisle Journal, published about ten days ago, it was stated that a soldier of the 13th light dragoons, quartered in Carlisle, terminated his existence the preceding Sunday by drowning himself in the river Eden, through dread of receiving the second portion of a number of lashes which he had been sentenced to receive. He had already received one portion. He was sentenced to this punishment for having married a young woman without previously obtaining the consent of his officers. He would not enter into the question, whether the offence was one which was properly deserving of punishment, hut would confine himself to inquiring of the right hon. gentleman, whether he had correctly understood him on a former occasion? What he had understood him to say was, that it was illegal to bring out a man a second
273Sir F. Burdett
 Sutton said, he knew nothing of any punishment having lately been inflicted, such as the hon. baronet had described. He did not know that there was one word of truth in the statement. Neither had he any reason, from what had fallen from the hon. baronet, for believing that he knew more of it than himself. The hon. baronet had stated correctly the opinion which he had formerly delivered in the House, respecting the illegality of bringing a man more than once out to be flogged, under the same sentence. He still entertained precisely the same opinion—the opinion had been adopted by his royal highness the commander in chief, and was at present acted on. He entertained considerable doubts respecting the truth of the statement in the paper, because the matter seemed of so extravagant a nature, that if it had happened, he must have heard of it. If the hon. baronet would furnish him with the name and dates, he would make the necessary inquiries.Mr. Manners
 said, the name of the regiment only was mentioned in the Carlisle Journal, but he had understood that returns were made of all the sentences by courts martial.Sir. F. Burdett
ll291lll290lll289lllll288 observed, that he would not follow the right hon. gentleman through the whole of his speech, as two-thirds of it had nothing to do with the question now before the House. The right hon. gentleman instead of confining himself to the principal question, had gone out of his way to arraign the conduct of Parliament, in order to build something like an argument against the appointment of Mr. Herries. It was common for the gentlemen opposite, when they had no other argument to use, to endeavour to save themselves by having recourse to the word "job," though, he could not but feel some surprise that the right hon. gentleman, after the lesson of the other night, should again venture to use the term "job:" he could only account for this by supposing that the right hon. gentleman, like the starling, had got a habit of crying "job," and that it slipt from him unawares on the present occasion. Considering the long and able services of Mr. Herries, he thought nothing more than justice was done to him. It was not from any special favour to Mr. Herries that either of the appointments had been conferred. It had often been said, that till the civil list expenditure was put under the control of
ll291lll290lll289lllll288Lord Castlereagh
ll292ll, notwithstanding the reasoning of the right hon. gentleman, and notwithstanding the distinctions of the noble lord, could not see any grounds for thinking that the office of commissary-in-chief was not of a military nature. An argument, if the House could consider it an argument—an argument of a puzzling and curious nature had been used on this point. The situation was one of great importance and responsibility; the emolument was corresponding to its importance; but when over, nothing but what the Treasury allowed remained to him who had held it, and therefore the situation was not military. Very differently; were all other military officers treated. They could receive no other office. It was said they had promotion; they had the prospect of rising from lieutenant to captain, from captain to major. This was very true during war, and during war the commissary-in-chief had 2,700ll292llMr. Ponsonby
294l293l, junior, said, there were two questions under their consideration; 1st, whether the Treasury had exercised a proper discretion in allowing Mr. Herries 1,350294l293lMr. C. Grant
 observed, that great expectations had been excited in the country by this measure, of some beneficial arrangements. He was aware of strong objections to any parliamentary interference, which some considered as a sacrilegious attack on church property. He wished, however, to preserve the clergy's rights, without unnecessary burthens on the country.Lord Ebrington
 said, he thought it would be injustice to a successor to be bound by acts to which he was not a consenting party. There were three provisions proposed—the consent of the incumbent, patron, and a sworn surveyor; but he did not think they would be adequate to protect the successor against the act of an incumbent, Blackstone had observed, that the old provisions were found insufficient. He did not oppose the bill; but doubted its effect, and feared it might increase instead of diminishing dissensions.Mr. J. H. Smyth
 said, he looked with great anxiety at the removal of ancient usages. Such measures in the present state of the world, were not free from great danger. He should be better able to judge of the bill when it came in a regular shape from the committee; but it seemed to strike at a great principle of law, that a tenant for life should not injure his successor. He did not mean now to press his observations farther, but must call the earnest consideration: of the House to the whole subject. Pie therefore trusted for a full consideration of all the details of a measure that might affect the security of a most valuable class of persons; and hoped that time would be given for it. The university which he represented had not yet presented any petition en the subject, but its members felt a corresponding anxiety with Cambridge. He then read part of a letter from Oxford, stating that the bill was objectionable in principle and professions.Sir W. Scott
 did not rise to oppose the bill, but trusted that the objections to it would be done away in the committee. It related to a subject that might disturb many people's minds, when it was said that tithes, were a grievous tax, though they were as much the property of the church as any property was of the landlord.Lord Palmerston
 understood no attack to be made on the clergy or their rights, but thought that a bill regulating clerical property might be passed as well as a bill regulating any other species of property. With this view he would go into the committee. He was favourable to the bill, because he believed its provisions would be as beneficial to the clergy as to the other parties interested.Mr. Ponsonby
 considered the church property as inviolable as any other property.Mr. Savile
 concurred in the principle of the bill, not more because it was agreeable to the landholder than because it would promote the interests of the clergy, whose right to the enjoyment of tithes was as sacred as that of any landholder to the lands that yielded them. From his situation he was acquainted with the interests of the church, and the sentiments of the clergy; and he was sure that the measure before the House would promote the one and meet the other.Mr. H. Martin
 supported the bill, and replied to an observation of sir W. Scott, relative to the principle of English law, that a tenant for life could not bind his successor. Much of the prosperity of the country had arisen from an interference with this maxim. The guards in this bill were sufficient to prevent injury to church property.Mr. Lockhart
 said, that the principle of the bill had his support. He denied that any attempt was made to alarm the clergy.Mr. Brougham
 understood, when he undertook the measure, that it would be agreeable to the clergy, and would promote their interests. He had consulted their rights and wishes more than that of the other class, whose property his bill might affect. He was averse to delay in passing the bill. Much had been said of plans for relieving the poor. This measure, by encouraging agricultural improvements, would be found to be more practically beneficial than any of them.Mr. Newman
llllll277lllllll276llllllll275274 rose, in pursuance of notice, to bring under the consideration of parliament certain places of emolument and half pay, which the right hon. gentleman opposite and his colleagues had bestowed on the late commissary in chief. He
llllll277lllllll276llllllll275274Mr. Bennet
283l282llllll281l280ll279l278 observed, that he was willing to allow the hon. gentleman all possible credit for the inde-
283l282llllll281l280ll279l278The Chancellor of the Exchequer
272 said, the House must all have heard of the unfortunate accident which happened some time ago at Norwich, when so many persons lost their lives in consequence of the explosion of the boiler of a Steam Packet. The cause of that explosion was owing, he understood, to the boiler not being of a right construction. It was from its being made of cast iron, and not of cast iron only, but cast iron mixed with other metals, which greatly increased the danger. As there were at present a great
272Mr. Harvey
l287lll286llllll285llll284l allowed that all he had heard about Mr. Herries was in his favour: his merits were great and indisputable: he had discharged the duties of the important office intrusted to him ably and faithfully. The question however was, whether the remuneration which he had received was not totally disproportioned to the services he had performed. This, in his opinion, was the fact. He would not call the transaction a job, because he was anxious not to apply any unsuitable term to Mr. Herries; but he would say, that either Mr. Herries had been grossly overpaid, or other persons in the same or similar situations had been grossly underpaid. While he had been allowed to withdraw with an egregious sum, other most deserving officers have been left with a half pay, scarcely removed from penury and want. The right hon. gentleman had fairly stated the progress of the official life of Mr. Herries. It was true, that he began as a clerk in the Treasury: it was true that his abilities alone had recommended him to the notice of the right hon. gentleman who had appointed him to be his private secretary; it was equally true, that for his abilities alone, he afterwards was made private secretary to Mr. Perceval; it was true, that persons so situated had always been held worthy of some provision; but none had ever received so great reward as Mr. Herries; none had received 2,700l287lll286llllll285llll284lMr. Tierney
 said, the accident at Norwich could not have happened, had it not been for gross neglect with respect to the management of the safety valve. It was not from any deficiency in the materials of which the boiler was composed.Mr. Curwen
 expressed his hope that the inquiry in a committee might remove the alarm of the country.Mr. Thompson
 said, the accident was owing to the safety valve being overloaded. The object of the committee should be, by examining engineers, to learn how the safety of the passengers might be best secured. It might be impossible to prevent the bursting of the boiler, but the boiler might burst without causing those inconveniences with which the bursting of cast-iron boilers was attended.Mr. W. Smith
 said, that returns were regularly made to the proper office, but he was not made acquainted with them, except when it became necessary to consult him with respect to them; and this was one great reason of his doubting the truth of the statement in question, because if such a punishment had been entered in any return, it would certainly have been mentioned to him.Mr. M. Sutton
*333Nuncio Rinuccini,332331330329328327***Ancient326325324‡imperium in imperio323322321in partibus infidelium320319318§317316315314313312in limine.311310imperium in imperio,309imperium in imperio,308307306veto305veto rose and said:*333Nuncio Rinuccini,332331330329328327***Ancient326325324‡imperium in imperio323322321in partibus infidelium320319318§317316315314313312in limine.311310imperium in imperio,309imperium in imperio,308307306veto305vetoMr. Leslie Foster
347self-tormenting346345onus344finalno effect whatever,sine quà non,in hœc verba.regium placitum;nomination of bishops,oath,essential343regium placitum;regium exequatur,thirdministerial,foreignforeignsine quà non,essential,342secondFirstsui juris;341the foreign influence;340**special said, that it would not be necessary for him to trouble the House at much length; for the question at present, in his view, lay within a narrow compass. It appeared to him to be now arrived at such a point, that it was fit to decide it in one way or the other; and it had been so frequently and so fully discussed, and the general bearings of it were so well understood (in the House at least), that every gentleman must be prepared to give his final opinion upon it, and to pronounce his verdict;—that he, for one, was prepared to pronounce his own; but as it must be a sort of 347self-tormenting346345onus344finalno effect whatever,sine quà non,in hœc verba.regium placitum;nomination of bishops,oath,essential343regium placitum;regium exequatur,thirdministerial,foreignforeignsine quà non,essential,342secondFirstsui juris;341the foreign influence;340**specialMr. Yorke
in toto; spoke against the motion. No good ground had yet been stated for it; but strong arguments had been urged against it, and of these none had yet been contradicted by any sound reasoning. The House was called upon to go into a committee, there to discuss that which had been already discussed, and against which the House had already so often pronounced its opinion. In point of fact, to accede to the motion would be to give up the whole question; and the House might be as well openly and fairly called upon to concede the claims, without any security; for if they went into the committee, the only choice would be between the veto and the domestic nomination. One of the most extraordinary assumptions in the arguments on this occasion was, that things were now came to such a state that some change must be made in the laws respecting the Roman Catholics. For his own part he denied this in toto;Mr. Buthurst
quantum404403402ex cathedra,401400399†398397 regretted, that he should be placed in the painful situation of differing from many of those for whose judgment he entertained the highest respect, and he should therefore offer what he had to submit to the House with the utmost diffidence. One of the difficulties attending this discussion was, that it was scarcely possible to adduce one new argument or one topic that was not already exhausted on either side of the question; but it was not the less necessary, in his opinion, that parliament should, with all convenient speed, deliver itself from the agitation of this painful subject and the
quantum404403402ex cathedra,401400399†398397Lord Castlereagh
423422421420419418417bona fide416415414de novo;413See Vol. 34, p. 1257.*412411satisfactory410409408Regium Exequatur,Regium Exequatur,407satisfactorysatisfactory406satisfactoryearly405 rose and said:—423422421420419418417bona fide416415414de novo;413See Vol. 34, p. 1257.*412411satisfactory410409408Regium Exequatur,Regium Exequatur,407satisfactorysatisfactory406satisfactoryearly405Mr. Peel
428pass427426425424 said, it was not his intention to detain the House for many minutes from that vote which was so loudly and generally called for. He had so often and so fully explained his opinions upon this important and most interesting question, that he felt nothing more to be necessary on his part, on the present occasion, than to declare that those views remained the same,—that they were in no degree altered by any thing that he had heard in this debate, not even by the speech of consummate ability which had been last delivered by his right hon friend (Mr. Peel), and of which it was but justice to say, that it comprised every argument on that side of the question, and exhibited them all in the most luminous point of view. What, however, was, after all, the result of all his right hon. friend's reasonings? Why this—that we were in a situation of extreme delicacy and difficulty. That we could neither recede, nor go forward without hazard and inconvenience. Nor had his right hon. friend ventured to add, that we could safely and satisfactorily remain as we were. Could his right hon. friend have established this point, he (Mr. C.) admitted, that he would have gone far to dispose of the present motion, and of all questions of a similar kind. But he (Mr. C.) had watched in vain for any attempt at such an argument: and till this point was established, the arguments drawn from the inconvenience of going forward were, even
428pass427426425424Mr. Canning
393392nolumus leges Angliœ mutari.391390389388387l.386***385384383Vœ victis!382381‡380premunirepremunire.for ever,379as settledDe Ecclesia Christi,378semper eademsemper eadem.377376375374ab initio,373372semper eadem.371for ever settled.370369for ever settled.368367366365364363362cabal361360359358357356355354353 said, that he felt it his most painful but most bounden duty to give to the motion of the right hon. gentleman his most decided opposition. No qualifications, no system of arrangements that have been or could be devised, could, in his view of the question, in the least remove or mitigate the enormous mischiefs which in his conscience he believed must necessarily attend the success of the proposed measure. He therefore had little to say on the subject of those arrangements, which, strangely to him, had been thought worthy of so much consideration. He objected to them as utterly vain and illusory, and therefore as aggravating the dangers which they held out, a delusive appearance and promise of guarding against. Of those proposed, namely, the Veto and Domestic Nomination, which had been so gravely argued on by the gentleman who had preceded him in the debate, they had each of them their distinct grounds for reprobation, in addition to the general objections which lay against them. The Veto would be the deliberate and express admission of the exercise of papal power within this great and hitherto independent empire. It would be the admission of that power in the very instance in which it had been resisted, even when the Roman Catholic was the established religion; and in direct contravention to the statutes of provisors and præmunire, which still remain the forgotten or insult-
393392nolumus leges Angliœ mutari.391390389388387l.386***385384383Vœ victis!382381‡380premunirepremunire.for ever,379as settledDe Ecclesia Christi,378semper eademsemper eadem.377376375374ab initio,373372semper eadem.371for ever settled.370369for ever settled.368367366365364363362cabal361360359358357356355354353Mr. Webber
304303veto302** then rose, and said:—Having been applied to by the Roman Catholics of Ireland to bring their case under the consideration of the House, I shall now proceed to discharge the duty I have undertaken. But, Sir, it is not my intention at present to go into this important question. I shall entreat the indulgence of the House to hear my sentiments fully by way of reply. Upon a question of this sort, which has been debated in this House so often, it would be monstrous presumption in me to expect to be heard twice in the course of one night; I shall, therefore, request the indulgence of the House for my reply, and shall now trouble gentlemen but for a very few minutes. The resolution intend to move is, for a committee to take the laws affecting the Roman Catholics into consideration. It is the same motion which was carried in 1813, and does nothing more than pledge the House to examine the penal laws, with a view to relieve the Catholics—to give every se-
304303veto302**Mr. Grattan
438437436"And asks no omen but his country's cause.""Without a sign his sword the brave man draws,435434433§432431430429 replied to the following effect:—438437436"And asks no omen but his country's cause.""Without a sign his sword the brave man draws,435434433§432431430429Mr. Grattan
a laugh said, he felt himself particularly called upon to present himself to the House in consequence of the cheers which had followed the question of the right hon. gentleman, whether any person there was authorized by the pope to say, that his holiness would consent to domestic nomination? He did not mean to state, that he was directly authorized by the pope to say this [a laughGeneral Mathew
396395394 observed, that he hoped the little he had to offer would plead his excuse for the trespass he was about to make on the attention of the House. During the speech of an hon. member, he had observed the considerable effect produced by the extracts read from a pamphlet published by doctor Gandolphy, for the tenets contained in which it would be found the author had been suspended. With this work he proceeded to Rome, and laid it before an accredited officer of the papal court, whose sanction he obtained. This officer, styled the Master of the Apostolic Palace, it had since been discovered, had, through the misrepresentation of doctor Gandolphy, and his total ignorance of the English language, been induced to give an imprimatur, or approval of its contents. Upon the discovery of its contents at Rome, cardinal Litta immediately acquainted doctor Poynter here with the circumstance, and begged it to be understood, that the approval of the Master at Rome had been surreptitiously obtained, upon which doctor Gandolphy was immediately, and still continued suspended. [Hear, hear!]—The whole fabric, therefore, erected by the hon. member upon the contents and tendency of this work, fell to the ground. It was in no degree authenticated or sanctioned by the court of Rome. What had subsequently fallen from that hon. member only went to prove, that the minds of the Catholic population had been so completely alienated in Ireland, that it would be better they should remain for ever in the state in which they were. What! was it to be endured that parliament should be told, at a period like the present, that no securities could be devised sufficiently satisfactory? The controversy had been heightened, if not altogether occasioned, by the delay of parliament; the longer that delay continued, the warmer and greater would be that controversy. The interposition of parliament was now called
396395394Mr. W. Elliot
301, adverting to the questions
301Mr. Manners Sutton
352351 had to thank the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Yorke), who had spoken on the other side of the House, for his very valuable, cordial, and conciliating speech. He hoped to be able to satisfy him, that the Catholics were perfectly willing to do all those things which the right hon. gentleman required should be done, as the conditions on which he would give them his support. In doing so, he should at the same time be able to refute the assertion of an hon. member who spoke from the second bench (Mr. Foster), that there was nothing new in the proposed plan of domestic nomination. But before he proceeded to do so, he wished to say that the statement of the hon. member concerning the number of coadjutor bishops in Ireland, was altogether incorrect. There were at present only three in Ireland, all of whom had been appointed, as the practice was, because the bishops were themselves unable, from infirmities or age, to discharge their duties. In order to understand exactly the proposed plan of domestic nomination of all future bishops, it was necessary that the House should know the proceedings which now took place for filling a bishop's see when vacant. The bishops of the province in which he was situated, assembled together, and having consulted with the priests of the vacant diocese, named those persons as fit to be chosen by the pope for the new bishop. It had been nearly the constant practice for the pope to choose the person, whose name stood first upon the list, but there was no law to compel him to do so; he had, in fact, in some few instances, appointed a person not recommended by the bishops of the province, and he possessed the power, if he chose to exercise it, of appointing even a foreigner to be an Irish bishop. It was to exclude the possibility of any such proceeding, and to render all future appointments entirely the appointments of the Catholic Irish priests and bishops, that it was now proposed that the pope should issue a concordat, by which he should bind himself to appoint no person to be a bishop in Ireland, except such a person as should be in the first place elected by the Irish clergy themselves. It
352351Sir Henry Parnell
350349348, after some preliminary observations on the general question, adverted to the proposed measure of domestic nomination, by which the pope was to assent to a choice limited to native prelates. Whether such choice originated in the chapters of the second order of clergy, or proceeded from the Roman Catholic prelates exclusively, as had been the general usage, was a question with which he thought government should not interfere; but he maintained, that in conformity to the established principles and practice of what might be said to comprehend nearly all the nations of Europe, the Crown ought to have a decided negative in cither case, upon all such nominations. He was not himself apprehensive at the present day, of the undue exercise of the assumed prerogative of the see of Rome, in maintaining her own negative upon the postulations of the national Roman Catholic clergy. During the last and present pontificates, that prerogative had been invariably exercised with the most favourable disposition towards the British government. The apostolic vicar of the middle district (Dr. Milner), in his own person afforded a notable example of these dispositions: he had been postulated thrice to Rome by the clergy of the district, and as often negatived by Rome; but it was in the persuasion that the choice was not conformable to the inclinations of the king's government:—as soon, however, as an intimation was given, that no prejudices obtained against him on the side of government, he received his institution from Rome: but we must nevertheless look back to other times, and guard against the recurrence of similar evils.
350349348Sir J. C. Hippisley
 thought the establishment for the colonies too high, particularly when he compared the number of troops maintained in Jamaica and the other West India islands in 1792 and at the present period.General Walpole
525 rose to call the attention of government to the subject of the relief of troops in the West Indies. He allowed that much good had resulted from the system already acted upon, of relieving whole regiments or companies at once, and not detaining them, as formerly, in one place, filling up their casualties by draughting from other regiments. The contrary custom had for a long time prevailed. He knew of four companies of the artillery corps who had remained in Jamaica, the first 27 years, another 21, and another 15 years. They went out without the hope of returning. They suffered under the most overwhelming despair; they viewed themselves as victims of destruction, and in consequence surrendered themselves up to every kind of irregularity and debauchery: their crimes increased with their miseries, and their punishments with their crimes. Their punishments were greater
525Sir R. Fergusson
 denied that any attack on the master-general of the ordnance was either made or intended. The facts were only stated with a reference to future attention. They could not apply to the present master-general, as they adverted to the proceedings of years past, when his noble relation had no connexion with the ordnance.Sir R. Fergusson
 coincided with his gallant friend, that nothing like attack was intended; it was the system that was reprobated; and surely twenty-seven years was a long period for the continuance of such an abuse without any check until the present time.Mr. Ponsonby
527526 said, that, after what had already passed, it was with the deepest and most unaffected pain (arising from
527526Lord Nugent
529 protested against the mode the hon. baronet had adopted of throwing the gross amount of all the descriptions of force together, including yeomanry, and the army in France, and commenting upon them as if they were all maintained at the expense of England.—The gentlemen opposite, he observed, were not disposed to impeach the estimate.—Certainly the government of India was entitled to all the praise of the hon. baronet; for a more mild and liberal government did not exist. But the people there were attached to the government; for they had not been corrupted by the pernicious and disorganising principles of the French revolution. The noble lord referred to the different forces, and observed that, instead of having 140,000 men for the British empire, we had only 80,000, which number, though voted by parliament, always fell short of the amount. With respect to the colonial garrisons abroad, they were only a fraction beyond what
529Lord Castlereagh
 thought the gallant general should at least have given some notice of his intended attack on his noble relation, the master-general of the ordnance. With respect to the removal of those companies from the West Indies, he assured the House the removal had taken place.General Phipps
531posse comitatus530posse cumitatus contended, that with a yeomanry force in the united kingdom amounting to 35,000 men, the estimates might be brought much lower than they were at present. In addition to the yeomanry, there were magistrates, constables, and the 531posse comitatus530posse cumitatusMr. Brougham
528 regretted that the last speaker had been so recent a member of
528Mr. Goulburn
 said, that he would move a reduction of the estimates on the bringing up of the report.Mr. Calcraft
523522 thought the force proposed much too large for the circumstances of the country. With respect to the Report of the finance committee, as he did not become a member of that committee until after the Second Report was drawn up, he did not hold himself responsible for any part of that Report; and he could not help observing, as to that Report, that it was very extraordinary that establishments should be voted, or their amount determined, before the statement of the probable income of the year was laid before the House. In 1792, all the services now to be performed, were performed by 40,000 less than the number now required excluding the force in France. He did not mean to say that the establishment of 1792 was capable of performing the services now required. But ministers were
523522Mr. Calcraft
 wished the House to consider, even supposing there might be danger to the public service in reducing the military establishments, whether the greater danger would not be found in voting such a force as our financial resources were unable to support. For his own part, he could not take upon himself to decide what our establishments ought to be, until the financial means of the country were fully before the House.Mr. Curwen
 gave notice of his intention to move for limiting the period of these estimates upon the report being brought up.Mr. J. P. Grant
l524llll animadverted on the unnecessary increase of the life-guards and blues, troops employed only for splendour and parade. The staff of the colonies he likewise thought too expensive. In 1792 the charges for the staff in Jamaica was only 864l524llllMr. Warre
 entered into a comparison of the amount of troops maintained in our various colonies in 1792, contrasting them with the present amount, and contending that the number now proposed was far beyond what necessity required.Sir W. Burroughs
 observed, that if 20,000 effective Europeans were sufficient, with the native troops, to preserve the tranquillity of that immense empire, and population, it was a proof of the mildness of the government and the attachment of the inhabitants. But could as much be said of this Country? Were the people here so attached to the government, and could the illustrious personage at the head of it be said to be enthroned in their hearts? If loyalty and attachment pervaded every part of the country, where was the necessity for such an enormous standing army? He believed that the ungrounded apprehensions of ministers had induced them to maintain an army beyond what the country required. He hoped they would see their error, and endeavour to rule by the affections of the people, and not by the sword.Sir W. Burroughs
ll recommended strongly to the attention of his majesty's government, the propriety of relieving the numerous class of half-pay officers from the obligation of the affidavit, by which they were unable to receive half-pay, and at the same time hold any civil or other military allowance. There might have been some reason formerly, but its injustice at present was not only obvious, but bore with great severity on that valuable class. A trifling addition to their income by the holding of a small office to the amount of 50llMr. Lyttelton
lldslll521l.;ll;lllllpro formâ,520lllllll519llll518lll517 said, that in rising to call upon the House to vote the supplies for the army for the whole of the year, he did not feel himself bound to follow the arrangement which had been hitherto usual in describing the different classes of force which it was proposed to maintain. He should therefore, thinking it the most consonant and perspicuous mode, divide the whole of the establishment for which he now intended to call upon the House to provide, into four classes. Under the first class, he included the whole active military force employed within the kingdom, that was to say, the regiments of the line, the staff, the volunteers and yeomanry, and the public offices. Under the second class he included the active force employed out of the kingdom, including the troops in France and in India. The third class
lldslll521l.;ll;lllllpro formâ,520lllllll519llll518lll517Lord Palmerston
 was surprised that the hon. gentleman who spoke first did not give ministers some credit for reducing the establishments to their present scale, especially as he seemed to think that they had proceeded on his recommendation. The hon. gentleman had objected to the half-pay given to foreign corps, who might still be employed in another service on full pay; but foreign troops employed in our pay, when disbanded, could not be called back like our own half-pay officers. They enjoyed their half-pay rather as a reward for past services than as a retaining fee for future. With regard to prohibiting half-pay officers from enjoying other places of emolument, he would say nothing at present, but that the government would take the subject into consideration. In the mean time, he did not think the regulation so groundless as it had been stated. The establishment of the life-guards and blues was complained of as being too high; if they were to be kept up at all, they must he kept up in a state of efficiency. Instances had occurred since the meeting of parliament in which they had been extremely useful. With regard to the increase of the colonial staff, it might be explained from the change of system that of late had taken place, rather than from any extravagance on the part of government. The addition to the charge for the compassionate list would be sufficient, though he allowed the full merits of this establishment.Lord Palmerston
535l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.534l. rose to make his promised motion relative to the shameful neglect that at present prevailed in enforcing the payment of fines incurred by persons in Ireland, inconsequence of the Forfeiture of their Recognizances in criminal cases. The present system of entreating or enforcing such fines, had been settled by the act of 1798 of the Irish parliament—a period peculiarly unfavourable to legislative accuracy or precision. By this act the estreats of all fines were ordered to be certified to that officer in the exchequer, denominated the comptroller of fines and estreats, who made a return thereof to the directors of green wax process. These parties were empowered by the said act to direct warrants to be issued to the collectors of baronial assessments, empowering them to levy these fines, to assist and thereby lighten these assessments. It was perfectly clear to the House, that unless persons giving their recognizance to appear and prosecute criminal offences were, in the event of their non-appearance, punished by estreating their recognizances thus forfeited, there must be an end put to any expectation that justice in criminal matters would be done in any part of Ireland. The fact was, that nothing was more common than informations against individuals to-day, which, through partiality, interest, or the more flagitious means of bribing, were abandoned to-morrow. The sum total of these estreats during the last seven years amounted to 200,000535l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.534l.Mr. Peel
l.,l.536 said, he held in his hand a Petition to which he should beg the attention of the House, and which if correct, formed a serious charge against some persons entrusted with the administration of justice. The petitioner, a Mr. Griffiths, was a stationer and paper-hanger in Oxford-street. In the course of the last year a captain Hay or Hoy, a man of fortune, who passed for a gentleman, had lodged in the house of the petitioner. The wife of the petitioner, who it appeared was a beautiful and interesting woman, was alone in her parlour, when this captain Hay made a most atrocious assault on her person: in consequence of her screams he was, however, obliged to quit the House without effecting his purpose; but in consequence of this assault she miscarried. Captain Hay, was tried for this offence at the Middlesex sessions, on the 18th of Feb. and to the surprise of every one set up an alibi. The statement of Mrs. Griffiths, who, of course, was the principal witness, was confirmed by the neighbours, and the witnesses whom captain Hay adduced to prove the alibi, were completely disbelieved by the jury, as was proved by their verdict. The chairman in summoning up stated, that he never recollected a case in which more barefaced and deliberate perjury had been resorted to in defence of a prisoner, and recommended the petitioner to prosecute the principal witness, who was now suffering punishment for his crime. The jury, without hesitation found, the prisoner guilty, and the chairman in passing sentence on him remarked that the magnitude of his
l.,l.536Mr. Bennet
542541 in reply to the observation of the hon. and learned gentleman, that the examination or decision of the army estimates should not devolve upon any committee, called to the recollection of the House, that the first object referred to the consideration of the committee alluded to was, the amount of our military establishment; and he was not aware that that committee had, in any degree, arrogated the power of deciding for or dictating to the House upon this subject. Its only object, indeed was, to inquire into details; and he submitted that such inquiry by any committee was by far the more convenient and satisfactory course for the House itself. Indeed, if he recollected rightly, such was the observation of the hon. and learned gentleman himself upon another occasion. But it must be obvious, that accurate information as to details was more likely to be obtained from the report of any committee, than from any conversations in that House upon such points, and this he thought was to be concluded even from the report to which the hon. and learned gentleman had referred. Those details, with some observations naturally arising out of them, were all the finance committee had undertaken to lay before the House. It did not assume to suggest what should be the amount of our numerical force: it left that to the consideration of the House itself, and therefore it did not on this point attempt to interfere with that degree of ministerial responsibility to which the hon. and learned gentleman referred. He agreed fully with the hon. and learned gentleman as to the propriety of bearing in mind the military establishment of 1792, and the hon. and learned gentleman would see a recommendation upon the subject of that precedent in the report before the House. There might be, and he hoped there would be soon, such a change in our internal
542541Mr. Bankes,
547546 observed, that when the hon. gentleman on the floor (Mr. Bankes) arraigned the conduct of his majesty's ministers, his opinion was hailed with acclamation by the gentlemen opposite; but, when that hon. member declared that government appeared to be right, and that those gentlemen were wrong, then his opinion constantly went for nothing. Another course of proceeding pursued by gentlemen opposite was, when ministers proposed a committee on matters of this kind, to run that committee down. It was to be hunted as proper game, and to be killed as soon as possible. The hon. and learned gentleman opposite (Mr. J. P. Grant) last session objected to the discussion of the army estimates any where but in a committee and now, that a committee had been granted, nothing they did appeared to satisfy him. The hon. member who spoke last, stated, that he would convince the House that the estimates were too large; but he had not entered into any detail. He came at once to this result, that a reduction of 10,000 men ought to take place; but he did not point out where the force proposed to be employed was too numerous, nor did he state, how the troops remaining after this deduction were to be divided amongst the various branches of the service. The hon. gentleman asked, how 85,000 men could now be necessary, when, in 1792, only 44,000 troops were called for? The comparison between the two periods was not a just one, particularly as he had included the force employed in India, in his calculation, a force, it should be remarked, that was not paid by the public. When he compared the force now in India with that of 1792, it would be found to exist in the ratio of 17 to 9, which accounted for a considerable number of additional troops. In Ireland, the force was now 22,000 men, instead of about 12,000, which it was in
547546Mr. Robinson
554553** said, he had stated last year that 25,000 men would be necessary for Ireland. He thought the same necessity for the same force existed this year; and he had not heard one opinion against this position, or saying the estimate was too high. His attention had been turned to the subject of effecting every reduction; and he could assure the House, that he should find it more difficult to state why he recommended a reduction of 3,000, than why he still thought that 22,000 men should be maintained. He protested against the practice of taking the year 1792 as a criterion for establishments of every other period of peace. If he required so many troops to aid the police, or to preserve the peace of the country, it would be no answer to him that there were just so many and no more twenty-five years ago, and that they were then sufficient. The force in Ireland did not much exceed, in proportion to the force in England, its amount in 1792. After the peace of Amiens, the army in that country was 22,000 men, employed only in preserving tranquillity. For seven years after that period, including the years 1806
554553**Mr. Peel
557l.l.,556555 said, he was always disposed to attend to the observations of the
557l.l.,556555Mr. Ponsonby
559 said, that what he had stated with regard to the situation of Ireland was this—that he saw no reason for applying there the measures which were necessary in this country: but in making that statement, he distinguished between that system of organization which unhappily prevailed here, and that derangement of the public peace in Ireland which rendered it necessary to distribute the military force over the whole country. He certainly had never thrown out any idea that a diminution of the force in Ireland was practicable. Having said this much on that point, he must now beg leave to remind the House, that though they were to proceed to decide on a motion for recommitting the report, that question was brought forward for the purpose of letting in one respecting numbers. The hon. gentleman who proposed to bring forward this question, had, however admitted that no reduction could be made in Ireland or in India. It must tall, then, on the colonies or Great Britain; but the hon. gentleman had not pointed out any colonies in which he thought reductions could be made. Did he conceive it possible, that the whole force in Great Britain could be reduced to the extent of 10,000 men? Tin's surely could not be suggested; and yet there was no other quarter to which his scheme of reduction could be applied; for if he could point out colonies in which reductions might be made, it was obvious that the troops could not be brought home within the time to which the resolution
559Lord Castlereagh
 expressed some doubt whether the petitioner had pursued the most advisable course—whether he had not his remedy at law.Mr. Bathurst
 was of opinion, the force proposed to be kept up in Ireland was not greater than the circumstances of the country required.Mr. D. Browne
537 said, the conduct of the magistrates was most extraordinary, and called for the interference of that House. The power of the magistrates to mitigate
537Mr. Brougham
545l.l.,l.,544l.543l,l. said, he could scarcely believe his own ears, and felt much inclined to doubt whether it could be the member for Corfe Castle who had made such a speech, and who had just sat down. Could it be he who valued consistency more than any other man? Could he have forgotten the discussion on the army estimates last year? Could he have forgotten his own proposition? Did he now end by declaring himself a friend to the very large establishment proposed by ministers. Could he, who professed the most unwearied zeal for economy, end by attacking some petty allowances to clerks. Last year the hon. gentleman was for the most extravagant economy; this year he supported the estimates of his majesty's ministers. Even he (Mr. Calcraft), though a strenuous friend to retrenchment, thought his retrenchments too extensive. Now, the hon. gentleman was surprised at the exertions of his majesty's ministers. Last year he had himself moved, that 33,000 men should be reduced; now the whole amount of his savings did not exceed 1,200545l.l.,l.,544l.543l,l.Mr. Calcraft
 said, he would then propose the recommitment of the report, with the view of making a motion of reduction. With respect to the forces in Ireland and India, he should not, after what he had heard, persist in proposing any reduction. Under the circumstances in which Ireland was now placed, he was sorry to say that he did not consider 12,000 men too much for that country, and he could not propose any diminution in the number of 8,000 for India: but there still remained 20,000, from which reductions might be made, and he thought it would be a wise policy to deduct 10,000 from that number: 3,000 men had been mentioned by the noble secretary as requisite for reliefs, but that number he thought quite unnecessary. He then moved that the report be recommitted.Mr. Calcraft
 said, that if the House would permit him he would save them the trouble of dividing, by withdrawing his motion, in order that his hon. friend might have an opportunity of making the motion for a reduction of the number of the forces of which he had given notice.Mr. J. P. Grant
l.l.,549 dissented from the opinion of his noble friend the secretary at war, on other grounds than those stated by the hon. gentlemen opposite. He believed that the force proposed in the estimates was rather too small than too great. When he delivered this opinion he should be understood as alluding particularly to the numerical amount proposed for our colonial establishments. An hon. and gallant general (Walpole) had last night stated, that, in 1792, Jamaica was protected with a force only of 1,200 men, and that that was sufficient for the security of that valuable colony. The hon. gentleman might have remembered that, when he himself was there in 1795, there was a force of 5,000 in that colony, and that an army of this amount was unable, for some time, to make any impression on the insurgents, whose rebellion then endangered the island. As great a force was now necessary as at any former period, if not greater. The black population of these colonies was now in a different state than formerly. A force of 3,200 men was now inadequate for Jamaica, even although the negroes were disposed to obedience, and manifested no symptoms of discontent. To keep a body of men such as they were in due subordination, and to give security to the planters, their masters, an imposing military attitude was more than ever necessary. He would not enter into details (though with regard to Jamaica he was enabled to do so); but he thought he should lay sufficient grounds for a considerable force, when he stated, that the British capital in Jamaica that required
l.l.,549Mr. George Grant
540l.l.,l.539538 rose, and expressed his intention of proposing, as an amendment, the substitution of the word "September" in the place of December. His reasons for making this proposition were founded on the proceedings of the House, in appointing a committee of finance, on the suggestion of the noble lord opposite. He had understood, when the noble lord had proposed his committee of finance, that it was for the purpose of ascertaining the amount of income and expenditure before the estimates of the year were submitted to the House. The noble secretary at war had also required, in the early part of the session, to have the estimates voted only for six months, on the ground of the impropriety of declaring the ultimate expenditure of the year, before the committee of finance had made its report. It would therefore be necessary to show that some alteration had taken place in the affairs of the country, to justify this deviation from the principle and mode of procedure formerly adopted, and to prove that the House were not stultifying themselves in the presence of the country. He had ever considered that the army estimates were submitted to parliament on the sole responsibility of ministers, unfortified by the decision of any committee of the House; nor could any minister come before parliament, and meet the objections, offered to the estimates by saying, "These are not our estimates, but have emanated from a committee of yourselves." It was impossible for the House to enter into a satisfactory examination of the estimates, without having the report of the committee of finance; for the mere assertion of any individual member of the financial embarrassments of the country must have but little weight, unless supported by official documents. The noble secretary at war had said that the estimates were framed on economical principles, referring principally to the colonies, because, said the noble lord, the colonies might be held at too dear a rate. He (Mr. Grant) would
540l.l.,l.539538Mr. J. P. Grant
l.,548 said, that, after one year and eleven months of profound peace, ministers came forward with an estimate of] military force unexampled in this country even in war, till the last French war; certainly unexampled in any former period of peace. There was every prospect of a long peace. What, then, could we dread, or what danger could justify so large a force? It must be our internal situation, if any pretence could be offered. In this view, a comparison with the establishment of 1792 would show the extravagance of our present estimates. At that time we had to form our preparations for meeting a powerful foreign enemy, and opposing the diffusion of French principles: but even in that year, the force voted was very small when compared with the estimates for this. The whole force then for Great Britain, and her foreign possessions, was only 42,215 men; whereas the present vote was required for 92,600 men, exclusive of the
l.,548Sir W. Burroughs
 should not have thought this large establishment necessary for Ireland, had it not been for the irritating vote of Friday night. He hoped, however, that the Irish would continue to show the same patience and peaceable demeanour with which they had hitherto borne all their privations. The House should recollect how quiet Ireland had remained whilst mischievous demagogues were instigating the populace here to outrages and disturbances. Under these circumstances he did not think they deserved the stigma which the late vote had thrown upon them; for no country could always be well disposed, which was deprived of the benefit of the laws.Sir. F. Flood
 complimented the right hon. gentleman upon the sincerity of his intentions, and the correct view he had taken of the subject. He considered that the evil called aloud on parliament for its interference. It was high time the power of levying those fines should be transferred from the constable to the sheriff. The result had proved its impolicy, and he should give the most hearty cooperation to the bill proposed.Sir John Newport
558 could not help noticing the great inconsistency between the arguments which had been used that night,
558Lord Ebrington
*552551550 was not surprised at the warmth of the hon. gentleman, who came to the House with a greater bias to local interests, perhaps, than a general view of the empire would have given or warranted; and who naturally conceived, when measures of general good interfered with particular local arrangements, that government were negligent of their duty. He (Lord M.) looked more at general than local interests, and believed that government ought not to be swayed too much by the suggestions of individuals, who took only a partial view of matters. With regard to the subject before the House, he could not help remarking, that our force were every where increased; and a strange reason was given for the increase
*552551550Lord Milton
566 said, that he had advised the hon. member to withdraw his bill under the idea, that if the very voluminous bill which did so much credit to the hon. member's talents had gone into a committee, and had been found impracticable, so much time would have been lost, that there would have been no possibility of remedying the inconveniencies complained of during the present session. He had thought it advisable to wait till the hon. member should determine whether he, would again bring forward the subject in another shape. He regretted that the hon. member had given up the subject for the present. He was, however, happy to say, that his right hon. friend (Mr. V. Fitzgerald) intended to bring forward a bill to remedy the abuses complained of. He thought a bill in the nature of an experimental measure, was better than a sud-
566Mr. Peel
 thought it extraordinary to reject a bill before it had been examined by a committee; and, though he was glad that any bill was to be introduced, he hoped his hon. friend would proceed next session. With respect to the appointment of sheriff, though a change had been promised, he did not find any improvement, for the judges still took the names from the outgoing sheriff. He hoped that this would be altered, for the existing sheriff would always name those who were in the interest from which he had derived his own appointment.Mr. Ponsonby
567 felt it necessary, as he had given a pledge to the House last session, that steps should be taken as to the appointment of sheriffs, to explain what had actually been done. On his return to Ireland, he had communicated with the lord chancellor on the subject, and directions had been given that the judges on the assizes should return three fit persons to serve the office of sheriff, from each county, This had been done, and in almost every case the first on the list had been appointed. In no instance had any party considera-
567Mr. Peel
 said, he had heard with great satisfaction the statement of the right hon. gentleman, and thought it would be a great step towards the improvement of the state of Ireland.Mr. Ponsonby
l568 said, that much more had been done by the Irish government on this subject in a short time than could be expected. He thought it very proper, that the bill entirely changing the system of grand jury presentments, had not been pressed through the House without mature consideration, which could not be afforded. He advised the hon. member to bring his measure forward early in the next session, to attract the attention of the British part of the representatives, without which his efforts would probably be frustrated. The right hon. gentleman described the arrangements which he thought necessary, with a view to provide for the due execution of the law respecting grand jury presentments, and to guard against any faults or defaults on the part of county treasurers. These arrangements were; first, that security should be had from all county treasurers to the full amount of the sums which they were to receive, and that such securities should be examined and approved of by the law officers of the Crown, while the securities for barony treasurers should be examined and approved of by some subordinate authority;—2ndly, that no one who was to account to a grand jury should be allowed
l568Mr. M. Fitzgerald
 objected to the provisions of the bill which had been withdrawn, as well as to some arrangements proposed by the right hon. gentleman who spoke last.Mr. L. Foster
 maintained that the system of grand jury presentments was highly advantageous to Ireland in promoting its internal improvement.Lord Desart
569 expressed his con-
569Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 rose, to move the order of the day, that the House resolve itself into a committee to take into consideration the Employment of the Poor bill. He had introduced a considerable number of amendments into the bill, which he thought would remove some of the objections stated against the measure. He would not enter at present into the merits of those amendments, as a better opportunity would hereafter occur.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 declared his opinion of the necessity of reforming the system of grand jury presentments, which operated as grievous and unjust taxes on the counties; but he did not think any good would be done till the sheriffs who appointed the grand juries were themselves nominated in a more unexceptionable way. The sheriffs were not nominated, as in England, from the recommendation of the grand panel, but for electioneering purposes, and the sheriff so appointed secured the influence of the ministerial candidate by appointing grand jurymen as a matter of favour. He inculcated the necessity of resorting to the system established in this country.General Malthew
l.571 said, he had not been in the House when this measure was originally brought forward, but, from the fullest consideration which he was able to give it, he could see no advantage whatever that it was capable of producing; but he saw very many objections to it. The remark of his hon. and learned friend, with respect to the influence it would throw into the hands of government, in the event of a general election, he thought well worthy of consideration. One million and three-fourths distributed by ministers might certainly tend to create influence, and excite a bias that ought to be guarded against. But he felt other objections to the measure. First, it would excite expectations that must be miserably disappointed. The lower classes were naturally induced by the proposal of relief from government, to look for immediate and effectual deliverance from their present difficulties. This expectation could not be realized, and therefore the measure would cause only a cruel disappointment. Besides, it taught the poor to look at their more opulent neighbours, and to view them as, in fact, the prevention of relief being extended to them by the go-
l.571Mr. Western
572 admitted, that the objections stated by the hon. and learned gentleman were not entirely removed by any thing that was done, and could not be removed by any thing that could be done; but as to the constitutional objection, if should be recollected that the money was not to be issued by his majesty's ministers individually; and the apprehension of exercising any influence through the commissioners was removed by the independent and honourable character of those commissioners. He would not now enter into the minor details, but he would mention that there were several clauses, introduced for authorizing to dispense, in certain cases, with private security, for special securities of various kinds. The general principle, of the measure was, not to help those who had already credit or capital, but to give relief where there was a temporary deficiency of credit. This was in many instances the case. Whether it was occasioned, or whether it was increased, by the usury laws, he would
572The Chancellor of the Exchequer
573 observed, that, after the appointment of commissioners, and commissioners of the highest character, it would be bold and enterprising indeed in the chancellor of the exchequer, or the secretary for foreign affairs, to apply to those commissioners for the promotion of any political purposes. As to what the hon. member for Essex had said, respecting the danger of charging persons with poor-rates in consequence of this measure, who would not otherwise be liable, he thought that, though some cases of this sort might happen, there could not be many. In most instances, recourse to the poor-rates could be avoided; but in some cases personal security upon the poor-rates would be required. To extend credit in this way
573Mr. Rose
 explained, that personal security was not abandoned; it was only put under certain modifications.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 strongly recommended a general survey of the land in Ireland, with a view to the fair execution of the law with respect to presentments.Mr. D. Browne
l.l.l.l565§d.sl.sl.d.s.l.d.sl.d.sl.l.l.564563 said, that among the many evils that would result from postponing the Grand Jury Presentment bill, there was none that would be more felt than the want of the regulations therein proposed for treasurers and collectors of public money; before, however, he adverted particularly to that object, he would take the liberty of making a few observations upon other matters connected with it. And first he would once more, and once for all, deny that he had exceeded his duty in bringing forward a comprehensive measure; the very words of the report of the committee recommended a comprehensive measure. One great evil arising from the grand jury laws as they stand was the want of a previous examination into the necessity or expediency of the works proposed to be executed. This part of the evil was proposed to be remedied by submitting these matters to a previous meeting of magistrates—the principal objections he had heard to this part of the bill was as to the power given to magistrates in some cases to cancel such proposed presentments as they did not approve; this might have been a very fit subject of discussion in a committee; his opinion had been hitherto governed by the idea that if there was no power given to these meetings they would not be attended by the principal gentlemen whose presence was so desirable.—The next part of the subject he would notice was the proposed meeting of the grand jury for the consideration of the civil business of the country, disentangled from the criminal business and other important matters; the difference of opinion that he had found on this part of the subject was as to the time, some thinking that it should be before, and others after the general assize business—this also would have been it matter for discussion in a committee; his reason for preferring the former was, that by that means they should have the advantage of the control of the judges, without inconvenience to those personages. With respect to the circuit surveyor which was recommended, and
l.l.l.l565§d.sl.sl.d.s.l.d.sl.d.sl.l.l.564563Mr. Cooper
 explained, that he by no means apprehended any sinister influence on the part of the commissioners. The money could not be issued all at once; the election might take place while the commissioners were sitting; many persons would intend to-make application and expect assistance; in such a state of things an influence would necessarily be in operation, which the principles of our constitution required us to regard with jealousy.Mr. Brougham
l.570 had, at the introduction of this measure, expressed some difficulties he felt on the subject. He feared those difficulties were still unremoved. He would willingly give the right hon. gentleman an opportunity of forwarding his bill, and reserve his remarks till it was recommitted; but a few prominent objections he wished at this time to state. First, as to the constitutional objections to the measure, he did think it extremely objectionable that a million and three-fourths of money should be issued by the government to the people at a time when we were upon the eve of an event which would call upon the people to exercise their judgment respecting the character and measures of that government—he meant a dissolution of parliament, which would probably take place a few months after their rising. A second objection was as to the principle of the bill itself. It was a remedy for an evil not felt, while it afforded no remedy of the real evil that was universally and deeply felt. It was not money that was wanted; there was a superabundance of money in the country, but no employment for it. This bill only offered money, but could not find employment for the idle capital already in the country. Not only would the bill afford no remedy, but it would increase the difficulty at present felt. He
l.570Mr. Brougham
l. thought the object of this measure was of the narrowest kind; and the benefit must, therefore, be likewise very narrow. The principal benefit proposed was to supply public works with capital, where it was wanting. The undertakings which required such aid were not many. If any undertaking was really promising, capital would readily be lent upon the credit of it. For such, therefore, it was not necessary to interpose the credit of government; for those of a different character it was improper to interpose it. The evil at the present moment was too much capital. This was proved by the price of exchequer bills and the state of the funds. It was not capital, therefore, that was wanting; still Jess was it credit. Whatever could by this measure be got from government, could, upon the same security, be got from the market. In no way possible could this measure produce any effect, unless the amount of the exchequer bills were reduced, and they were thrown without any charge of interest into the currency of the country, If 1,750,000l.Mr. J. P. Grant
574 could not view any constitutional danger in the measure. It was not in issuing the money that he saw difficulty and danger, but in paying it back again. He was thoroughly convinced the object of the bill would totally fail. To large companies no assistance would be given, for they had already enough of capital. He understood the right hon. gentleman had abandoned the idea of taking private personal security; of this he approved. If the government could come in with private creditors, and issue extents to recover its claims, the evil would be most serious. The government would have a preference over the other creditors, and thus throw them out of their original station. He believed the hon. member for Essex had made extremely just observations on the effect of the measure, in aggravating the pressure of the poor-rates, Is effect in this view was most mischievous. It would prevent the possibility of reducing or alleviating this corroding evil. If the occupiers of land could expect relief by mortgaging the poor-rates, there would be mutual forbearance, mutual arrangements, mutual agreements, and mutual evasions, so as to destroy the best interests of the poorer classes. Wherever security could be given, that was, wherever distress was not extreme, we should do what we could. Where relief was indispensable, it was ra-
574Mr. Lockhart
 denied that at present the sheriffs in Ireland were appointed for party purposes. The out going sheriff gave three names of persons of respectability to the judges at the assizes, and soon after the chancellor and judges met to chat over together who were the fittest persons to serve the office. He denied also, especially in the county to which he belonged, that persons were chosen on grand juries for the purpose of jobbing.Sir F. Flood
 supported the motion, and thought some measure highly necessary.Sir N. Colthurst
 concurred in this recommendation, and while he highly approved of the principles of the law with regard to grand jury presentments, expressed his regret to find that this law, was very much abused. The amount of the assessments under grand jury presentments was considerable, and as those assessments bore very hard upon the occupiers of land, or the peasantry, it was peculiarly necessary to provide that such assessments should not be improperly applied. Mow he understood, that even within the last year, no less than three county treasurers had failed, while their securities were found inefficient to supply their defaults. This was a serious grievance, which, however, had long been suffered to prevail in Ireland. There were, indeed, great defaults in that country among public accountants, which were due for many years, and which he feared were never likely to be received, especially from the improvident manner in which securities had been arranged by those Crown lawyers whose duty it was to attend to such subjects.Sir J. Newport
576 said, he had not known the name of the gentleman in command at Carlisle, and of course could not have meant to cast any reflection on his conduct. It however appeared, that all the facts in the Carlisle Journal had been correctly stated, for he (sir F. B.) had not stated it as an assertion of the Carlisle Journal, but merely as a possible supposition that the man had committed suicide to avoid receiving the remainder of his
576Sir F. Burdett
—577 after observing that the present act for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus would expire in July, and that the middle of May being now at hand, a period was approaching at which, according to all experience, a number of members would retire into the country, begged to ask the noble lord opposite if it was the intention of his majesty's ministers to apply to parliament for a farther extension of the power of imprisonment which had already been given them? He hoped the noble
577Mr. Ponsonby,
 replied, that after the holydays, about the 1st of June, a communication would be made to the House concerning the internal state of the country; after which the same proceeding would be proposed as had taken place in the early part of the session, and it would be referred to a committee to enter into an inquiry as to the measures proper to be pursued. After the question put by the right hon. gentleman, without any wish to provoke a discussion, or to commit the House to a premature declaration of its sentiments, he felt it his duty, under the circumstances the House had been placed in by the question of the right hon. gentleman, to state, that his majesty's ministers, in the present situation of the country, thought themselves called on to propose to parliament a continuance of the measure now in operation [Cries of hear, hear!].Lord Castlereagh
 said, he was as willing that there should be a call as the hon. gentleman could be.Lord Castlereagh
 repeated, that a communication would be made, to the House, after which a committee would be proposed for the purpose of making an inquiry, as at the beginning of the session; after which, his majesty's ministers would propose to parliament a continuation of the measure now in force.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that there could he no doubt what would be the result of the inquiry. But he should first move for a list of the persons confined under the present act.Sir F. Burdett
l.,l.,592l.,l.,l.,l.d.s.s.591l.,l.,d.s.d.s.l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,590l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,589l.,l.,l.,l.,d.d.s.s.l.,l.,s.l.,l.,d.s.d.s.l.,l.,l.,l.,588l.,l., rose and observed, that the right hon. baronet could not claim credit for such extraordinary exertions on the part of Ireland, consistently with his assertion, that the revenue had been so very materially unproductive.—It is not denied, that upon the whole of the nett revenue of the last year, as compared with the year preceding, there appears a decrease of 1,191,800l.,l.,592l.,l.,l.,l.d.s.s.591l.,l.,d.s.d.s.l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,590l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,l.,589l.,l.,l.,l.,d.d.s.s.l.,l.,s.l.,l.,d.s.d.s.l.,l.,l.,l.,588l.,l.,Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald
l.594593 said, that, the right hon. gentleman objected to the resolutions of his right hon. friend, because he thought they conveyed an imputation on the conduct of government and the House. His right hon. friend meant no such thing: his first object was to show the true state of the Irish finances; his second to prove that any increase of taxation, so far from increasing the revenue of that country, would only injure its resources. The right hon. gentleman had taken credit to himself, and given credit to parliament, for the liberality and wisdom of the consolidation act, with which Great Britain charged herself with a part of the debt of Ireland.
l.594593Mr. Ponsonby
l.,595 said, that whatever might have been the nature of the resolutions moved by the right hon. baronet, and whatever might be the accuracy of the facts contained in those resolutions, he should have thought the
l.,595The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was surprised, that the resolutions of his right hon. friend should be construed as any imputation on the financial administration Of Ireland, when in the speech by which the motion was preceded, he had paid a very high compliment to the conduct of those who administered the Irish finances. The only view which his right hon. friend had in moving the resolutions, and the only ground on which he (Mr. F.) supported them was to put the House in possession of proper information as to the state of Ireland.Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
597 declared, that he had never contemplated any such object as that alluded to by the noble lord. His bill was
597Mr. Ponsonby
 said, the suggestion was thrown out by a learned gentleman (Mr. Brougham, on the other side of the House, and, under existing circumstances, it appeared to him to be worthy of serious attention.Lord Castlereagh
 said, he had never had it in contemplation to render his measure a source of public supply. Its object was entirely limited to the relief of individuals, who, as the law stood, might be called upon to pay fees for which he saw no reason. He certainly had wished to make the bill a permanent one, but he must declare he saw no relation between its principle and that of a measure to prevent a dissolution of parliament taking place in the same event. He considered this pretended analogy, therefore, as a mere pretence; and would rather disappoint those who were looking to the bill with hope, although his majesty might yet outlive the gayest and most ambitious amongst them, than see it made the instrument of so extraordinary a design.Mr. Ponsonby
600 did not expect that the measure would have given rise to the views which some seemed to have taken of it. The tendency of the argument used by the right hon. gentleman that because the Prince Regent performed the duties of the
600Mr. Ponsonby
l., did not apprehend that it would make any material difference in elections, whether the idea which had been thrown out should be adopted or not. It was well-known that the great majority of the returns to that House were carried by money; and whatever might be the circumstances under which a dissolution might take place, the same influence would prevail. He held in his hand accounts, containing charges against him which amounted to more than 5,700l.,Lord Cochrane
 said, that the suggestion alluded to was thrown out by an hon. and learned gentleman (Mr. Brougham), whose voice was not a little attended to in that House, and his noble friend (lord Lascelles) had merely introduced it, on this occasion, for the consideration of the House. The right hon. gentleman then shortly argued that there was a strong analogy between the situation of those persons whom the bill contemplated, and parliament; and that, perhaps, it would he wise to extend the same measure to both.Mr. Bathurst
 then moved, that the House be called over the 2nd of June.Mr. Philips
 said, as the matter was of the utmost importance, and demanded a full attendance, he should move for a call of the House.Mr. Philips
598 did not understand what relation there was between the bill then before the committee, and the non-dissolution of parliament. Undoubtedly it would be a very pleasant thing for ministers, if, on the demise of the Crown, parliament were not to be dissolved. The noble lord seemed to feel that; and, therefore, an observation from a gentleman on his (Mr. T's.) side of the House was made the peg to hang this suggestion on. He could not conceive a more dangerous suggestion, come from whom it would. When the people, in all parts of the country, were seeking to shorten the duration of parliament, ministers, it seemed, wanted to do away one of the few opportunities that occurred of exercising their elective franchise. He differed from his right hon. friend in the provisions of his bill. He did not approve of the idea of remitting, altogether, the fees payable by certain officers to the Crown. His way of looking at the subject was this—not to suffer those fees to swell the pockets of individuals, but to appropriate them to the service of the country. He would not let many thousands be added, on the demise of the Crown, to the funds of those, who, in the ordinary course of things, would receive them, but he would hare those fees carried to the consolidated fund. When he said this, he did not allude to the fees payable by officers of the army and navy, but to those which were exacted from persons holding high patent offices—which they entered, well knowing, that, on the demise of the Crown, they would be subject to this increase of expense. He was well convinced that ministers would be very
598Mr. Tierney
 hoped, that some member, of more weight than himself, would give notice of a motion for an address, praying his royal highness the prince regent not to dissolve parliament while the Habeas Corpus Act was under suspension.Mr. Brougham
—Am I then to understand, that a committee is to inquire, and that this is to be the result of the inquiry?Mr. Brougham.
 asked, whether it was the noble lord's intention, after the holy-days, to propose a committee, as in the early part of the session, or to proceed without a committee?Mr. Brougham
 said, the suggestion did not originate with him; it was thrown out on a former debate, he did not know by whom.Lord Lascelles
 never intended to introduce any such measure in or out of the committee; although he had certainly held for a long time the opinion he had expressed. He argued, that there was an analogy between the objects contemplated by the bill, and the continuance of parliament (the government being now in the hands of the Prince Regent) on the demise of the Crown.Lord Lascelles
 observed, it had been suggested, that it might be proper to introduce into this bill a clause providing for the continuance of the parliament for a certain period, in case of the demise of the Crown. This suggestion he thought deserving of attention.Lord Lascelles
 said, the learned gentleman seamed to think him a greater enemy to the constitution than he felt himself to be. He meant not to give a perpetual advantage to ministers—the suggestion, which did not originate with him, went only to the present king and the present situation of the country, which, through the indisposition of his majesty, was governed by the Prince Regent.Lord Lascelles
l. after reminding the House that the first law-officer of Scotland had stated, that the conspiracies at Glasgow were not confined to the poorer classes of the community, said, that he knew that only one person above the rank of an operative weaver had been taken up, and that person had declared that he had no communication whatever with any political clubs; 3,000l.Mr. J. P. Grant,
 observed, that if the punishment was for absence from duty, it proceeded on just grounds; but if the man disappeared to get married, and afterwards returned to his duty, his absence ought not to have been dealt with as if he had been guilty of desertion. As the man could not have been charged with desertion, it seemed that he had been punished for disobeying his officer's injunction not to marry.Mr. W. Smith
 explained, that he had never mentioned the word "desertion;" he had carefully stated what was the fact, that the man had been tried for absenting himself from his duty.Mr. M. Sutton
—575 said, that seeing an hon. baronet in his place, he should call the attention of the House to the circumstances of a case of military punishment which the hon. baronet had a few days ago spoken of, as having been related in the Carlisle Journal. The facts then stated by the hon. baronet were, that a private in the dragoons had married without leave; that for this he had been sentenced to receive corporal punishment; that he received a part of his sentence, and under the apprehension that he should receive the remainder, had committed suicide. Now, the facts asserted in the statement of the Carlisle Journal, which he should call a libel on the army, were incorrect. He had made inquiries on the subject, and had received a detailed account of the circumstances of the case:—a private in the 13th dragoons, stationed at Carlisle, had asked the consent of his commanding officer to marry, and had been refused. It was not to be understood by this, that if a soldier wished to marry, it was necessary that he should have the consent of his commanding officer, or that he would
575Mr. Manners Sutton
 contended, that Ireland having, through the whole of the arduous contest in which the empire was engaged, submitted without a murmur to the severe taxation under which it laboured, had now a right to expect, and from one end of it to the other did expect, a relaxation. The window duty, when first imposed was declared to be a war tax, and though it was subsequently raised to the same standard as in England, yet now that peace had arrived, not a word was heard of its repeal. He trusted, therefore, that the chancellor of the exchequer would direct his attention to the pressure of Ireland, and most particularly to the revision of the whole system of collecting the taxes. The hearth tax, though at the Revolution exploded as to England, from its infringement on the rights of the subject, was still maintained in Ireland, and was peculiarly oppressive from the conduct of the officers employed in its collection. It had been justly observed by his right hon. friend (sir J. Newport), that the importation of British manufactures had fallen off in Ireland to the amount of two millions. And he begged to inform the House, that the export of corn from Ireland had suffered a diminution to the same amount. He was anxious to impress this coincidence on the manufacturing branches of this country, as from that consideration, they would be enabled to judge of the fallacy of their views on a measure, that on a former occasion, he had submitted to the House (the corn bill), and be at length convinced, that in proportion as they injured the agricultural interests of that country, they diminished the market for the sale of their own goods.Sir H. Parnell
599 said, there certainly would be some analogy between the objects of the bill, and that which the noble lord adverted to, if members of parliament were appointed by the Crown and not by the people. But otherwise there was none whatever. The subject of a non-dissolution of parliament, on the demise of the Crown, ought not to be taken up lightly. If proposed at all, it ought to be proposed after sufficient notice had been given for its full consideration. The principle that, on the demise of the Crown, parliament should be dissolved was connected with one practical benefit of great importance. On every other termination of parliament, the ministers of the down had an advantage over their opponents; because they
599Sir James Mackintosh
 did not mean to impugn the constitutional principle of the noble lord. All he had said was, that the tendency of the suggestion was adverse to the constitution; and nothing he had since heard could cause him to recede from that opinion. For the sentiments of Ins learned friend he had the highest respect, and he would listen to them with attention; but, he conceived, that it would demand his utmost powers of ingenuity to shake the conviction, so deeply rooted in his mind, that the measure alluded to was fundamentally opposite to the principles of the British constitution.Sir James Mackintosh
596 closed the debate by saying, that he did not feel the least neces-
596Sir John Newport
†Imports into Ireland of British manufactures, official value:**l.l.;l.;l.;*581580579 rose, and addressed the House, nearly as follows:†Imports into Ireland of British manufactures, official value:**l.l.;l.;l.;*581580579Sir John Newport
l observed, that this clause had excited more discussion than any other in the bill. Though many persons connected with the saving banks were persuaded that it was essential to the prosperity of the institutions, he should not have been disposed to press it, if a decided opinion appeared against it. The objections to it were much obviated by a limitation introduced, forbidding parish relief to be given to any person who had more than 30lMr. Rose
 jun. supported the clause. In his opinion it would have a material tendency to create a spirit of independence in the breast of the poor man; and that was an object of the greatest importance to the interests of the man himself, as well as to the country.Mr. C. Grant
ds was of opinion, that the bill should proceed no farther in the present session, but that in the next something might be done. The difference in the actual state of interest upon exchequer bills, which was fixed by the present bill, amounted to 10dsGeneral Thornton
 said, the sense of the country was not against the bill. Petitions had been presented from three places only against it, Norwich, St. Paul's Covent-garden, and Hertford, and he believed the majority of the petitioners were now satisfied upon the subject of the bill.Mr. Rose
683 objected to the innovation attempted to be introduced by giving parish relief to persons not absolutely in-
683Mr. Western
 thought, the parish funds would be so benefited by the introduction of saving banks, that the protection afforded those institutions would rather tend to benefit those funds than to press on them.Mr. Barclay
 objected to the clause, as likely to destroy every hope of exciting a spirit of independence. It would be less degrading than ever to receive parish relief, if it was once generally extended to and accepted by those who had property of their own. Besides, the contributors to benefit societies hitherto had never been deterred from contributing by the fear that they should therefore lose all claim to parish relief; that idea had rather stimulated than slackened their exertions to save.Mr. Philips
dss wished well to the bill, but felt much difficulty with respect to the two clauses under consideration. The first, however, he would pass over; but his objection to the second was invincible. It was an application, or rather a misapplication of the poor-rates, not to support the poor, but to give premiums for certain savings. The practical evil was, he admitted, small, but the principle was inadmissible. When a person had contributed for three years, he was to be entitled to a premium of 6dssMr. Brougham
 thought the clause could not pass in its present state. As the law now stood, it was never imperative on the overseer to grant parish relief without an order from two justices. By the clause before the House, it was made imperative, in the case of persons having money in saving banks, unless two justices made an order to the contrary. He was not aware that justices were in the habit of making negative orders.Mr. Lockhart
 was in favour of the clause, because the measure was not more for the encouragement of the industrious than for the reformation of the dissolute and thoughtless, with whom the motive here held forth might operate.Mr. Preston
684 objected to the general principles of the bill, on the ground that it would hot answer the great end intended by it. It did not adequately provide for the evil of non-residence, and still left the clergy at the mercy of the informers. He took a view of the number of non-residents for a series of years, and said he was happy to find that the number of residents had materially increased within the last year. He regretted that
684Mr. Babington
 objected to the clause. The object of saving banks, was to induce the people to look to other sources than the poor-rates; and if the poor man was subject to lose his hard-earned savings, from illness, he had rather induce him to apply to the rich for their charitable assistance, for thus a feeling of benevolence on the one hand, and gratitude on the other, would be kept up.Mr. Brand
682 said, that in considering this question, in the committee, it had been agreed that the effect of the poor laws was, to give the improvident a right over the industry and property of others: the natural effect of this was, to increase dependence and mendicity; but while it was desirable to obviate the ill effect of these laws, it was necessary to encourage by every means a desire to do without their assistance. If the poor man thought that his small savings were to be swallowed up by the first fit of sickness, he would be entirely disheartened from saving at all. The ease might be different if the poor laws had never existed: but after having given a bounty en improvidence to
682Mr. Huskisson
 in reply to an objection that this bill might interfere with other benefit societies, said, that in other societies the sole object was relief in sickness and distress; in this it was the accumulation of principal; there could, therefore, be no interference.Mr. Sturges Bourne,
 approved of the clause before the House, but as to the clause giving premiums, he had considerable doubts.Mr. Wilberforce
681 thought that the clause, if it passed into a law, would put the gentlemen who undertook the guidance of these institutions in a degraded condition, as they were thus declared not trustworthy, but were compelled to vest the money in a manner marked out for them,
681Sir C. Monck
 approved of the clause on tin's very ground, as it took away responsibility as to the disposal of the money, from the gentleman connected with saving banks.Sir J. Newport
lmulta gemens defended the bill, which he thought preferable to the law enacted in 1803. That law was, no doubt, founded upon a proposition which he had the honour to submit to the House, and which he brought forward lmulta gemensSir William Scott
685 objected to the bill, first, because it proposed to confer upon the bishops the power of enforcing the residence of the clergy, while those bishops themselves were frequently nonresident—while, indeed, one bishop in Wales never resided upon his diocese as all (the bishop of Llandaff); secondly, because the bishops being so often nonresident had no opportunity of acquiring a competent knowledge of the qualifications of the clergy: and thirdly, because the arbitrary power which this bill proposed to create was but too likely to lead to great illiberality and injustice.685Lord Ebrington
 was inclined on the whole to approve of the clause before the House. As property in many shapes might be concealed from the overseers of the poor, and as money deposited in saving banks would be always known to them, it was not fair to lay persons thus depositing money under a disadvantage. As to the clause giving premiums out of the parish funds, he should object to it.Lord Milton
 said, that none of the objections to this bill had been removed. It was so bad in its principle, and so objectionable in all its branches, that the House must feel ashamed of it, and consider themselves bound in honour to reject it. He would therefore move that it be read a third time this day six months.Mr. Lyttelton
 could not allow that opportunity to pass without bearing his testimony against the bill. The bad principle and the injurious effects of lottery bills had been always perceived and denounced by the wise and good. The aversion to their continuance had of late made great progress. The higher classes reprobated them, and the lower were beginning to see their ruinous tendency. They were not productive of much benefit to the state, and were most injurious to the morals and industry of the people. He, therefore, hoped the hon. gentleman who had signalized himself by his opposition to these measures, would soon behold his wishes realized by the abandonment of lotteries as a source of revenue.Mr. Wilberforce
l agreed, that lottery bills were most injurious to morals, and at the same time were not good financial measures; yet he thought the bill should pass at this time, for this reason, because none of the hon. gentlemen on the other side had pointed out any other mode of raising the money which the lottery supplied [a laugh]. Gentlemen might laugh, but he considered a deficiency in the revenue a great evil, and the deficiency created by rejecting this bill would be 500,000lMr. J. W. Ward
 said, he had been fully convinced of the insufficiency and injurious effects of such bills by the arguments of the hon. gentleman who spoke last on a former occasion. Those arguments were forcible and unanswerable. They were that night to consider of a compensation to the Crown for sinecure offices. Why should not that compensation embrace the lottery bill? Surely it was more essentially necessary to protect the morals of the people than to give a compensation to the Crown for sinecure places.Lord A. Hamilton
 affirmed, that as a source of revenue the lottery never produced one half the sum annually mentioned by the hon. member.Mr. Grenfell
 said, that as the right hon. gentleman had already made so large an issue of exchequer bills, he did not see any real inconvenience that would result from raising the proposed sum by an extension of that system.Mr. Tierney
ll.,688 adverted to the clause in the lottery bill, by which the bank directors were entitled to a remuneration for the management of the money paid by the lottery contractors, He observed, that after repeated and ineffectual efforts to obtain the attention of government to the
ll.,688Mr. Grenfell
 assured the hon. member that if he could propose during the next session, a more economical mode of managing the lottery than the manner at present pursued, he would attend to the suggestion. In that advanced stage of the bill, it was too late for any experiment.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that it was the principle of our ancestors not to allow revenue to stand in the way of public morals. The reverse was the practice of the present day; for in the estimation of the chancellor of the exchequer, the morals of the people went for nothing, when revenue was the object.Sir J. Newport
 said, the act of king William adverted only to private lotteries.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 contended, that the words of the statute were private lotteries and all others. It went farther: it declared them to be common and public nuisances. That was the law even at the present hour, although it was evaded by these annual licences. Indeed, as the law now stood, all persons in any way concerned in planning and executing lotteries were declared to be common rogues.Mr. B. Moreland
689 thought the chancellor
689Mr. Brougham
 said, that on the first or second day of the meeting of the House after the adjournment, a communication would be made to it from the Crown, upon which he should feel it his duty to move the revival of the committee which sat on the former occasion. He should do so, because he conceived that those gentlemen who had gone into the previous examination would be best qualified to pursue an inquiry into what had since passed in the country.Lord Castlereagh
686 replied, that as the present act would not expire till the 1st of July, it would be desirable to look at the state of the country down to the latest possible period, in order to guide their judgments in what future course it might be judged most expedient to adopt. He
686Lord Castlereagh
700699 was of opinion, that the present bill, enabling the Crown to compensate meritorious services, whilst it was deprived of the sinecure offices which were heretofore at its disposal, instead of proving injurious, would be found beneficial to the country. He agreed that the quantum of compensation to be granted was a fit subject for consideration, and he was ready to go into this, when the bill arrived at the committee. The hon. and learned gentleman had contended, that the Crown had already sufficient means for rewarding meritorious services, and that more were unnecessary. He (Mr. Bankes) was of a different opinion. When it was remembered that the power of the Crown in this respect was limited in 1782, the decrease in the value of money considered, it could not be a matter of surprise that more should be now wanted. In some of the hereditary revenues of the Crown there had been a falling off. The; effect of the present bill would be to prevent
700699Mr. Bankes
701 objected to the whole of the bills, and the principle on which they proceeded, which went to denude the Crown of the means which it ought to possess of rewarding public services. The consequence of these bills must be to make every man carry with him into office the
701Mr. Douglas
 opposed the present bill, as he thought no compensation ought to be granted for offices like those which were to be taken from the Crown, since, in his opinion, they ought never to have formed a part of its patronage. Without these sinecures it appeared to him the Crown possessed sufficient means of rewarding meritorious services. But he would ask, if there was nothing in the present circumstance of the country, that ought to call upon ministers to curtail the public expenditure? Could it be supposed that the people would be satisfied with what was now proposed to be done? His opinion was, that they would not, and thinking the power of the compensation proposed, to be given quite unnecessary, he should vote against the bill.Lord A. Hamilton
690 expressed his unwillingness to strip the Crown of the means of rewarding public services. That public services ought to be rewarded, was the opinion of the finance committee. There might be a difference of opinion on the manner in which those rewards should be conferred, but in the propriety of granting them, none could be entertained. Weak as he was himself, his ideas on this subject were supported by the authority of that great champion of retrenchment, Mr. Burke. When he brought forward his bill in 1782, he did not look to those sweeping measures which were now contemplated. He would go farther back, to the year 1780. In his speech, delivered at that time, which was on record, so far from condemning those offices, as injurious to the public, he considered it a matter of vital importance to retain them: and observed, that it was right the Crown should have the means of rewarding public services, in a way which even its own caprice could not afterwards recall. Those, he said, who retired from the bustle of public life, should be put beyond a precarious reliance on political friends; and, above all, beyond the operation of the inconstancy of princely favour. The committee had discovered but four classes of individuals, containing twenty-one persons, who were entitled to be rewarded for their services, by the sovereign. He decidedly objected to the conclusion to which the committee had come, in thus contracting the power of the Crown in one of its most grateful departments. The criterion of service was now the length of time during which office had been enjoyed. But, looking to the history of the country, individuals might be found, who had done more real public service in a short period, than
690Mr. Boswell
 said, if it was important to communicate at all the intelligence possessed by his majesty's ministers, he could not understand why it should not be now communicated. If, however, the noble lord wished to have the advantage of any chances that might arise in the interim, it was very well; but one thing was certain —something very terrible was to be brought forward on the 2nd of June.Mr. Tierney
 observed, that if the country was in such a dangerous state as to require the further suspension of the Habeas Corpus, and if ministers were in possession of the facts which rendered that measure necessary, it was most extraordinary that any delay should occur in making the communication. He always thought it was the duty of ministers to come forward immediately with their intelligence; but now they contented themselves with giving notice that they would frighten the House that day fortnight, and not before.Mr. Tierney
698697696695ll694ll in possession of the House. He considered that application ought to be made to parliament, to enable the Crown to make provision for public services, as each case should arise, and be examined on its own peculiar circumstances. He objected to the present plan, because it was systematic and prospective, investing the Crown with an annuity of about 42,000698697696695ll694llMr. Brougham
 did not rise to vindicate his own consistency, as he should vote on the present occasion as he had done in 1812. From the Crown it was intended to take certain sinecures, which it had long had the right of granting, and therefore to him it appeared that some compensation ought to be given for that which was now to be put under the regulation of parliament. Feeling that the bill was founded on strict justice and sound policy, it would have his support.Mr. J. H. Smyth
 inquired of the noble lord opposite, whether his majesty's government had come to a determination upon what day they intended to submit the proposition for a further continuance of the act for suspending the Habeas Corpus?Sir M. W. Ridley
693l692 declared it to be his intention to give this measure all the opposition in his power. He was not desirous of singling out this particular bill, but was willing to consider it as only part of one entire proceeding, which he could view in no other light than a gross, although he hoped a vain attempt to delude the public. The reports of the finance committee professed but little, and did not perform what they professed. They had declared that there were offices which required regulation, but, with courtly politeness, they left it to the treasury to determine to what extent and in what manner. He doubted not the treasury would act as they had done in regulating the household and the civil list; that is, that they would add new appointments, and enlarge former salaries. It was with feelings of pain he disagreed with some of his hon. friends upon particular points connected with this subject; but he could see no reason why an abuse which had existed ten years, should be allowed to continue twenty more. Our ancestors had frequently reversed the improvident grants of the Crown, and never did the circumstances of the country so imperiously require the observance of a similar conduct on the part of parliament. When the question was, to rob the people of those rights which constituted their most valuable possession, the delay of a few days was considered to be too much; but when the question was to take away pensions from those who rendered no service, and were entitled to no reward, the House was told that they must wait till the grants expired which was not till those expired who enjoyed them. As if even these tardy benefits were envied, the present scheme of compensation was devised; a scheme which described no natural bounds, and which would, therefore, probably be carried much farther than its letter allowed. To him it
693l692Sir Robert Heron
691 wished only to say a few words on a measure which he thought would have met with no opposition; and he would not have said any thing at all, had he not been induced to animadvert on some parts of the hon. gentleman's speech. He had quoted Mr. Burke's speech on the civil list; but he had totally misapprehended him. If he (lord M.) had any fault to find with the committee, it was because they had not viewed the whole subject so comprehensively as Mr. Burke, but had taken scraps and shreds of his principles. The hon. gentleman had said, that Mr. Burke was against the abolition of sinecures, and quoted a part of his speech that seemed to countenance that idea; but had he read the whole, he would have seen that Mr. Burke, in advising the alienation of the Crown lands, contemplated the abolition of this very office of the justices in eyre, as one of the beneficial consequences of that measure. "Thus," said he, "would fall the justiceship in eyre," &c. Mr. Burke thus not only recommended the abolition of these sinecures, but the removal of the very foundation on which they rested. The hon. gentleman had said, that the proposed system of abolition would make inroads on the constitution, but these sinecures, were no parts of the constitution. As efficient offices, they were parts of our government formerly; as sinecures, they were now none. He was as little disposed to yield
691Lord Milton
 rose to present a petition agreed to at a meeting of the inhabitants of Cork and its vicinity, praying for a reform in parliament. The petition touched on the dreadful state of distress which was prevalent in that part of the empire, and prayed for a reform in parliament, as the best means of alleviating the deplorable situation of the petitioners, who compiained, that persons could not leave the country, neither could they procure employment in it.Sir F. Burdett
729728727forupon726725And rule the country, kingdoms once our own?Or shall we mount again the rural Throne,No more our homes and smiling fields to see?Are we condemned by fate's unjust decree,Nor e'en with length of rolling years return?Must we, then, wretched exiles, ever mourn,724**723722721720ex-officioex-officioex-officio719718717decided majority716**715714713712711710709708§ought to be."was,707706705 rose, to bring forward his promised motion upon the subject of a
729728727forupon726725And rule the country, kingdoms once our own?Or shall we mount again the rural Throne,No more our homes and smiling fields to see?Are we condemned by fate's unjust decree,Nor e'en with length of rolling years return?Must we, then, wretched exiles, ever mourn,724**723722721720ex-officioex-officioex-officio719718717decided majority716**715714713712711710709708§ought to be."was,707706705Sir Francis Burdett
756755754753 said, that after the speech of the hon. baronet, the mover, and of the hon. seconder of the motion, it would appear presumption in him to offer any observations in elucidation of that
756755754753Lord Cochrane
783782781780779778777776775maximized.minimized:774"lingua franca"Quere,773772771770769768767766765764763new.annual,762761760759 rose and said:783782781780779778777776775maximized.minimized:774"lingua franca"Quere,773772771770769768767766765764763new.annual,762761760759The Hon. J. W. Ward
812 expressed much regret at having to differ from those friends with whom he generally acted; but were he to vote for sending these petitions to a committee, he should give countenance to a proposition which he denied, namely, that the distresses complained of originated in the defects of the representation. He was by no means, however, prepared to reject all plans of reform that might be proposed; and he declared his readiness
812Mr. Plunkett
811810809808l.807806805804 said, he should not have risen to trouble the House at that late hour, or indeed at all, had it not been for the many allusions made that evening to him by the hon. member opposite as the author of all the mischief attendant on the proposition for reform on a former occasion; but having been referred to by his hon. friend (Mr. Ward) in so pointed a manner, he could not avoid throwing himself on the indulgence of the House for a few minutes. He had often heard this question discussed, and at an early period of life had made known his sentiments respecting it; and these he might say had never essentially varied down to the present time. He had come to the House intending to give a silent vote in favour of a motion which pledged the House to no plan, and only required that the subject should be investigated and the principle recognized. Having when young supported the cause, he was now happy, at an advanced period of life, to be found in the rank where he had first enlisted. No man could look back five and twenty years without perceiving that his feelings and opinions had undergone some alteration. He must have been a wise man, indeed, who could say with truth, that he foresaw all the events that had within that period occurred, and had been prepared for the consequences. Four and twenty years had elapsed since the date of the petition, to which reference had been made; but without having recently read more of it than parts he had seen extracted, he could venture to say that he still concurred in it in the main— he might, perhaps, even go as far as to declare, that he abided by it in the whole. Without vanity he might say, that he thought highly of that petition, because, in point of fact, it was not his production as had been supposed: it was the work of a Committee, of which, it was true, he had been one of the most active members: it was a compound of the talents and knowledge of a number of individuals; and in this respect, though in no other, it bore a strong resemblance to the speech of the hon. gentleman which, from the style of its eloquence and the nature of its arguments, betrayed its origin to be in a sort of committee, formed of the leading members on the ministerial bench. With all due deference, however, to the quarter by which it was dictated, he must say, that it contained but little sound reasoning; and, however capital and flowery the language, the substance might be compressed into a very few sentences.811810809808l.807806805804Mr. Tierney
 (who had not been in his place during the debate) rose, under evident marks of illness, and shortly addressed the House, to express his zealous and cordial approbation of the motion, and his regret that he had been prevented from stating his opinion more in detail, by an indisposition, in consequence of which he had applied to have the question put off for a day; an arrangement which had been prevented by an accident. He stated, that he was the more anxious to mention the grounds on which he supported the motion because he went a considerable way farther than some of his hon. friends (sir S. Romilly and Mr. Tierney), in his views of reform; and because he stood pledged to state those views explicitly. He added, that he was anxious to see the question again brought forward in any shape which should give him the opportunity he desired;—and in the mean time he should only state, which he did most conscientiously, his unalterable adherence to his former sentiments upon this important question.Mr. Brougham
758757 had wished to have caught the eye of the Speaker sooner, but had
758757Mr. Curwen
704703702 presented the Petition of a numerous body of the citizens of Dublin, legally and consitiutionally convened, to petition that House for a restution of those rights and privileges of which they conceived themselves deprived by a series of flagitious transactions and political crimes, digraceful to the history of the
704703702General Mathew
 seconded the motion. The petition was then read and laid on the table.Mr. W. Talbot
735734**733732731730 in rising to second the motion of his hon. friend, felt that there were circumstances connected with the question at the present time which called on him for something more than a mere repetition of the sentiments which he had formerly delivered on the question. He allowed that the debate of that evening was more likely to serve as an indication of opinions already formed, than as a means of converting many from their former sentiments. It was the present situation of the country that could alone induce him to go farther than to express his general concurrence in all the principles laid down in the able, luminous, and temperate address of his hon. friend. This could alone afford him either a reason or a justification for repeating opinions which he had often before stated to the House, and endeavoured to press on their conviction. But when he considered the circumstances in which they were placed, the extreme distress and suffering that prevailed among the people, and the unprecedented energy with which they had petitioned for reform,
735734**733732731730Mr. Brand,
802801800***799**798**797796795794793792791When vengeance listens to the fool's request.""How nations sink, by darling schemes oppress't790 rose and said:—802801800***799**798**797796795794793792791When vengeance listens to the fool's request.""How nations sink, by darling schemes oppress't790Mr. Lamb
752the free Publication of the Debates in Parliament.751patronageinfluence.power750corrupt749at leastwas not excluded from the association.after an express avowal, of a correspondence actually carried on under his hand and signature748747746745744743excessive742741740739738737works well,736, after a few introductory observations, proceeded in substance as follows:— The motion made to the House is generally for a Committee on the State of the Representation, the hon. mover and seconder having carefully abstained from stating any particular plan of parliamentary reform intended to be proposed. It may however be collected from their speeches as well as from the petitions on the table, that a material alteration in the present representation is the object in view; and he (sir J. N.) having a decided objection to any change until a sufficient case should be made out, was prepared to meet the motion with a direct negative.752the free Publication of the Debates in Parliament.751patronageinfluence.power750corrupt749at leastwas not excluded from the association.after an express avowal, of a correspondence actually carried on under his hand and signature748747746745744743excessive742741740739738737works well,736Sir John Nicholl
 admitted that the meeting at which this petition had been agreed to, was conducted in a very orderly manner—but, as to the persons attending it, he could not say much for their respectability. He had, sometime since presented a petition on the same subject; and though he declared that he could not support the prayer of that petition, he was bound to say, that many of those who attended the meeting were persons of respectability. With respect to the present meeting, he could only say, that it was conducted in an orderly manner.Sir N. Colthurst
789788787786785784memory said, that though he presented himself to the House immediately after his hon. friend, he had no intention of following him through all the topics of his able and elaborate speech, which seemed to have anticipated a course of debate that had not taken place, and to have been prepared to answer arguments which he must have been disappointed at not hearing used. There were some of those topics, however, to which, if he possessed one faculty in as eminent a degree as it appeared his hon. friend did,—that of 789788787786785784memorySir Samuel Romilly
 rose amid cries of question, and said, that he had heard nothing which had shaken his opinion on this subject.— There was no sufficient case made out against the present state of the representation in parliament; and till he was convinced, he should not vote for any alteration.Lord Milton
813 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to continue for one year the Insurrec-
813Mr. Peel
819 felt considerable objections to the general principle of the executive government advancing the public money on private security. If not an unconstitutional, it was a dangerous practice. He was at the same time satisfied that the measure under consideration would be perfectly useless. There was sufficient capital already in the country for carrying on every profitable and useful public undertaking. The only permanent benefit that would, in his opinion, be conferred upon the labouring poor must arise from an attentive examination of the effects of the poor laws upon their condition, and the adoption of some gradual system
819Mr. Long Wellesley
 expressed his astonishment at the insinuation of the learned gentleman, that this measure was proposed for the sake of obtaining any undue influence, and referred to the names of the commissioners appointed as a complete answer to the supposition. No expectations were entertained of any extensive benefit to be derived from the measure; but it might do good, and could not be prejudicial.Mr. Rose
 said, that such a question in this stage of the discussion was entirely out of order; but he only rose to observe, that the case of the magistrate was necessarily connected with that of the informer.Mr. Bathurst
 gave notice of his intention to move, on the 10th of June, for leave to bring in a bill for the Repeal of the Septennial Act.Mr. Brougham
prima faciependente lite,817816 observed, that having been, through indisposition, absent from
prima faciependente lite,817816Mr. Addington
 approved of the intention of ministers, and thought the plan might do good, because it would furnish the means of employment.Mr. Thompson
 could not give ministers credit for their intentions, as in truth they would never have adopted this measure had they not been driven to it. If they had been sincere, why had they not sooner convened parliament? If it was true that parliament was soon to be dissolved, he was afraid this measure might be considered as a means of securing patronage to ministers. He wished ministers, or some of their friends, would disavow they had any intention of making this a source of patronage.Sir W. Burroughs
 intimated, that his vote must depend upon the answer he received to the question, whether any such letter had ever been sent as that described by Mr. Poole?Sir W. Burroughs
 considered the principle of the measure to be false, unsound, and hollow, and was persuaded that its adoption would not produce any permanently good effects.Mr. Lyttelton
lll was inclined to give credit to ministers, and to believe they had, acted with the purest intentions in bringing forward this measure. He thought that just now ministers might easily get those public works forwarded, which they would hereafter require to be finished—as for example, the Plymouth Breakwater. He was sorry the estimate for it had been reduced from 60,000lllMr. W. Smith
818 would have willingly withdrawn his motion, if what he had represented as facts had appeared to be no more than supposition. He had, however, reason to believe that too much authenticity belonged to the letter of Poole; by
818Sir J. Mackintosh
815814 rose to move for the production of copies of all communications between the Home Department, and a person of the name of Poole, regarding the conduct of the latter in his informations against three individuals, named Parkinson, Fletcher, and Deacon, before a magistrate of Staffordshire. This individual had been very active in his informations. He had no personal knowledge of him, and had no motive but that of public duty, in bringing forward the facts which he felt himself called upon to state. He had received his information from persons on whose veracity he could rely; who, like himself, had no personal interests to serve, and who, although it was possible for them to be deceived themselves, would never attempt to deceive others. It appeared from their statement, that this Poole had been very active about
815814Sir James Mackintosh
 could see no ground for refusing the correspondence. The prosecution pending in the court of King's-bench was against Mr. Powis, the magistrate, alone. It was true, that the right hon. gentleman had, with extraordinary candour, apprized the House of the intercourse now subsisting between that gentleman and the executive government; but all that appeared upon the present statement of facts, was, that an individual, who had by some means rendered himself unpleasant to government, had been illegally convicted under the hawkers and pedlars act; the magistrate who recorded that conviction stating, that he cared not for the law, as he was satisfied that he should be indemnified by government. In this state of the case he could not advise his hon. and learned friend to withdraw his motion.Sir S. Romilly
 expressed his doubts as to the probable efficacy of this measure in affording any substantial relief, particularly in populous places, like Manchester and Sheffield, where the distress was greatest, and the habits of the unemployed least adapted to the labour incident to the execution of public works. That part of the bill which contemplated the repayment of the money borrowed on the security of parish funds within the term of three years, he regarded as perfectly nugatory.Lord Milton
bona fide820
bona fide820Mr. J. Smith
ll, rose to bring under the consideration of the House, the extreme hardship which was felt in many parts of Ireland from the oppressive duty upon Windows and Carriages. The hon. member went into a variety of statements, to prove the severity of those taxes, especially that upon windows, and mentioned one case, where a person paying only 28llMr. Shaw, of Dublin
 supported the views of sir S. Romilly, adding, that the commissioners of bankruptcy should be authorized to adjourn the final examination of any bankruptcy until he should be prepared to make a satisfactory disclosure of his effects, as such a provision, he was induced to think would operate materially to check fraudulent bankrupts.Mr. Abercrombie
, adverting to a commission of inquiry which had lately taken place at Cork, in consequence of frauds committed upon the Convicts, stated the circumstances of the case as they had been communicated to him. Representation having been made to admiral Hallowell, who commanded at Cork, that about one half of the sum allowed by government for the maintenance of each convict while at Cork, had been for years appropriated to the private profit of the sheriffs and gaolers, that gallant officer transmitted his information to the government, by whom a commission of inquiry was appointed. Now, he wished to know whether there was any objection to lay before the House the report of the commission, with regard to the double fraud upon tin-government and the unfortunate convicts?Mr. Bennet
 having stated that he had no objection, Mr. Bennet moved for the "Report of the Commissioners appointed by the Crown to investigate certain alleged abuses in the Convict Department in Cork, together with the evidence taken before them."—Ordered.Mr. Peel
825, in explaining the views which induced him to lay those taxes upon Ireland, admitted, that he believed there was no body of men more
825Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 said, he thought it would be much better to understand at once whether it was likely any relief would be granted, rather than send the petitions to a committee, merely as a way of getting rid of them. No new light could be thrown upon the subject of them by any investigation before the finance committee. With respect to the window tax, it was certainly a war tax originally; but he did not therefore mean to say it should be struck off, though it certainly constituted some ground for complaint, and come claim for a mitigation of its assessments on the part of the petitioners. It was felt most severely in Dublin, where hundreds of persons were compelled to stop up their lights, thus excluding the fresh air, and causing the most deplorable consequences from contagious disorders. If no relief could be granted, in God's name let it be so declared, and they must submit to it, which would be infinitely better than deluding them with hopes that were never meant to be realized.Mr. Plunkett
 reminded the House, that the assessed taxes of Ireland stood pledged for the payment of the interest upon its permanent debt. They had to consider, therefore, whether she could supply the means of defraying that charge, by the operation of a reasonable system of taxation. He was as desirous as any one to afford relief, if it could be done without diminishing the income of the country. The mode of effecting that would demand some inquiry, and he much doubted whether any inquiry could be made that would enable them to legislate upon the subject this session. That was the reason why he proposed to refer the petitions to the finance committee.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l826 said, that he understood the Chancellor of the Exchequer to state that this tax stood pledged as a part of the permanent revenue of Ireland. That was impossible, as the act of parliament gave it an express duration of three years, or during the war. England, on the arrival of peace, had received as a boon a diminution of 17 millions of taxes, while to Ireland, whose means of meeting taxation were so reduced by the abrupt-
l826Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
 said, that though he differed in some respects from the views entertained by the hon. mover, yet he was most ready to do justice to the candid manner in which he had argued it. While, however, that House would feel disposed to attend to any particular inconveniences felt from the operation of a tax, they were equally bound to attend to the general burthen which must be borne by the whole empire. He thought the object of the hon. member would be best attained by referring the petitions to the committee of finance, rather than to any separate committee. The whole taxation of the country must come under the consideration of that committee; and he would, therefore, move as an amendment, that the said petitions be referred to the committee of finance.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
, to gratify all parties, would press on his right hon. friend, to accede to the motion.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 observed, that he was not so wedded to his own opinion as to the manner of disposing of the present subject, as to decline taking the course most likely to gratify those gentlemen so intimately connected with Ireland. But he wished to say, that a plan had lately been before him for remodelling the whole system of the collection of the assessed taxes in Ireland, on which he had suspended his decision until he should avail himself of a local investigation on the spot.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
829l.;l was decidedly of opinion, that it would be beneficial to the general interests of the country, and, in no ways injurious to the manufacturer, if those duties were repealed. He was always friendly to the measure, and so little did he contemplate the objections which had been urged against it, that he had laid a memorial before the linen board of Ireland, thinking the proposition of a repeal of the transit duties would be immediately acceded to; but he found their feelings on that subject were very different from his; they treated the measure as one calculated to do the greatest possible injury, and as rather intended to serve the interests of private individuals, than those of the country in general. The whole of their argument was founded on the supposition, that those duties prevented the foreign linens from coming into our markets. This was the fact, in 1810, when we had all the trade of the world; but now, when the ocean was covered with the Hags of all nations, what was there to prevent foreign vessels proceeding directly to those markets, which we formerly supplied? It was said, the foreign merchant could not do this, because it was out of his power to command an assorted cargo. But every practical merchant in that House knew that that this was an erroneous supposition. The foreign merchant could half fill his vessel at Hamburgh with linens; he might then proceed to an English port, take in whatever other articles he pleased, and sail at once for South America. In the last year, the duties on foreign linens exported amounted to 4,000829l.;lMr. Robinson
lllll830ll desired, in this stage of the debate, to intimate his intention of moving for another production from the board of linen trade of Ireland. He laid claim, on the part of that country, to all that favour which could belong to, or be deserved by local interests. If ever local interests were binding upon a legislature, the engagements under which the English parliament had come to the Irish were obligatory and imperative. Manufactures might safely be left to the calculation of their own profits; but it was an object of national policy to decide between their contending claims. That this was a fair subject for political consideration was manifest, from the total and separate amount of the different exports from Ireland during the last year. The total amount of these exports was 6,400,000lllll830llMr. Peel
 supported the motion, on considerations derived from an intimate knowledge of the transit trade in this article, and on the general ground that much of what was called Irish linen was in fact of foreign manufacture. He had no doubt that it was for the interest both of Great Britain and Ireland that these distinctions should be done away.Mr. Marryat
 referred to the policy of foreign powers, and particularly of the Prussian government, in defence of the prevailing system.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
831 said, that of late years the great increase in the revenue, and the great concerns in which the government had been engaged, had led to proceedings with respect to Extents in Aid, that it had never been in the contemplation of the legislature or of the courts of law to sanction. The power of extending the operation of extents in aid t6 those indebted to debtors of the Crown, had enabled individuals to put forward their claims in a way peculiarly advantageous to themselves, and this power had certainly of late years been much abused. To remedy this he would now propose to bring in a bill, the principle of which would go to
831The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the public were much obliged to the right hon. gentleman for bringing the subject under the consideration of parliament; he was, how-ever, rather inclined to think that this matter might have been more satisfactorily adjusted, by reverting to the ancient law. Until the last twenty years there was no instance of any extent, except in cases of bond debts to the Crown. The only other alteration necessary, might, in his opinion, have been produced by additional regulations on the part of the barons of the exchequer, in order to enforce a more strict definition of the nature of the application, before any extent were allowed to be issued. This he thought might be effected without any interference on the part of the legislature.Mr. Abercrombie
832ll was persuaded, that if his learned friend were to consider the subject a little more, he would be of opinion that it would not be practicable for the court of exchequer, by any rule of court, to remedy the existing grievances. One of the great evils which the bill was intended to remedy was, that a debt to the Crown, through the medium of an extent in aid, frequently, and sometimes necessarily, procured to the debtor to the Crown, at the expense of the other creditors of his debtor a considerable benefit, of which the Crown did not partake. For instance, if a debtor owed the Crown 500832llThe Attorney-General
 was aware that the circumstances of the country had rendered great vigilance in the recovery of debts due to the Crown necessary; but still the abuses which existed with respect to I extents in aid ought to be done away. The proposed bill, he hoped, would tend to accomplish that object. As to the question of costs, that was certainly one which deserved to be promptly examined. He could not sit down without expressing that tribute which he thought due to the conduct of the attorney-general, who, as the House well knew, had abandoned an extensive and profitable practice in his profession, in order that he might give the public service the full benefit of his attention. Such instances of zeal in; the public service were rare.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 contended it was the only practicable course, as by sending it to the finance committee either its other comparatively more important duties must be suspended, or no regard would be paid to the present subject.Mr. Brougham
ex parte823 rose to move the revival of the
ex parte823Mr. Brougham
824 expressed his entire concurrence in the motion, and his conviction of the necessity that some consideration should be bestowed upon the subject. The persons who had petitioned against the tax, especially from Dublin, were all of them respectable householders, and a most rational, intelligent, and modest set of men. His idea was, that some regulation might be adopted, which would relieve the subject, without diminishing the resources of the country. In any opinion he entertained or might have expressed upon the subject of those taxes, he did not mean to cast the slightest imputation upon the motives or the integrity of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. V. Fitzgerald), at whose recommendation they were imposed. He had proved himself an honest servant of the Crown, mediating between it and the people, and doing justice to the one,
824Mr. Grattan
, after briefly adverting to the state of the flax trade, declared it to be his sincere opinion, that a greater injustice had never been practised by one country towards another, than by England towards Ireland, by the extinction of her woollen trade.Mr. Curwen
ll observed, that the outline of the measure, as described by the chancellor of the exchequer, was by no means sufficient to remove the evil complained of. The practice of suing out extents in aid, was grounded on a fiction; but according to the proposed measure, that which was a fiction would be made a reality. He thought it a question which deserved serious consideration, whether the kind of extents proposed to be maintained, should be allowed to exist. He hoped that the accumulation of excessive costs would be prevented. He knew an instance of an extent having been issued for 80llMr. Lockhart
822l said, that the object of the bill which he had introduced, was solely to distinguish between honest and fraudulent bankrupts, and to guard against fictitious claimants. As to the latter, he was sorry to understand, and he stated it without prejudice, that in London, at least, they consisted principally of the Hebrew nation, who, as he was assured, dealt largely in false oaths. For example a case had lately come to his knowledge, in which a Jew had sworn himself the creditor of a bankrupt to the amount of 5,000822lMr. Lockhart
827, in rising to draw the attention of the House to the state of the Linen trade, lamented that his intentions had given rise to any agitation in Ireland. He trusted, however, he should be able to show on what slight grounds those apprehensions were founded. Foreign linens, he observed, on being taken out of warehouses for home consumption, were subjected to a duty of 7½, and if intended for exportation, were loaded with an additional duty of 15 per cent., making altogether 22½. This duty had been wisely imposed by parliament, when this country enjoyed the monopoly of the trade of the world; and if affairs had so continued to the present time, he
827Mr. Finlay
l hoped, that extents in aid would be confined to debtors in chief. If every surety was allowed to receive extents, that would be a great evil. Something ought to be done to prevent the enormous amount of costs. He knew a county in which the sheriffs had in one year received 10,000lMr. Thompson
l821bona fide was glad that this subject had been brought before the House from such a respectable quarter, and trusted it would experience the degree of attention which it loudly called for. The system of the bankrupt law was radically defective; and he was persuaded that nothing would serve to correct the abuses complained of but a very material alteration in that law. It was notorious that the grossest frauds were practised under the law, as it at present stood—that fictitious debts very often superseded l821bona fideSir S. Romilly
 hoped that the subject would be brought forward early in the next session, that thus the people of Ireland, interested in the linen trade, might see the House were disposed to do them justice, and to defend their interests.Sir J. Newport
 suggested the propriety in consequence of the information the House had just received, of withdrawing the motion. The presence of the chancellor of the exchequer, he sincerely trusted, would have the beneficial effect of establishing that long wanted desideratum in Ireland, an efficient check on the collectors of the public money.Sir J. Newport
 said, if the House wished to have a fair examination of the matter, they would not consent to send the petitions to the finance committee One reason why he should object to doing so, was, because there was not, at most, more than one of two Irish members upon it, and though he had no doubt the members of that committee would do their duty, in what related to Ireland, as well as to England, yet, in a question affecting Ireland alone, he could not help thinking that Irishmen were most likely to be influenced by the necessary zeal and anxiety. There was another consideration. The business already before the committee was quite enough to occupy all its attention With respect to the taxes complained of, in condemning their operation, he disclaimed any intention of reproaching the right hon. gentleman who proposed them. He was called upon, by his situation, to make great exertions during the war; he did do so, and Ireland corresponded to them, by drawing upon her capital to meet his demands. But the war being over, she had a right to expect from the justice of England a remission of those claims.Sir J. Newport
828 did not mean to oppose the motion, as it tended only to produce inquiry. The question lay within a very narrow compass. It was known that there was a great prejudice in the minds of the South Americans against Irish linens; not, he believed, because they were inferior to the foreign linens, but because a fair comparison was not made between them. In consequence of this the Irish linen merchants imitated certain marks that were affixed to the German linens, and sent them into the market thus disguised. He was averse to the removal of those duties. If the burthen on the import of foreign linens were taken off, not a yard of Irish linen would be bought; nothing but that of foreign manufacture would be purchased. It might be said, that the prejudice of the South Americans would soon be removed, when the Irish article came in fair competition with the foreign. But what, in the mean time, was to become
828Mr. Knox
 said, he had held a consultation with many country gentlemen on this part of the bill, who all agreed in the necessity of retaining the regulation.Mr. Rose
 trusted, as there was so much opposition to the bill, that the right hon. gentleman would withdraw it; and that, if a bill were necessary, one less objectionable might be brought forward next session. In the country there was much dislike of the bill in its present shape.General Thornton
 was against the clause, as affording a bonus for saving at the expense of the poor-rates.Mr. Courtenay
 maintained, that if the clause were rejected, it would prevent many from placing their savings in these banks, and that the general effect of the bill was to produce a habit of saving among the poor.Mr. Rose
835 said, the clause was calculated to save a poor man involved in affliction and distress, from being altogether broken down and dispirited by misfortune. The public were very jealous of them, at that moment; they ought, therefore, to prove, by passing this clause, that a gene-
835Colonel Wood
838 said, that he had not gone into the details of the measure when he brought in the present bill, because it had been so recently discussed that he thought he should not have been justified in again trespassing on the time of the House. But had he been aware that such a description of it would have been given by the hon. and learned gentleman, he should certainly have been anxious to guard against misrepresentation, by entering into it himself. The hon. and learned gentlemau had stated its most rigorous provisions, but had concealed those which went to mitigate the more severe parts of the law. He had not stated, that the transportations which could take place under it to the colonies were limited to seven years. Though this might take place without a trial by jury, on a conviction before the magistrates, yet by the act the lord lieutenant was required to provide a king's serjeant or council to attend on such occasions, and if this person differed from the magistrates, the case of the accused was then brought under the consideration of the executive government, who decided on its merits; and thus it would be seen, that every precaution was taken to guard against abuse. The measure was only to be enforced in particular cases, at the discretion of the government, on an application made to them by the magistrates. He had moved for papers, to show under what circumstances it had been resorted to in the case of the county of Louth. It had only been applied to that county when the state of it was such, that trial by jury had lost its proper character, and instead of a I blessing, had become a curse. It was necessary to dispense with it, when those who came forward as witnesses or as prosecutors, could no longer be protected. What would the family of Lynch say, who had suffered so severely on this subject, when told that trial by jury was sufficient to meet every evil? In the instance referred to, the man who had fallen a martyr to the cause had been robbed of arms.
838Mr. Peel
 was satisfied that he might appeal to all who were acquainted with the state of Ireland for a decision respecting the necessity of the measure. The mode and purposes of applying it constituted the material question; and the fact was, that it never had been put in force, except upon the unanimous representation of the magistrates. He hoped that credit was given to him for a sincere adherence to the principle of making farther concessions to the Catholics, but he could not allow that question to be identified with the outrages and enormities that had been recently committed; neither could he consent to a general inquiry at a moment when the preservation of the peace in Ireland was immediately at stake. Was there any other man in the House, except the hon. and learned gentleman, who would say that the object of this measure was, to govern Ireland by tenor, and a large military force? If the hon. and learned gentleman lived in the county of Louth, he would feel it his duty to support this bill, instead of urging objections against it.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
840 declared, that no person could lament more than he did the necessity for the adoption of this measure. "Wherever the law met with the co-operation of the people, or was not opposed by the people, he would trust the protection of the peace of the country to its ordinary operation; but if in any part of the country the people evinced a determination to put down the law of the land, and to have no law but their own will, in such an instance to talk of the ordinary constitution as sufficient to preserve the public tranquillity was to utter an absolute fallacy. The fact was, that in the counties of Limerick, Tipperary, and Louth, until the insurrection act was put in force, there was no hope of any of the prosecutors or witnesses, in cases of trial for the outrages committed in those counties, escaping being murdered. Under those circumstances, it was impossible to think of resorting merely to the trial by jury. The hon. and learned gentleman wished to postpone the adoption of the measure for the sake of obtaining information. The fact was, that there was
840Mr. Leslie Foster
 said, that he was ready to take his share of the odium that might attach to the re-enactment of this salutary law, which had, however, never been found necessary in the county which he represented.Mr. Dominick Browne
 notwithstanding the generally objectionable points of the bill considered it justified by the present state of the country.Mr. Macnaghten
 spoke in favour of the bill, as calculated to restore that independent feeling among the poorer classes, which was now so much broken down.Mr. Protheroe
 supported the motion. If persons having property in saving banks, received relief from the poor-rates, it would tend to remove all sense of disgrace from dependence on the poor-rates.Mr. Philips
 particularly objected to this portion of the bill, as it was so complete a deviation from the principle of the poor-laws. The alteration went to remove what little objection remained in the breasts of the poorer classes of society to receive parochial relief.Mr. Hammersley
 could not sufficiently admire the tactics of the right hon. gentleman, who attempted, in this disguised manner, to carry what he had failed in last year. This professed to be an encouragement to saving; but this saving was out of the poor-rates. It was preposterous to talk of saving otherwise than by one's own earnings. The clause therefore was most preposterous.Mr. Calcraft
 thought the clause could be of no service, and must do much mischief.Mr. Curwen
841 acknowledged, that Ireland had suffered much from the absence of her great landholders and wealthy gentlemen; but what had occasioned their absence? It was brought about by the act of union: and how that act had been effected was so well known, that it was unnecessary for him to repeat it. He positively denied that the insurrection act had led to the discovery and arrest of the murderers of Mr. Baker. With respect to religious disputes, he believed that they had nothing to do with the disturbances in the county of Louth. But why were all the other counties to be subjected to the operation of this law? The county of Louth was the smallest county in Ireland: it was the Rutlandshire of England. Nothing could be done to secure the tranquillity of that country without a fair and equal distribution of justice. At present he
841General Mathew
 assured the House, that for the last three or four years there had been a system of intimidation in some parts of Ireland, which prevented the due execution of justice. He was perfectly convinced that government had made every exertion to put down the disturbances by the ordinary law of the land, before they applied for any extraordinary powers. The outrages in that part of the country in which he resided had been of the most alarming kind, but they were not at all occasioned by religious animosities, as the Roman Catholics had been equally the sufferers and the aggressors. This law was intended to protect both Catholics and Protestants, and he could not help entering his protest against the declarations of hon. members, who, whenever disturbances in Ireland were mentioned, ascribed them to the evil of not granting what was called emancipation. Every day's experience taught him, that the calamities of that country arose, principally, from the absence of those gentlemen who ought to reside on their estates, and who, while they diffused happiness around them, should set a good example to the interior orders of the community. This was the source of all the evils of that unhappy country; and unless the gentlemen of Ireland would return to their native land, and live among their tenants, neither the commutation of tithes nor any other measure would be of any avail. This, and this only, could afford security to the peace and welfare of Ireland.Lord Jocelyn
l.834 observed, that the objection to the clause was an objection upon principle, and so far he entirely concurred in it. That principle was, that under the clause in question, persons would be admitted to parochial relief, without being wholly destitute of any kind of property. If the clause passed into a law,
l.834Mr. Frankland Lewis
842 said, he had heard nothing to convince him that this measure was necessary. A force had been voted for Ireland, of 25,000 troops to preserve the peace in that country. The right hon. secretary for Ireland had said that this bill was not called for by any thing like treason or rebellion. But the very grounds on which it had been originally introduced was, to meet treason and rebellion. There was, therefore, nothing to justify the House in passing such an act now in a time of profound peace, when neither insurrection nor treason were alleged to exist. If any such measure was necessary, it ought to be more moderate. This bill might be withdrawn, and after being so modified as to make it more consonant to the constitution, but yet efficient enough for the evils which called for it, it might be again introduced during the present session. He entreated the right hon. gentleman to do this, that the House might gradually retrace its steps, from the extraor-
842Sir W. Burroughs
 supported the clause, as tending to propagate a spirit of independence, to promote a love of domestic comfort and enjoyment, and to prevent many evils that caused much misery and vice.Mr. Wilberforce
 felt it to be his duty to vote for the measure, on the ground of its absolute necessity. To allow the bill to expire would be, in fact, to cast an indirect censure, on the government and magistracy of Ireland, by whom its continuance had been declared to be indispensable.Mr. W. Quin
 opposed the clause, as he could not see any necessity for the over-zeal evinced in this portion of the bill; it was indeed undertaking to manage that which, if left alone, would manage itself. The operation of the bill would work a great injustice in Scotland.Sir C. Monck
 as a representative of Ireland, could not refrain from declaring, that the bill appeared to him to be one of the many measures of benefit to Ireland originated and matured by the right hon. chief secretary for that country, to whom Ireland was most materially indebted for his exertions. The present was a protecting bill. It would protect from outrage the Catholic as well as the Protestant. He had received letters from Ireland announcing that they were perfectly satisfied in that country with the recent decision in parliament; that they relied on their wisdom for ultimate success, and that they were very grateful to the respectable English, Scotch, and Welch minority, who supported their cause. He was happy to say that the present bill was not founded on any immediate necessity whatever [a laugh]. He should support the bill.Sir F. Flood
839 denied that the measure would be any remedy for the evils under which Ireland laboured. He was unwil-
839Sir H. Parnell
837836 objected to the farther progress of this measure, under the present ciscumstances of the country. He could not think that the House did its duty to the people of Ireland, in passing a measure of such extraordinary rigour and severity without some inquiry into the actual condition of that country. He did not think it enough to say, that the law should be such that the executive or magistracy, in their discretion, might determine on its application, whilst it contradicted every principle of our free constitution. By this bill it would be in the power of the magistrates to declare any particular district to be disturbed, and arrest any individual who should be found out of his dwelling-house one hour before sun-rise, or one hour after sun-set. Every person so acting was pronounced by this bill to be a disorderly person, and subjected to the punishment of transportation without a trial by jury, and by the judgment merely of the magistrates in sessions. It moreover empowered the magistrate personally to enter any House in the middle of the night, and to discover by that means whether an individual ought to be considered as a disorderly or suspicious character, by being present or absent from his habitation. He did not assert that the unhappy state of that country did not require these harsh measures of legislation—measures which were unknown in this part of the kingdom, except as history communicated to us what was imposed under the iron yoke of William the conqueror, but he was convinced that the House would not discharge its duty faithfully in voting such measures without perfect information of the circumstances to which they were intended to apply. The moderation which had been shown in the enforcement of this bill, had been copiously described by the right hon. gentleman. He believed, however, that no fewer than 60 or 70 persons had been transported to the colonies under the last act. But he would ask, were they to be satisfied with the declaration of government itself, that it had not made a tyran-
837836Sir S. Romilly
 said, it was with great reluctance that he felt himself bound to give his assent to the present measure. It was a painful necessity to which he must submit, but he ascribed it entirely to that lamentable system of policy of which, in his opinion, it was the necessary result, and which was, he feared, calculated to produce still worse effects. Whilst, however, he thought the procrastination of a full inquiry into the state of Ireland was a mighty evil, he must conscientiously declare, that the former act had been administered with singular moderation.Sir J. Newport
 observed, that agricultural labourers were already contributors to the saving banks without those clauses, which he did not think at all necessary or proper.Lord Milton
 said, that from the communication just read, the House, as well as himself, must feel the great loss which they had sustained by the resignation of their Speaker. On this subject he was sure there could be no difference of opinion, and he felt it to be quite unnecessary to dwell on the merits of the speaker, which were so long and so well known [Hear, hear!]. He would merely propose that the House adjourn till Monday next, when it was probable he should have a communication from the Prince Regent, marking the estimation in which the Speaker was held by that illustrious person; and when the House could proceed to the election of a new Speaker.—Adjourned till Monday.Lord Castlereagh
 rose, and said he was commanded by his royal highness the Prince Regent to acquaint the House, that their late Speaker having communicated to his Royal Highness that he was compelled, from indisposition, to quit the chair; and his Royal Highness being anxious that no further delay should arise to the progress of public business, had signified his wish that they should immediately proceed to the election of a new Speaker. Then,Lord Castlereagh
853852 rose and said:853852Mr. C. W. W. Wynn
 said, that there could exist but one opinion respecting the merits and talents of the worthy and amiable individual, who with so much credit to himself, and honour to the House, had filled for fifteen years the arduous and difficult office of Speaker. For the right hon. gentleman who was nominated to the chair e had the warmest esteem and regard. Yet he was bound to say, that the vote he should this evening give, would be in favour of his hon. friend (Mr. Wynn), because, from early habits of friendship, and the most intimate knowledge, he was persuaded there was not an individual better qualified to preside in that House. In private life he was distinguished by the greatest beneficence and attention to the wants of individuals. His manners were equally amiable, and surely that House required not to be told of the diligence and attention he had uniformly exhibited in every department of public duty. He had attentively considered the merits of his hon. friend, and he was convinced there was no man better qualified to fill the chair, and that no man could or would discharge its duties more impartially. On these grounds he should certainly give his vote in favour of his hon. friend.Sir Charles Burrell
 was persuaded that no man could be better qualified than his hon. friend (Mr. Wynn), to fill the chair, and it was impossible for him to forget the zeal which that worthy individual had shown since he had been a member of the House. He was actuated by no personal feelings, but he should certainly feel it is indispensable duty to give his vote in favour of the appointment of his hon. friend.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 said, that after the very proper choice which the House had just made, it would ill become him to detain them much longer. He congratulated the House and the right hon. gentleman, and trusted that he would long be spared to discharge the duties of that office, to which he had been so honourably raised; and he expressed the firmest confidence, that he should receive the warmest support of the House. Entertaining these views, he felt it unnecessary to add more than merely to express his heartfelt wishes for the success of the right hon. gentleman, and should conclude by moving that the House do now adjourn.—Agreed to.Lord Castlereagh
848847 rose and said:848847Mr. E. J. Littleton
849 said, he was desirous of occupying but a very short space of the attention of the House, while he recommended another hon. gentleman to the office of Speaker. He would propose for their choice, Mr. Charles Watkin Williams Wynn, a gentleman whose talents and qualifications peculiarly fitted him for the chair, and whose merits no one could deny. He would follow the example so properly set him by the honourable gentleman op-site, and would not enter into the comparative merits of the two hon. members. He proposed Mr. Wynn, not for any demerit in Mr. Manners Sutton, but from the peculiar merits of his hon. friend. In what had been said in praise of the former he cordially joined; but if that eulogium was deserved by him, in what respect was his honourable friend inferior or less deserving? Nay, he would even go farther, and say, that in some respects his claim was superior, as being founded in the experience of talents as displayed in the debates of the House, and his acknowledged acquaintance with its forms and history. In the knowledge of the orders of parliament, and in questions of division, that were particularly important from the state of partics, his hon. friend had displayed peculiar aptitude for the Chair. It was not many days ago that he had set the House right on a question of this kind, when even the late Speaker, eminently qualified as he was for all parts of his duty, had acted on his suggestion, and bowed to his superior knowledge. It was this intimate acquaintance with the forms and precedents of parliament, and tin's promptitude in applying them to regulate its proceedings, that constituted the best qualification for the Chair; and for those qualities his hon. friend was eminently distinguished. This praise did not depend upon report—it did not spring from the partiality of friends—the House had been a witness of the fact. His hon. friend might say, like a great ancient to another assembly, and in another competition:—"Nec memoranda vobis mea facta, Pelasgi, esse reor; vidistis enim." We lived in times of great diffi-
849Mr. Dickinson
855150For the Noes, sir M. W. Ridley
150For the Noes, sir M. W. Ridley312For the Ayes, Mr. Littleton
312For the Ayes, Mr. Littleton
150For the Noes, sir M. W. Ridley
150For the Noes, sir M. W. Ridley312For the Ayes, Mr. Littleton
312For the Ayes, Mr. Littleton854 said, that the office of Speaker required qualifications of the highest order, and that the various occasions on which questions of property came before him, and were in a great measure dependent on his judgment and integrity, made it essential that his character should be of that eminent class, that the individuals interested, and the country at large, should rest satisfied with his decisions. He felt the question now before the House to be one of some difficulty. It was impossible for any man not to acknowledge the high ability and private worth of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Manners Sut-
855150For the Noes, sir M. W. Ridley
150For the Noes, sir M. W. Ridley312For the Ayes, Mr. Littleton
312For the Ayes, Mr. Littleton
150For the Noes, sir M. W. Ridley
150For the Noes, sir M. W. Ridley312For the Ayes, Mr. Littleton
312For the Ayes, Mr. Littleton854Mr. Wilberforce
851 rose and said:851Mr. Manners Sutton
846845844 (addressing himself to the deputy clerk, who standing up, pointed to him, and then sat down) spoke as follows:846845844Sir John Nicholl
850 seconded the motion. He would riot enter into any consideration of the merits of Mr. Manners Sutton, but would press the peculiar fitness of his hon. and learned friend, Mr. Wynn, to fill the
850Sir M. W. Ridley
 rose to mention a circumstance which had occurred, of a Sunday paper having printed the whole of the report of a committee of that House, which had sat to inquire into the police of the metropolis. He did not mention it, with any desire to make a complaint against the editor of the paper in question, but merely to bring under the consideration of the House the negligence of those whose duty it was, to keep such documents from public circulation till regularly delivered to the members [Hear, hear!]. At the present moment, he believed, not one copy of that report had been issued for the use of the members. He knew that, for himself, he had only an imperfect one.Mr. Bennet
 here rose to suggest to the hon. member, the expediency of abstaining from entering upon the discussion at that moment.Lord Castlereagh
884 [Sir Samuel Shepherd] began by distinctly disavowing any intention on the part of those concerned in the prosecution, to embarrass the prisoners by an unnecessary increase of the witnesses to be called. It was true there were a great number, and the number was great because the law had made it imperative to state the name and de-
884The Attorney-General
 expressed his astonishment at the mode of proceeding adopted by the advisers of the Crown on this occasion. No body would concur more willingly in a vote of thanks to lord Colchester than himself, because it appeared to him to be a just and necessary proceeding: but why did the Crown interfere to prevent the House from going farther, and from originating any other reward which was due to his acknowledged merits? His services had been performed in that House, and from that House, therefore, ought their recompense to proceed. The only similar case was that of Mr. Speaker Onslow, and in that case the proceeding was initiated by an address from the House to the throne. This was not a mere question upon a point of form; it was not a matter of indifference that persons sitting in that chair should be accustomed to look to the Crown for the reward of their exertions in it. Strictly speaking, the Crown could know nothing of what passed in that House, nor be able to appreciate the merits of the Speaker in the discharge of the duties of the chair. Had the message been preceded by an address, every objection would have been precluded; but the services in question were of that nature which, for peculiar reasons, ought, in the first instance, to be fully recognized and appreciated by the House [Hear, hear!].Mr. Wynn
 hoped the House would do ministers the justice to believe that it never could be their wish or intention to stand between the liberality of the House and the individual in question; but that right hon. person having been raised to the dignity of the peerage, the purport of the message ought to be understood as inviting the House to make a provision in consideration of the title, and not of his services as Speaker. [Cries of No no!].Lord Castlereagh
 professed himself quite astonished at the explanation offered by the noble lord. How he could say on his legs in that House, that the proposed reward was not in consequence of the late Speaker's services, or how, being in what was vulgarly called a scrape, he could endeavour so to get out of it, was to him a most surprising incident. The very words of the message itself declared that it was founded upon those services. The Crown had not, in fact, any constitutional right to take notice of their Speaker's services, and it was a flagrant violation of their first privileges in ministers to have thus advised it. He knew not what course it might be now most expedient to pursue, but he hoped the House would not cease to maintain its constitutional and established rights. [Hear hear!].Mr. Ponsonby
 said, he had never imagined that the Crown could proceed in this case without the authority of the House; but if an address were presented, praying that a suitable reward should be conferred, a message might then be brought down stating the existing limitations on the power of granting pensions, and the House would, then have it in its power to supply the deficiency. But these were mere technical points; the main objection was, that the first knowledge they received of a remuneration to be given for services performed in the chair of that House, should have come from the Crown. He would repeat his anxious wish that the motion should be withdrawn, and another substituted, that would meet the wishes of every member in that House.Mr. Wynn
 admitted the candour of the hon. gentleman's intimation. The great object on all sides, he apprehended, must be, to do that which would be most gratifying to the feelings of the distinguished person immediately interested. If it was the pleasure of the House to adjourn the consideration for the present [Cries of No, no!], he apprehended then that it might be the most satisfactory course to withdraw the motion he had already made, and give notice of his intention to move an address to the Crown on this subject on Thursday next.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
887 thought it could not be supposed that any disrespect to the House was intended by taking the earliest opportunity of proposing an adequate reward of the services which the House had received from the noble lord in his late office of Speaker of that House. He could not conceive that the prerogative of the Crown had been improperly exercised in carrying such a purpose into effect. Whenever the rank of the peerage had been conferred in recompense of distinguished merit, the Crown had been in the custom of sending similar messages. It was done in the case of the duke of Wellington, and had always
887The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 declared, that under the circumstances of the case he felt it his duty to oppose the present motion. Trusting that the House would proceed to accomplish the same purpose by an address in the first instance, should the present motion be negatived or withdrawn, he thought such a course would be infinitely more honourable to the noble lord whose merits were the ground of such a proceeding. He could see no analogy between this case and that of naval or military services. Of these last the Crown was the natural and proper judge, but could not be of services rendered in that House. The Crown had already the power of granting a pension for life; and had this power been exercised on this occasion, he knew no legal objection that could have been urged against it: but all would admit that it must have been a very ill-advised proceeding. Such a mark of favour would have been a very inadequate compliment for the occasion. The House was the theatre of the services performed, and ought not to seem as if it wanted to be put in mind of the obligations it was under. Neither ought it to be held out to future Speakers that they were to look elsewhere for their reward. He had so decided an objection to the course proposed by ministers, that if the motion were pressed, he would meet it either by a direct negative, or by moving the previous question. He entreated, however, in honour and justice to the late Speaker, that the House would not be pressed to such an alternative, that the ministers would see the necessity of withdrawing the present motion, and substituting in its place an address similar to the one adopted in Speaker Onslow's case.Mr. Wynn
888 contended, that no want of respect to lord Colchester could be argued from the present proceedings. Without presuming to give an opinion on the precedents, he must say, that it was at all events a struggle between the Crown and the House, which should best appreciate the acknowledged services of that distinguished character. It was impossible to infer that the Crown had not the means of being informed of those services, when it was well ascertained that on the many occasions of re-election, when the late Speaker was presented for the approbation of the Crown, an explicit declara-
888Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 addressed the House as follows:—" I have to acquaint the House, that this House has been in the House of Peers and heard the commission read by his majesty's commissioners, and that his Royal Highness, acting on behalf of his majesty, had been graciously pleased to signify, through those commissioners, that he approved of the person whom they had elected as their Speaker. I trust I may be permitted, on this occasion, to avail myself of the opportunity once more to assure the House how deeply sensible I am of the honour its members have bestowed on me, by electing me to a situation so highly honourable to him upon whom it may devolve. For the incalculable favour they have thus bestowed upon me, and the confidence with which they have honoured me, I feel those sentiments of gratitude which it is not in my power to express. I am conscious, but too conscious, I shall have often to appeal to their indulgence; and for that indulgence I am assured, that so long as I shall endeavour to the best of my abilities faithfully to discharge my duty, I shall never have to appeal in vain. It shall be my study and solicitous endeavour to support the regulations and orders of this House, and maintain those rights and privileges, which I consider no less necessary for the safety of the people than for the very existence and well-being of parliament. Perhaps I may be permitted, on this occasion, to suggest to the House, that most of the Orders have dropped, and it will be necessary to revive these dropped orders before the House proceeds to dispose of any fresh business."The Speaker
 stated his objections to the present form of proceeding but saw no way of getting out of the difficulty into which ministers had led them. He entertained even a farther objection: whatever had been the intention of the noble lord, the fact was, that the message did stand between their late Speaker and the liberality of the House. It was true that a blank was left with regard to the sum, but the term of the grant, namely, for two lives, was distinctly recommended.Mr. H. Sumner
 said, that after what he had heard, he did not wish to press the matter.Mr. Curwen
 in continuation, said, he should undoubtedly be disposed to give way, if he did not feel it an imperative duty to bring the matter forward. On the occasion, to which he was alluding, he heard Mr. Pitt declare, that the privilege inMr. Curwen,
 in continuation, said, he should undoubtedly be disposed to give way, if he did not feel it an imperative duty to bring the matter forward. On the occasion, to which he was alluding, he heard Mr. Pitt declare, that the privilege in question was, in fact, no privilege, because it might be abused. He (Mr. C.) had called the attention of the House to that declaration, and it received in consequence, the reprobation of the House. Was it, then, to be endured, that they should now act upon a principle, which was then condemned! There never was a time when that House was called upon to exercise a greater jealousy than at the present moment. With respect to treasonable practices, he had no doubt there might be some individuals who were culpable, but as to an organised conspiracy for overturning the constitution, he did not believe that any such existed. What must be the kind of treason, he would ask, that required 240 witnesses to establish it? The calling so many witnesses could be for no other purpose but to prevent the individuals from knowing precisely who were to be brought against them. If the thing had been done without the knowledge of the Crown, it was time a remedy should be applied, and the prisoners have the full benefit of knowing exactly all who were to be examined against them. He hoped no report would be made from the committee about to be appointed, till the individuals who were arraigned, were brought to trial, and their trial concluded. He then moved for "copies of the lists of witnesses served on the prisoners in the Tower, now under arraignment for High Treason."Mr. Curwen,
883 said, he rose to move for a paper, to the production of which he apprehended, there would be no objection. He had availed himself of the privilege which every member possessed of bringing forward a motion, without previous notice, because the importance of the subject was such, in his opinion, as justified that course. It related to what was of the most immediate interest to the people of England, being nothing less than the pure distribution of criminal justice. It was the duty of that House at all times to watch with jealousy the proceedings of the executive government, and particularly so at the present moment, when the constitution of the country was in abeyance, and the rights and liberties of every man in it at the disposal of ministers. By the law of treason, which had always been represented as one of great wisdom and justice, it was required that the lists of witnesses, who were to be summoned, should be delivered to the accused, ten days previously to their trial. But if it should appear, that not more than 41 witnesses were examined to find the bill against them, what would the House think, when lists of 240 witnesses were served upon the prisoners, as the number of those who were to be arrayed against them on their trial? Individuals who were indicted for high treason, had to contend not only against strong prejudices, but against the power of the Crown. That was enough to create jealousy in any mind, but still more so in his, who remembered the introduction of the traitorous correspondence bill in 1793, when it was proposed to substitute felony for treason. The question was
883Mr. Curwen
l.l. considered, that the precedent of lord Onslow's case stood upon different circumstances. At present the Crown had no funds at its disposal beyond a pension for life of 1,200l.l.Mr. Huskisson
 agreed in all that had fallen from his hon. friends in reprobation of this novel and unconstitutional procedure. He contended, that the remuneration so justly due to the late Speaker would be more honourably conferred by the unanimous address of that House, than by the suggestion of any minister.Sir John Newport
 hoped the matter might be taken up this session.Mr. Fremantle
 said he had repeatedly intended to bring the case of this wretched class of boys before the House, and to originate a measure for suppressing the practice complained of. He belonged to a society which had for its object the superseding the necessity of employing boys in this way.Mr. Bennet,
892891 said, he was anxious to call the attention of the House to the motion of which he had given notice, because, however important the other business which was to occupy their attention during the present evening might be, he was sure there was nothing which they would be more impatient to proceed to, than to discharge their debt of gratitude to the individual who had lately filled the chair with such
892891Lord Castlereagh
 said, that, in proposing an answer to the royal Message, he did not mean to pledge the House as to the nature of the proceedings to be afterwards adopted; or whether, in point of fact, any ulterior measures should be pursued. He should confine himself simply to a motion of thanks to the Prince Regent, and to assure his Royal Highness that the House would take the papers into their immediate and serious consideration. In the present stage of this business it would be impossible for him to make any opening as to the actual state of the country; and, indeed, he felt persuaded that it would be most acceptable to the House that he should not now attempt to enter into any details. After the present motion should be disposed of, he intended to submit, that the papers should be referred to a select committee, to be immediately nominated, and to be confined to the same persons as were members of the last committee, except the late attorney-general, who had ceased to be a member of that House. Those persons must be much more competent than any other members to follow up the communication from the Crown; but as it was desirable that the committee should consist of the same number of members, he should propose that the name of the present solicitor-general (sir Robert Gifford) should be substituted for that of the late attorney-general. The noble lord then concluded with moving the address to the effect before stated.Lord Castlereagh
899lettres de cachetlettres de cachet.898 said, that as the noble lord had opened the course of proceedings to which he meant to resort, the House ought seriously to pause before they took another step, which must lead to the subversion of all the liberties of the country. For his part, he confessed that he concurred entirely in the abhorrence which had been expressed in a petition presented from Reading with respect to the measures of his majesty's ministers. He wished he could say, that this was the first step they had taken towards despotic power; but if the House did not stop them now, there
899lettres de cachetlettres de cachet.898Lord Folkestone
 expressed his concurrence in the opinions of the noble lord. A delay of a few days until the approaching trials were over, would, without the apprehension of any improper disclosures, enable the whole House to take the papers into consideration, instead of referring them to the consideration of a Secret Committee.Mr. Curwen
900 objected to this proposal on three grounds: first, it was going out of the way, to insult every other member of the House as not being worthy of such a trust: besides, the House elected the last committee by ballot, under the circumstances that then existed; but circumstances were now entirely different; then we were at the commencement of a session, and now at the close of one: then the powers required were to be exercised till a new session, perhaps till a new parliament. Secondly, the members of the last committee must necessarily be more
900Sir. J. Newport
901 considered the course proposed as unusual. As to the objection of disrespect to the rest of the House, it was to be remembered, that the same inquiry was to be made by this committee as by the former, and that the former was chosen by ballot: but the right hon. baronet, instead of acquiescing in those named by the House itself for making the very same inquiry, had said, "Reject them, and take 21 named by myself."
901Mr. Bathurst
902 said, that the great object of appointing a committee was, to obtain an impartial discussion of the evidence on which the great point of the suspension of our liberties was now to rest. The right hon. gentleman had shown a degree of triumph, because the right hon. baronet had named one of the ministers for this committee (he wished he had not done so); but this afforded no ground for a hasty or inconsiderate appointment. Ministers had preferred a sort of bill of indictment against the people of England, and they were to be tried on charges of sedition and rebellion; but by what jury? He would ask. whether the report of the last committee had given satisfaction to the
902Mr. Brand
lettres de cachet,903 agreed with his hon. friend, that the people were brought to a sort of trial, and that it was highly necessary the jurors should be altogether impartial. He took the earliest opportunity of entering his protest against the measures in contemplation. On former occasions, he had felt himself constrained, painfully constrained, to concur in measures which suspended the liberty of the subject. The circumstances of those times seemed, in some measure, to justify such a course of proceeding; but circumstances at present were so obviously different, that he should not detain the House by dwelling upon them. We were then engaged in a war, not for pride, not for prosperity, but for existence: it was then known, that if discontents existed in the country, they could be fomented from without by a powerful enemy, and every encouragement and assistance held out to the disaffected: those discontents, too, were ramified and extended in every direction through the country. At present, not one of these grounds of alarm existed: no force was in arms against the government, either within or without the country; and the disaffected were without credit, without encouragement. We were at peace with all the world, and the foreign spirit of revolution and disorganization had not only fallen into disrepute, but had been succeeded by a reaction of the very opposite tendency.
lettres de cachet,903Mr. Barham
905904 thought a wrong decision had been come to by the late committee on the information laid before it, and was therefore unwilling to send any new papers before the same tribunal. With respect to the place with which he was
905904Mr. W. Smith
 thought the last committee should have contained more county members. He had given his vote in favour of the result of their report, chiefly because of their unanimity, and that was a circumstance that in any new committee would much influence his vote. The renewal of the suspension would be a more important measure than the first suspension. He did not approve of any individual member nominating a list of members, with the semblance only of a free election.Mr. Protheroe
 supported the amendment, and pressed the noble lord to agree to a new committee of unbiassed and intelligent members, and to lay all the papers before them. On former occasions, the minister had proposed the renewal on his own responsibility. That was a manly mode.— But when it was attempted to mix in a committee, with ministers and their friends, some of those who were generally contrary to them in politics, such a committee ought to be formed upon a larger basis, or it could not be expected to be satisfactory to the country. The proceeding of the noble lord could not farther even his own views. If his proposed committee made a similar report with the last, the people would say, that they were prejudiced and pledged. If that committee, so constituted, presented a different report, then the people would say that they had been alarmed by the public reprobation which their former conduct had received.Mr. Lamb
 contended, that it would be more satisfactory to the House and the country that 42 members should concur in the necessity of the continuance of this measure, than to have merely the report of 21 members selected by the noble lord and his colleagues.Sir W. Burroughs
906 said, the motion of his right hon. friend did not appear to him to suggest the most convenient mode of appointing a committee. If it should be the pleasure of the House to revive the old committee, he should certainly be constant in his attendance. It could not be denied that the old committee would possess greater facilities for conducting the inquiry, and would more readily take up the sequel of that which they had begun, than it could be taken up by any other body of men. But at the same time it must be
906Lord Milton
 was afraid the country would not be satisfied if the old committee were revived without any alteration. He could wish some new members to be added to it. To accomplish this, he supposed he must first vote for the motion of the noble lord, and he presumed it would then be competent for him to propose that other members should be added to the old committee [Cries of No, no!].Mr. Stuart Wortley
 apprehended the course proposed to be pursued, was impracticable now. By the vote of the House it had already been decided, that the committee should consist of twenty-one members. If, then, it should be carried that the old committee should be revived, that decision would be conclusive against the admission of new members, but in cases where the old members could not be obtained; one new member, it was known, must be added in the room of the late attorney-general.The Speaker
 then announced his intention to vote for the amendment.Mr. S. Wortley
 opposed the motion; first, on the ground that part of it was unnecessary, as the committee were already empowered to send for persons, papers, and records; and, secondly, because the appendix would expose many things which it was expedient, for the ends of justice, should not to be exposed.Lord Castlereagh
908 observed, that if the last committee had examined witnesses, they would never have made the report which had excited so much disgust. Could there be a doubt, that many of the circumstances mentioned in that report would have assumed a very different aspect if those busy, meddling, mischievous magistrates who, in order to stand well with the ministers, had furnished all sorts of rumours and charges, had been brought before the committee? If those enlightened gentlemen, who had lately carried on such an interesting correspondence with the home
908Mr. Bennet
909 could assure the hon. gentleman that he was misinformed as to both the circumstances related. No intelligence had been sent to government,
909Mr. Bathurst
 said, that notwithstanding, the failure of his motion, he should offer another. He had understood that several persons had been taken up under the suspension act, and he knew particularly that three persons had been apprehended in Berkshire. It was a grievous thing if those persons should be suffered to rot in gaol indefinitely; but he knew no other means of remedying so great an evil than by the motion which he should now propose. It was, "That it be an instruction to the said committee, that they inquire into the particular case of each and every person detained under the provisions of an act passed in the present session of parliament, 'for enabling his majesty to 'secure and detain such persons as his 'majesty shall suspect are conspiring 'against his person and government;' and that they report to the House, a list of such persons, stating their names, their trades, professions, and occupations, their ages, the places of their confinement, the places where arrested, and the dates of their arrest and commitment, together with their opinion on the necessity and expediency of their arrest, and commitment, and of the continuance of their detention."Lord Folkestone
 opposed the motion. The secretary of state acted upon a grave responsibility, and ought, therefore, to be trusted with a certain discretion. Besides, the motion would defeat the very object of the acts passed this session, which were intended to give the power of detaining in prison without trial, in cases where the ends of justice would not be forwarded by immediate trial.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that having taken an active part in the vote of censure against the eminent person, who seemed to him, to have acted, on that occasion, in a manner not warranted by the usage of the House, he was anxious to express his opinion on the vote now proposed. The House would recollect, that to one act of that description, there was to be opposed fifteen years, of unwearied and able discharge of most important duties. In passing the present vote, he did not feel that the House was pledged to every distinct act of the late Speaker, all that was granted by agreeing to the motion, was the expression of its sense of the general merits of that eminent character.Mr. Wynn
894 thought that the hon. and learned gentleman had taken a very correct view of the matter; but there was another reason, which, in his mind, ought to possess no trifling influence. Although a considerable number of members had voted in the minority against the Speaker's conduct on the occasion alluded to, there was also a very large majority who thought that conduct perfectly conformable with the practice of former Speakers in the best times of the constitution; and all the Study and inquiry which he had been enabled to bestow upon the subject, still further confirmed his opinion of the correctness of that decision. He was extremely sorry that the noble lord had disturbed the unanimity of the House. He was convinced that no one ever filled the chair with more ability or impartiality than lord
894Mr. Bankes
 remarked, that the House was already in one difficulty, and he feared the wording of the address was calculated to produce another, The objection on a former day was, that the Crown should be the first proposer of the grant; and they were now told that the Crown ought to determine the amount. He thought the House ought not to bind itself by any previous pledge or obligation to approve of whatever provision the Crown should think fit. The proper course of proceeding would be, for the Crown to send down a message, stating the inadequacy of its means; and the question of the due extent of liberality would then still rest with the House; but, as the address was now framed, they surrendered all discretion on the subject.Mr. Ponsonby
l. contended, that there could be no similarity in the two cases, as in that of Mr. Speaker Onslow the Crown had the power by law of doing what the address required. The Crown could not now by law grant out of the civil list a larger pension than 1,200l.Mr. Ponsonby
 said, the Crown in the case of Mr. Onslow had not the power by law, as the right hon. gentleman misconceived. It could not make a grant beyond one life.Mr. Rose
895 said, that no attention whatever had been paid to the message, but that the House might, had they seen pro-
895Mr. Wynn
 should support the address on the ground of its being strictly sanctioned by precedent; for example, in the case of the Perceval family, and of the duke of Wellington.Mr. Bankes
l.l.l. had no objection to state, that the intention of the Crown was, to make provision for lord Colchester to the amount of 4,000l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l. said, it was undoubtedly true that lord Colchester enjoyed a place in Ireland of 1,500l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
elevatedcalled893 said, it was with great regret he rose to give any opposition to the present motion, willing as he was to concur in every tribute to the learning and ability of the late Speaker, as well as to every other quality, both of his public and private character. There was, however, a circumstance which must be still fresh in the recollection of the House: he alluded to the speech delivered at the bar of the other House on the close of the session in the year 1813. That speech, it was equally well known, had induced a noble friend of his (lord Morpeth), in the
elevatedcalled893Lord W. Russell
 observed, that the proposed address was in the precise terms of the one voted in the case of Mr. Speaker Onslow.Mr. Bathurst
l.l. said, that so far from considering the intended proposition too liberal, he thought it extremely parsimonious. The situation of Mr. Speaker Onslow was very different. He was entitled to a very large fortune, and would therefore have been able to maintain the dignity of his peerage if he had lived to attain this fortune, which he did not, nor his son after him. The profits of his office being inquired into, they were ascertained to be 3,000l.l.Mr. Holme Sumner
l.l.l.l. apprehended, that if this question should come to be historically discussed some years hence, it would appear to have grown out of the message from the Crown: but he was not going to discuss that now. It did appear to him, that when the grant was made, and it might be made immediately, the House would be shackled as to the amount of the pension to be given; and would have no power to diminish it, if they thought proper. He had heard the sum mentioned which it was proposed to give. He was told that it was 4,000l.l.l.l.Mr. Tierney
l.l.l.l.l.896 said, that as the House were now called, it should seem, to make good the claim of the peerage to support, he should wish to know whether lord Colchester had not a situation amounting to
l.l.l.l.l.896Mr. Tierney
 was of opinion, that if nothing more could be done this session, a resolution should at least be passed, disapproving of the practice.Lord Lascelles
 concurred in the observations that had been made.Mr. Stuart Wortley
 said, that the extreme sufferings of the class of persons for whom the protection of the legislature was now solicited, would, he was persuaded, make a deep impression when their case came to be fully investigated. All men of common feeling and humanity must be anxious to remove a practice, which entailed so much misery, and for which no necessity whatever existed. As to the practicability of employing machinery, there could be no doubt.Mr. Lyttelton
 regretted that the motion of ministers, founded on the message from the Crown, had not been noticed in the votes, where it ought to have been stated that it was afterwards withdrawn. Had this been done, the irregularity of the message would be known to future times.Sir C. Monck
 being encouraged in the idea that something might be done this session, would propose a committee, to whom this petition should be referred.— The noble lord then proposed a select committee, which was accordingly appointed.Lord Milton,
890 said he held in his hand a Petition from certain of the most respectable inhabitants of Sheffield, in favour of a very humble, but a very numerous class of his majesty's subjects; a class, whose calamitous condition had long excited the compassion of every feeling mind. The petitioners prayed that House to take into its consideration the propriety of adopting some means for abolishing the practice of sweeping chimnies by the means of climbing boys. Though the lot of those wretched
890Lord Milton
913912bona fidel.911 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill for the better regulation of Ale-houses throughout the kingdom. The report of the committee, which had been presented went at great length into the existing management of those houses; but it was not his intention to detain the House long, as he had but a few observations to make. The motion was brought forward in consequence of a vote of the committee, which had sat, as the House knew, during the greater part of last session, and a considerable part of the present, for the pur-
913912bona fidel.911Mr. Bennet
 gave the hon. member high praise for the perseverance and labour he and the committee had bestowed on the subject. Every country gentleman must have felt that the most painful part of their duty consisted in being obliged to stop the license or permit the abuse, and that no middle course existed to check the mal-conduct of the publican.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 had no difficulty in stating, that ministers would do every thing in good faith with respect to this measure, both as regarded their official influence and their individual exertions.Lord Castlereagh
 entered his protest against the provisions of this and the other bills connected with it, on the ground of their not being meant to promote real economy; for certainly had that been their object, those ancient offices would not have been at all touched, at least so early. He did not see on what grounds sinecures should be branded with infamy, merely because in one or two instances they had been abused.Mr. Boswell
914 pronounced a high panegyric on the labours of the committee and his hon. friend. The evil called loudly for remedy, and now, when it was proposed that something should be done effectually, it was but an ungracious re-
914Mr. Shaw Lefevre
 saw no irregularity in the manner of introducing this bill. It might have been introduced on the suggestion of the hon. member, without any recommendation on the part of the committee, but being backed by that recommendation, it came with more force.Mr. Sumner
 thought this proceeding of his hon. friend very extraordinary. A committee, of which he was chairman, had been appointed to inquire into the police of the metropolis, and had produced a report which was as yet in the hands of very few members; yet upon this report of a partial case, the information contained in which was still unknown, he moved for leave to bring in a bill for the whole kingdom. He not only objected to the mode and the hurry of the measure, but would oppose some of its most important clauses. He could not allow the power of depriving publicans of their licenses to be taken from the magistrates, which he conceived to be the only great check which the laws had imposed upon irregularities, and the only safe-guard of public morals, till he heard it proved that they had misconducted themselves in so important an exercise of their authority.Mr. Stuart Wortley
l.l. felt it his duty to state, that as a member of that committee which had recommended this bill, he was bound to say that he did then, and still would approve of the principle of the bill as a source of much good. If he knew a plan to get rid of the sinecures without compensation, he would adopt it, but he knew none; and when he considered that by this plan they took away 90 or 100,000l.l.Mr. Calcraft
915 stated, that he held in his hand a Petition which appeared to him to be of a most extraordinary nature. It was signed by Thomas Evennett, formerly a farmer of Waltham-Abbey, in the county of Essex, and had been sent to him by a barrister, who, he apprehended, had been employed by the petitioner in the course of the transactions of which it complained. The cause of complaint was the process, and execution upon an Extent in Aid; and he would venture to say that a greater complication of injuries had never been committed upon an individual, than in the present instance, in the course of what was called law and justice. About 60 weeks ago the whole of this person's property of every kind had been seized, and he himself had laid in gaol ever since. He could not obtain his discharge either by the insolvent act or a commission of bankruptcy, because his creditor was nominally a debtor to the Crown. The prosecution was at the suit of a Mr. Bignold, a banker at Norwich, and secretary to the Norwich Insurance company, and he had succeeded in obtaining this extent from the court of Exchequer, although the debt in question was due to him in his capacity of a private banker, by representing himself to be liable to government for the securities furnished by the Insurance company for the satisfaction of the claims of the revenue. It was quite clear, however, that he was no more liable, though he might be the person sued on the part of the society, than any other subscriber or proprietor; and if he had employed the funds of the society in his banking concerns, that was his own fault, and what indeed he had no right to do; it being in his power, and it being his duty at the same time, to keep these funds in a separate chest. This, however, was the only possible view in, which he could be indirectly regarded as a debtor to the Crown, and of course entitled to sue out this sort of execution against his own private debtors; and a more scandalous or fraudulent pretence,
915Mr. W. Smith
 said, that sinecure had fallen into such disrepute country, that they could be no considered as honourable rewards for services, which they were formerly intended to be. He begged to ask the noble lord, whether he had understood him correctly on a former occasion, that, in case the bill for suppressing these offices failed, the Crown would be advised to withhold its consent from the compensation bill?Sir J. Newport
 considered the hon. member entitled to much praise for the pains he had bestowed in investigating the evil complained of.Mr. Gooch
l.l.l. after a warm eulogium on the merits of the late Speaker, entered into a consideration of the provision which it was desirable to make with respect to him. He adverted to the allowance made to Mr. Speaker Onslow on his retiring from the Chair in the early part of his majesty's reign, which was 3,000l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
l. was glad that the hon. gentleman had agreed to withdraw his amendment, as with all the respect which he entertained for the late Speaker, and with all the conviction which he felt of the justice of liberally rewarding his valuable services, other public duties of an imperative description would have compelled him to vote against it. In fact, he conceived that the sum proposed by the right hon. gentleman was, if any thing, too high, when the circumstances of the country were considered, and when it was also taken into the account that lord Colchester derived an income of 1,500l.Mr. Ponsonby
 observed, that this discussion confirmed him in the idea that his proposal was, under all circumstances, the best; and he recommended the House to adhere to it; at the same time he must add, that the place in Ireland was given as a compensation for one that had been relinquished.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 opposed this amendment, and deprecated the principle, that the Speaker of the House of Commons was to consider a peerage as the invariable reward of his services. Such an expectation was calculated to be very injurious to the privileges of that House in any contest which it might have with the other House, or with the Crown.The Hon. J. W. Ward
919 adverting to the motion which had been made on Tuesday, and afterwards withdrawn, for taking into consideration the Message from the Prince Regent, recommending to the House to make a prevision for their late Speaker, expressed his surprise to find no notice
919Mr. Ponsonby,
 said, that he certainly understood it to be the general feeling of the House, on the occasion alluded to, that no notice should be taken of the motion which he had made.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 after assuring the Speaker that he did not attribute to him the slightest neglect, contended, that the feeling of the House had been misconceived; and that all that he and those who thought with him had agreed to was, not to negative the motion which the chancellor of the exchequer had made, but to allow it to be withdrawn. It was by no means intended that the proposition should not appear on the Journals.Mr. Ponsonby,
920 maintained, that the proceeding which took place on Tuesday was the consequence of a wish to preserve unanimity on the subject. It now ap-
920Lord Castlereagh
 said, that the chancellor of the exchequer had distinctly expressed his wish to withdraw the motion in question, in order to give time for the reconsideration of it before the next sitting of the House. All the House agreed that it was desirable, that whatever they did for their late Speaker should originate from them; and this opinion, it was also most desirable, should show itself in the Journals,Mr. Wynn
 observed, that no one could ever mistake the fact, that a message had been sent down to the House, on which no proceeding had taken place; but that next day the House originated a proceeding to which the message related. On this subject, the expressive silence of the Journals would be as good a guard of the privileges of the House as the most laborious entry could have been. He would have had no objection to an entry on the Journals at the time, stating the circumstance as it had occurred; but it did not seem to him to be necessary to go back for the purpose of effecting this object.Mr. Canning
 remarked, that if it was right to make such an entry at any time, it was right then.Mr. Ponsonby
 recommended, either that the Message should be expunged from the Journals, or that notice should be taken in them of the motion of the chancellor of the exchequer, and of the proceeding thereon.Mr. Wynn
 said, it did not seem to him, however, that it was any inconvenience that it should appear on the Journals, that a message had been sent down to the House from the Crown, and that no proceeding had taken place upon it. In fact, I no proceeding had taken place; for his right hon. friend did not regularly withdraw his motion.Mr. Bankes
 protested, that it had never entered into his mind, or the minds of his friends that the motion should not appear on the Journals as having been withdrawn, although they were willing not to negative it. Those were two things perfectly distinct. All that he and they wished was, that it should appear on the Journals that the motion was withdrawn. For that purpose he would now move, "That the following entry be made in the Journal of this House of Tuesday the 3rd day of June, after the entry of the Prince Regent's Message concerning Charles Lord Colchester, late Speaker of this House: motion made, and question proposed, that his Royal Highness's said most gracious Message be referred to a committee of the whole House, for Thursday next; and the said motion was, with leave of the House, withdrawn."Mr. Ponsonby
 observed, that this was to call on the Mouse to affirm a proposition which was untrue. The general understanding was, that the motion was to be considered as not having been made.Lord Castlereagh
Hœ nugœ seria ducunt in mala.ss.923 was astonished that a bill, which ought to have been crushed
Hœ nugœ seria ducunt in mala.ss.923Lord Deerhurst
925l.l.l.924 said:—I heartily concur with those who oppose the further progress of the bill. As it is desirable to hold out every inducement to tempt the residence of gentlemen in the country, the protection of game is, in this view, of considerable consequence. Agreeing in this point, I would ask, if the tyranny of
925l.l.l.924Mr. Curwen
 said, that a clause in the bill vested the power of granting licences for the sale of game in the hands of a justice of peace. These licences would be granted with an unsparing hand, and tippling and drinking of all kinds would be carried on where they were conferred; so that if the poacher changed his habits from one vicious tone, he would be only transferring them to another equally bad. He was therefore averse to the bill.Sir C. Burrell
926 was sorry that the bill was likely to meet the reception which awaited it, particularly when he considered that the system which it went to remedy, vitiated the morals of that large class of the community—he meant the peasantry,
926Mr. Wilberforce
 thought that the sale of game, as was now proposed, was utterly incompatible with the present system of the game laws. He hoped that the purchaser of game would be rendered liable to some penalty, but the present measure was so objectionable in its principle, that he could not agree to it under any modification.Mr. George Bankes
 spoke in favour of going into the committee.Mr. Preston
 was of opinion, that the best course would be, to make game private property, and therefore he should oppose the present bill, or any measure that went short of that object.Sir John Sebright
927 said, that he conceived the country peculiarly obliged to the hon. colonel for his persevering endeavours to get rid of the abomination of the game laws, though he was sorry he could not congratulate him on the success which had hitherto attended his efforts.—The only legislative enactment that had sprung
927Mr. Gurney
port d'armes, stated, that he had made inquiries as to how far their new regulations, which appeared extremely analogous to those proposed by the hon. colonel had been found to answer their purpose in France; and he begged leave to produce the reply of a gentleman who had occupied very confidential situations in the foreign department in that country; he states, that the game is the property of the owner of the soil; that a port d'armes,Mr. Gurney
928 observed, that the violences so much complained of had been tempted almost of inevitable consequence by the game preservers. That while sporting was sporting in England, they had been little heard of. When wild ani-
928Mr. Gurney
 miantained, that in those countries where game was considered private property, poaching had increased and game disappeared. He denied that that law which was applicable to the character and usages of the French people, would be equally applicable to the character and usages of the English.Mr. Goulburn
 said, he believed it would be the most prudent way not to press his motion for the second reading of the bill to a division. He thought it would be best to defer any further proceeding, and see if at a future period a more acceptable measure could be devised by a committee.Colonel Wood
 expressed his wish to withdraw the amendment, but intimated his intention of persevering in the proposition of extending the reversionary grant to two lives.Mr. H. Sumner
l.l. contended, that the sum proposed was very insufficient. Necessary as economy was in the present state of affairs, the country was not yet so poor as to be unable justly to reward those who had so long devoted themselves to its service as the noble lord in question. He thought not only that the sum to be granted in the first instance to lord Colchester should be larger, but that the reversionary grant should extend to two lives. In pursuance of this opinion, he moved, as an amendment, that the sum of 5,000l.l.Mr. Holme Sumner
l.l.918l.l. declared, that no man could feel more grateful than himself for the services of the late Speaker, but it would be inconsistent with his ideas of economy to grant more than had been proposed, in the present state of the country; and he felt some indignation at the manner in which the grant had been at first proposed to the House. Under the present circumstances of the country, and according to all the precedents, he could not for himself agree to pay the late Speaker 4,000l.l.918l.l.Mr. Tierney
 expressed the highest regard for the late Speaker, but coincided in the sentiments expressed by his right hon. friend.Mr. Curwen
l.l. coincided heartily in the sentiments of his right hon. friend, and should move, that the words 3,000l.l.Mr. Lambton
 was of opinion, that to insert in the Journals that such a motion had been made and withdrawn, would render the whole matter clear.Sir C. Monck
 observed, that it was probably his duty to explain this matter as far as he was able to do so. It was perfectly true that the motion made by the chancellor of the exchequer on Tuesday not appearing in the votes of the House had not been entered in the Journals. The motion made by the hon. member for Carlisle, and subsequently withdrawn, did appear in the votes of the House, and would therefore appear in the Journals. The difference between the two cases was this: He (the Speaker) understood it to have been the general sense of the House that the motion which had been made by the chancellor of the exchequer was (on the suggestion of an hon. gentleman, in which suggestion there appeared to him to be a general acquiescence) to be considered as not having been made at all. It might, perhaps, have been his duty to inquire more explicitly on that occasion the wish of the House. If so, it was only a proof of that which, on taking the chair, he knew would be his fate—the necessity of his frequently throwing himself on the indulgence of the House [Hear, hear!]. It was not very easy at present to suggest the course by which the omission might be cured; the motion of the chancellor of the exchequer not having been regularly withdrawn, on question, as the motion of the hon. member for Carlisle had been.The Speaker
l.l.917 contended, that no one could estimate the services and merits of the late Speaker more highly than himself, but insisted that, in fixing the amount of the grant, there were other considera-
l.l.917Sir M. W. Ridley
921 distinctly recollected what had passed on the occasion. It was suggested to his right hon. friend, when he was about to withdraw his motion, that it would be better that it should not appear on the Journals that such a motion had been made and withdrawn. This sug-
921Lord Palmerston
 was persuaded that a Select Committee might make great progress in investigating the subject during the present session; and, certainly, there was no subject which more loudly demanded immediate investigation.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 seconded the motion, and described a case of great hardship at Durham to prove the evil of extents in aid.Sir M. W. Ridley
 had no objection to the motion, and declared, that the only object which he and his colleagues had in view on this question was, that of securing the rights of the Crown without doing injustice to the subject.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
936l.l.l.l.l.l. said, it was rather strange that the right hon. gentleman should have been so long silent, if he really relied on the deductions of his own reasoning; and that he had suffered two bills to pass, and to be carried up to the Lords, without opposition, which were much more objectionable, in every point of view, than the present. The right hon. gentleman had acted unfairly in leaving out the savings that would fall in from the abolition of the offices in Ireland. This was a most important omission when calculating the amount of the future balance to the public from the present measures. The compensation was given in lieu of all the offices, and the right hon. gentleman had compared its amount with the aggregate salaries of only a part. The right hon. gentleman had said, that in two years 11,000936l.l.l.l.l.l.Lord Castlereagh
 objected to the clause. The acceptance of a place caused the seat of a member to be vacated, because the member was supposed to be thereby more under the influence of the Crown, and; was therefore sent back to his constituents, to determine how far he was still worthy of their confidence; but in the acceptance of a pension the case was quite different, for the pension was received on retiring from office, and at a time when the person ceased to be under the influence of government.Mr. Canning
937 said, the pensions under
937Mr. Robinson
 was surprised that gentlemen should have kept back their constitutional objections to this late stage of the bill. As to any man looking towards this remote pension as a bribe, he did not believe that there would be much competition for such a prize. It must be, as indeed it ought to be, a hopeless speculation in a pecuniary point of view.Mr. Robinson
"Quicquil erit: superanda omnis fortuna ferendcest."938 differed from the right hon. gentleman: he thought that the very limitation of the rewards would excite a keener competition. Any person at all acquainted with commercial speculations knew well, that a great prize or two awakened a keener appetite than many small ones. This bill would, for the first time, make politics a trade; a circumstance the more to be regretted at a moment when the public were not disposed to look with peculiar favour on official men of whatever party. As to the argument about the necessity of remunerating men who left lucrative professions, he conceived that it would be better if such persons remained in their profession, if gain was their object, and if they could not be contented with the higher honour of being called to assist the sovereign with advice for the benefit of the people. Much had been said about the services rendered to
"Quicquil erit: superanda omnis fortuna ferendcest."938Mr. Gordon
 said, that the power of the House of Commons was at an end, if it could rot take away any unnecessary and hurtful prerogative from the Crown without supplying an indemnification.Mr. Hanmersley
l.l.935l.l.,l.l., thought that a compensation ought to be granted to the Crown for those means of rewarding public services of which it would be deprived by the abolition of sinecures: the only question was, as to the mode and amount of such compensations. He would strongly object to that part of the measure which made length of service a criterion of merit. If so, did any body suppose that three years were sufficient to be spent in a cabinet office to entitle the individual to a cabinet pension? Besides what reason was there for making a difference between the period of their service, and that of those who held inferior situations? This measure was spoken of as one of economy; but its economy to the nation would not be considerable. In the first place, it might create a greater expenditure. At the end of two years government would have at its disposal pensions to the amount of 11,000l.l.935l.l.,l.l.,Mr. Tierney
 was far from wishing to object to the motion; but he begged to suggest to the hon. gentleman, whether he thought any public advantage could be reaped by entering upon an inquiry into so extensive a subject at so late a period of the session. Might it not be more expedient to move a resolution, that the House would take the matter into consideration early in the next session.Mr. Wrottesley
l.l. contended, that by this measure the public would be a gainer by the difference between 100,000l.l.Mr. Calcraft
933 said, he had no intention, in the motion which he was about to submit to the House, to reflect in the slightest degree on those gentlemen who held the situations of commissioners of bankrupts. He knew the numerous difficulties under which they laboured, and he was aware, that, in the circumstances in which they were placed, they performed their duty better than could be expected from them. The evils, however, of the present system were intolerable. In proof of this he referred to the numerously and respectably signed petition which he had presented to the House on the subject, and which conveyed the sense of all the commercial interest of the metropolis, complaining that the place allotted in Guildhall for the business was totally inadequate for the purpose. The crowd and the noise rendered it impossible to enter into a proper investigation of the proof of debts. This might easily be remedied. But the most material evil was, that a system of horrible and scandalous fraud existed in the administration of the Bankrupt Laws—to such a degree, indeed, that of the number of bankruptcies within the last two or three years, half the bankrupts made no dividends at all. Many other grievances he
933Mr. John Smith
 thought, that the best mode of securing the attention of parliament to this important subject, in the next session, would be to appoint a committee, and to proceed in the inquiry, as far as possible, during the present session.Mr. Grenfell
 thought the bill highly objectionable in the present bankrupt state of the country. He conceived that the Crown had sufficient means of rewarding its servants cut of the old pension list; and if the bill should unfortunately survive so long as a thid reading, he should move a rider to that effect.Sir R. Heron
 repeated his objections to the principle of the bill, considering it a principle wholly new in the government of this country, and calculated to degrade; the character of public men.Lord Milton
 contended, that the pensions were a substitution for offices, on receiving which members were obliged to vacate their seats.Lord Milton
941940, adverting to his motion on Thursday last, for an instruction to the secret committee, that they should obtain information with respect to the number of persons confined in consequence of the suspension of the Habeas Corpus, observed, that the motion which he was about to submit to the House was similar in substance, but did not contain every thing comprehended in his former motion. It appeared to him to be most important to obtain the information to which he alluded before any proceeding took place, such as it was apprehended might be proposed, for the renewal of the suspension. On the former occasion the noble lord objected to give the instruction to the committee, on the ground, first, that it would be putting the secretary of state on his trial; and, secondly, that it would tend to divulge circumstances which ought not it present to be made public. He conceived that the adoption of that proposition would not have occasioned any inconvenience to the secretary of state, or any danger to the country. However, the Home thought proper to reject it. He should now confine his motion to a return of he persons in confinement, without any inquiry into the cause of their apprehension. His motion, however, would compise several objects; and first, the numler of such persons. It was most desirabe to know how many persons had been confined under the suspension. Whether that number, however, should turn out to be large or small, he should equally mainain that the suspension was reprehensible. If small, he contended that the suspension ought not to have taken place or such slight grounds; if large, he reprobaed confiding powers so important to those who used them so extensively. Next, he wished to know the circumstances and occupations in life of any persons who were confined, before they were found out to be traitors. Never, in any former case, he the Habeas Corpus been suspended unless when persons of some opulence and consequence were implicated in seditious proceedings. In the present instance it was notorious that directly the contrary was the fact.— He had gone yesterday to leading gaol, but found that, by an order from the secretary of state he was prevented from seeing the prisoners confined there. He had, however, made some inquires with respect to them. He learnt that ne—a man of the name of Knight—was circumstances so extremely needy as to be hardly able
941940Lord Folkestone
942 observed, that seeing that the allegations on which the bills for Suspending the liberties of the country had been proved to be false; seeing, that under those bills, several persons had experienced a very cruel punishment; seeing that these practices were illegal, unconstitutional, and unknown until the unfortunate period of 1794; seeing that they augmented as the apparent necessity diminished, and that now, when there was no pretence for them, they existed to a greater extent than at the time when some pretence might be assigned, he hoped his noble friend would not alter his motion, which asked as little as could be asked from any administration holding the power which had been confided to the present. He was at a loss to conjecture why his noble friend's motion was resisted. In 1797 he (sir F. Burdett), in similar circumstances, made a similar motion, which was assented to without any hesitation. At least the country was entitled to know the names and every thing tending to give as much security to the persons who were confined as was compatible with the deprivation of their freedom. This would appear to be the more necessary when it was recollected that, on a former occasion, the individuals who were confined under a suspension of the Habeas Corpus, were never brought to trial. A bill of indemnity was passed in favour of those by whose authority they had been apprehended; and it was proved
942Sir F. Burdett
943 remarked, that the greater part of the hon. baronet's speech was addressed, not to the motion, but to a subject which had long before been discussed in that House—the confidence which the
943Mr. Canning
944 was a good deal surprised, that the right hon. gentleman should agree to such an amendment and oppose the original motion. Did not the disaffected know at this moment who were taken up? It was impossible to prevent the friends and neighbours of any man so apprehended from knowing the fact as soon as it happened. What secret, then, could be communicated to them by exposing the names? To his understand-
944Mr. Ponsonby
 shortly replied, after which, the question being put, That the words proposed to be left out stand part of the question,Lord Folkestone
To give the world assurance of a fiend.!"devilOn which each devil"A combination and a form indeed,946 said, that he had a Petition to present which gave a fresh instance of the destructive immorality of the borough-mongering system. It was from a person of the borough of Haslemere, who stated, that at the last general election certain property had been conveyed to him by lord Lonsdale, to enable him to give his vote in favour of the candidates proposed by his lordship. He came, in fact, under the denomination of what, in borough-mongering language, is called "a Faggot." By these means had two gentlemen been returned to that House. Now this person had a qualm of conscience as to delivering again to lord Lonsdale the property which had been conveyed to him to suit the occasion. He thought it would be improper not to keep that which he had sworn to be his own. In consequence of this determination, he stated, that he had suffered much persecution at the instigation of lord Lonsdale. He still held the property, but he had at last been served with an ejectment by lord Lonsdale. He (sir F. B.) thought it impossible, when the petition should have been read, that the House should take no farther step against a practice which was the worst of treason, for it involved every feature of that crime which was odious and disgusting; it was a violation of the constitution, and combined perjury with ingratitude, want of faith with breach of trust. It was a miniature picture, com. prehending all offences, and presenting an exact resemblance of the borough-mongering system. It was that system which created the dissatisfaction which the ministry wished to put down by force. The public at large knew that they had a right to be represented, and that no peer should interfere in the election of members.
To give the world assurance of a fiend.!"devilOn which each devil"A combination and a form indeed,946Sir F. Burdett
 wished to know more particularly the grievance complained of in the petition, and its prayer.Mr. Bankes
 replied, that among many grievances a painful one was, that the petitioner had been the object of vindictive prosecution. The prayer was, that the House would take the case into consideration, and afford such redress as it might think proper.—The hon. baronet was about to read the whole petition, whenSir F. Burdett
 interfered, and objected to the reading of the petition, as being contrary to the usage of the House. He contended, in the first place, that a court of law was the place in which the petitioner should seek redress, and in the second place, that as to the original circumstance it was too distant in point of time to be made the subject of parliamentary consideration.Mr. Bankes
 observed, that the petition stated a distinct grievance to have been suffered by the individual; and where a grievance was felt, he hoped that in this country there was always a remedy. He trusted, therefore, that an opportunity would be afforded him, by the reception of the petition, to exercise his judgment on the case.Mr. Peter More
 thought the House would not consult its own dignity by refusing to receive the petition.Sir R. Fergusson
in limine.949 said, that if it was a rule of the House to prevent the reading of petitions in the way that he had done, nothing could be more easy than to describe the substance. He was not at all surprised at the objections made to the reception of the petition by the member for Corfe Cas-
in limine.949Sir F. Burdett
vice versa.bona fide947 could not see how the House could take up the question, so as to decide upon it. A committee of the House had seated the two members. Would it be contended that this was wrong? In fact it was, if any thing, a legal question. The hon. baronet could say no more than that the petitioner had a legal title to his conveyed property; but that he had been served with an ejectment.
vice versa.bona fide947Mr. Bathurst
 attributed the motive of the noble mover to be, to accuse government of improper treatment of individuals [No, no!]. Then, why object to the amendment, which withheld the names? In various parts of the country there might be a connexion amongst the disaffected, but not such a connexion as might cause persons to know who had been taken up at hundreds of miles distance. The giving of the numbers and ages would prevent the knowledge by their partisans of what particular persons had been apprehended; but the names could be of no other purport than to form a ground of imputation against ministers, which must have the effect of weakening the hands of government, whose measures had already obtained the confidence of the House.Mr. Bathurst
, in the absence of the noble secretary of state, said, he had no objection to agree to a motion for the numbers, ages, and places of confinement of the parties who had been committed; but he submitted, whether any object would be attained, and whether it would not be detrimental to the parties themselves, to give their names as required. As to the letters written by Knight, in Reading gaol, the letter which had been sent to his wife containing a petition, but of which she was unable to pay the postage, had been forwarded to the home-office, and thence to the individual for whom it was intended. The noble lord ought to consider the great burthen thrown on ministers in the execution of the purposes of the act, and that, if they failed to commit a suspicious person, they were quite as responsible as if they committed an innocent individual.Mr. Addington
 hoped the House would not be unwilling to hear the petition read. It stated some things which went against the honour and dignity of the House of Commons, out of which some measures might spring which might be of importance to the character of the House for its own vindication. The public discontent did certainly arise, in some part, from an idea of the improper construction of that House. He could not see how the petition could be refused.Mr. Curwen
 would not discuss the question as to the authority of the courts of law. As he understood the matter, a committee sat on the election, and the petitioner had been a sort of agent or engine of the noble lord who nominated, as it appeared, to this borough. The petitioner swore to the property conveyed to him, and had kept it; and it did not appear, from all the circumstances, that he had a much earlier opportunity of stating his case. He felt it incumbent on the House to take some measures in this case; but how could the whole case be known, except the House heard the petition read? The House was bound to consider a subject of this nature.Mr. Brand
 was surprised at ministers refusing what must shortly be fully known in the ordinary course of things. The calendar at the next assises must disclose the names that were now withheld. It was of the utmost importance for the House to be in possession of the names and description of the parties confined; for if it appeared that no man of property or connexion had been committed, that no foreign correspondence had been detected, or any agitation in a higher sphere of society, those considerations must weigh very seriously with the House, when they came to consider the question of the farther suspension of the liberty of the subject.Sir W. Burroughs
948bona fidebona fide. must protest against the doctrine, that it was not the right of a member to read from a petition in the course of his speech. He never heard so from the Chair; but he remembered a good deal about the mode of presenting petitions; and what the presenter should; or should not say on such occasions. It had been said, that the member should have read the petition, and seen that there was nothing in it improper. The House was always in a state of embarrass-merit on questions of this sort. If the Statements of the petition, as far as they had been mentioned, were true, they told facts which were alike anomalous to the law of the land and the constitution of that House. A freeholder or voter should be so 948bona fidebona fide.Mr. W. Smith
 said, that he wished to of fer a few words relative to the right of a member to read in his place a petition as part of his speech. It certainly was expected from every member, that he should read a petition before he presented it, in order that he might be enabled to state to the House whether it was couched in decorous language, and what were the facts it contained; but it was contrary to the invariable practice to read the petition itself in the course of his speech. In answer to another point alluded to at an early part of the debate, when it was urged that if a petition was brought up, it should afterwards be read at the table; he was of opinion, that if the petition was in itself objectionable, or if the prayer was such as could not be complied with, it was in that stage, as well as in any other liable to be opposed.The Speaker
 thought, that the circumstances of the case were of such a nature as to entitle the petition to the consideration of the House. He observed, that he had known a man to be called upon to return conveyed property the day after his vote. The conveyance was made to him by the agent of a peer who nominated for the borough.Sir H. Parnell
960 said, that one great object of the bill was, the appointment of a civil engineer in each county to regulate and inspect the public works therein undertaken or the plans or presentments made. Another was the providing that all presentments, except on extraordinary occasions, should be made in the Spring assizes. It also extended the power of traversing all the objects of county assessment, by those who paid
960Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 approved of the general principle of the bill, but he objected to levying all the assessments at one period of the year, as being calculated to create general inconvenience, and often distress.Mr. Barry
 suggested the expediency of relieving the grand juries from so much of their oath of secrecy as related to the regulation of public works, conceiving that public opinion was the best check on improvident expenditure.Mr. Peel
 referred to the report of the committee of the House on this subject, and contended, that every page of it rendered such a measure as the present necessary.Mr. Abercrombie
965 said, that government had been driven to the measure by the necessity of the case. He could see no good ground for even one day's delay. The act had been passed by several successive parliaments, and no gentleman could be supposed ignorant of its contents. As the act was near its expiration, and thereby the government of Ireland would be divested of its present powers, it was thought necessary to revive it. Papers had been produced respecting the disturbances in Louth. The effect of these papers was attempted to be distorted, so as to show that there was no reason for renewing the act, except the disturbances in Louth. The government proclamation applied only to Louth; but not on the desire of the magistrates, because of a particular out-
965Mr. V. Fitzgerald
969968 said, that the hon. and learned gentleman had argued as if he (Mr. P.) claimed the powers of the insurrection act on the sole ground that those powers, when formerly granted, had not been abused. Now, be had relied on this reasoning. He had merely said, that if the authority conferred on the government of Ireland had been abused, it would have been a strong reason for refusing a continuance of it; but he had never asked the grant of large discretionary powers on the sole ground, that when formerly given they had been exercised with prudence, lenity, and moderation. He particularly disclaimed at the time any such plea, and rested the measure entirely on the necessity of the case. The hon. and learned gentleman was likewise mistaken when he said, that he had referred to the state of the county of Louth alone as the only justification of the measure he recommended. He had not used any such argument, as would be evident when it was recollected that he had mentioned the existence of the insurrection act in two other countries,—Tipperary, and Limerick. He had then said, that if the act were allowed to expire at the end of this session, these two counties would be deprived of the benefit of its protection, as well as the county to which it had lately been extended. He was led to attend to the county of Louth more particularly, and to describe its situation, because the disturbances which called for its exercise there were more recently laid before the House; and the atrocities with which they were accompanied, had made the deepest impression on the country, and were more fresh, in the recollection of gentlemen. His argument was, that though the country was generally tranquil, yet if there was one part of it so disturbed that the laws could not be executed in their usual course, it was necessary to arm the government with this act, to be exercised on its responsibility, when the emergency arose. The motion of the hon. baronet appeared to him to be very extraordinary. He did not oppose the passing of the act, but he proposed that the bill should be suspended till farther inquiry was made, and with this object he would move for a committee. He (Mr. P.) denied that there was any reason for the appointment of such a committee. If there was a measure brought before parliament, on which
969968Mr. Peel
 observed, that although the bill was not as effectual as he could wish it to be, yet in the present state of the session he thought it more prudent to pass the measure than to permit things to remain in their present state.Mr. Cooper
 strongly recommended, that if there was to be but one presentment in a year, that presentment should be made at one assizes, and re-considered at the next.Mr. Croker
971 contended, that, by the present bill, the Irishman would be subjected to greater oppression than the Englishman; for the latter had counsel allotted to him, while the former was liable to be carried off without a moment's warning by a set of fellows well known in Ireland (he meant no disrespect to the right hon. gentleman) by the name of "Peelers," and then to be hurried before a set of intolerant bigotted Orange magistrates; thence to be thrust into prison, where he would be half starved, and would linger till the government should please to transport him to Botany Bay; and all this for no other offence, probably, than for walking a hundred yards from his own House; perhaps in his own garden, and for stopping an hour or two longer than usual to sup with a neighbouring friend. As to some of the counties alleged to be disturbed, he could say of his own knowledge that Tipperary was perfectly quiet, and
971General Mathew
970 entered into an elaborate examination of the various clauses of the act; commented in strong terms on its severity; and showed, that while it was inefficient for the purpose for which it was enacted, it produced the greatest inconvenience and oppression wherever it was enforced. He particularly dwelt on die immense disproportion between the numbers apprehended and the numbers convicted in the several counties; and argued, that as it was to be presumed that the petty sessions, so much praised by the right hon. gentleman had done their duty, therefore all those acquitted had been justly acquitted, and had consequently been falsely and wrongfully arrested. In support of this argument he stated, that in Tipperary 178 persons were apprehended, and 132 of these were acquitted: in another county 67 were apprehended and
970Sir W. Burroughs
 approved of the measure as far as it went.Sir F. Flood
 said, that this measure was not a new creation, but one which had been found beneficial, and which it was therefore prudent to continue. As to the inflammatory speeches, which had been made, they did not tend to tranquillize Ireland, or to promote its prosperity.Sir F. Flood
 opposed the bill, as being calculated to deprive the gentlemen of the county of their proper influence and authority, and to transfer it to the county surveyors.Sir G. Hill
964963962 rose to move, that the bill should be referred to a committee this day se'nnight, in place of this evening, for the purpose of having an opportunity of moving for the appointment of a select committee to inquire if there existed any necessity for this measure. The chief secretary for Ireland, had laid before the House, in the last session, a copy of a dispatch from lord Whitworth to lord Sidmouth, upon the state of the disturbances then prevailing in Ireland; and, a short time ago, he presented to the House papers, referring to certain outrages which had occurred in the county of Louth.—These documents he should propose to refer to a select committee, for the purpose of ascertaining, whether they afforded sufficient grounds to justify the continuation of the Insurrection act. It was upon the last of these documents that the right hon. gentleman called upon the House to continue these most severe and unconstitutional measures. But it was incumbent upon the House, before it acceded to his wishes, to exercise its inquisitorial powers, and minutely examine, whether the disturbed state of only four baronies in one county of Ireland, was a sufficiently strong case to show the necessity of this measure. The right hon. gentleman had also endeavoured to induce the House to sanction his proposal, by saying, the Irish government were entitled to have full confidence placed in them. But when it was a question, whether or not the most essential parts of the constitution were to be suspended, nothing could justify the House in acceding to it, but such a case being made out as should satisfy the mind of every member, that the circumstances of the country required it. He did not mean to blame the Irish government for the manner in which they had administered this law; but he meant to say, that no feeling of confidence in it ought to be permitted to have any influence upon the House in forming its judgment upon the question of continuing it. This law was one of such uncommon severity, that its provisions could not be too often brought before the House; it went to create six new transportable offences—to enable the magistrates at sessions to proceed to trial, without either grand or petit juries—and to sentence persons guilty of no greater crime than being absent from their homes after sunset, to be
964963962Sir H. Parnell
 spoke in favour of the bill, though he apprehended the expense attending the appointments would be more considerable than had been at first apprehended.Sir H. Parnell
 saw no reason to be dissatisfied with the general spirit of the bill. He must still, in candour, confess that the clause which confined the passing of presentments to one particular assizes or sessions, was, in his mind, likely to create inconvenience to the civil business of the county.Sir N. Colthurst
967only966 said, that all his hon. friend proposed was, to defer the bill for a week, to give more opportunity of inquiring into the reasons of it; yet that was to be refused. The right hon. gentleman asserted, that the refusal of the Catholic petitions had nothing to do with the disturbances, but how was an English member to form his judgment on the modest assertions of the right hon. gentleman? The House should pause awhile before they renewed an act of such severity. As far as he understood the bill, it gave a power by which even an innocent man might be transported for seven years, because he was absent from home. It was rather curiously observed, that the punish-
967only966Sir S. Romilly
 urged the immediate forwarding of the measure.Sir J. Newport
 lamented that the present measure should be necessary, but considering it so, he should vote for it. He wished, however, that it should not extend beyond six weeks after the next meeting of parliament, as it would then ensure the consideration of the situation of Ireland.Sir J. Newport
972 said, that the question was treated by the hon. general and the hon. baronet who preceded him, as if there was no case in which the government ought to be trusted with extraordinary powers. It was treated as if the re-enact-
972Mr. Blake
 defended the measure; for though Ireland was tranquil at present, it was to be apprehended that the disorders which prevailed in England might soon extend to that country.Mr. Knox
1020101910181017 rose to call the attention of the House to a subject of the greatest importance, both to the welfare of the government and to the liberty of the subject. He had found it stated in a Leeds paper, which he had read that morning, that a person of the name of Oliver had been in the north, trying to excite people to illegal acts, for the purpose of entrapping them. The hon. baronet then read the following statement contained in the second edition of the Leeds Mercury:—1020101910181017Sir F. Burdett
 rose to order. He did not mean to say, that the hon. baronet was out of order, but he should be equally in order in moving that strangers should withdraw. [Loud shouts of Hear from the ministerial benches, which were repeated by the opposite side].Mr. Wynn
 appealed to the House whether he had pronounced any eulogium on Mr. Reynolds. He had said, that Mr. Reynolds had been engaged in the rebellion, but that he had afterwards avowed his error, and discharged his duties with, fidelity.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that if the hon. baronet had objected to the supply because the question of grievance had not been answered, he should not have interfered. He did not think, however, that the question of what credit a jury would give to such a witness was a grievance. Certainly, that House had always held, that grievances might be inquired into when the Crown came to demand a supply.Mr. Wynn
 wished to ask the noble lord whether Mr. Reynolds, of infamous memory, was appointed consul-general to Malta?Mr. Bennet
 believed that several juries had given credit to Mr. Reynolds testimony, and he did not understand why the hon. member should attach infamy to Mr. Reynolds's character, unless it rendered a man infamous to be instrumental in the discovery of treasonable practices. Mr. Reynolds had been employed in his majesty's service in Portugal, and also in the post-office at Dublin, and had performed his duties with great integrity and credit; and therefore he had no hesitation in recommending him as consul-general to Malta.Lord Castlereagh
 did not impute any discredit to a man for coming forward and giving his evidence On such occasions, but he held, that a man who had been an accomplice in the crime, and who betrayed his associates, was an individual on whom no reliance could be afterwards placed.Mr. Bennet
 repeated, that he did not consider it any degradation to a man to give his evidence in a court of justice in support of the laws. He had never heard any imputation against Mr. Reynolds's personal character, or the evidence which he had given; nor had he heard of any act discreditable to him, except his having been engaged in a rebellion, for which he had made the best atonement in his power.Lord Castlereagh
protegé always understood that Mr. Reynolds was a man of notoriously infamous character. It had been proved on a trial, in which he gave evidence, that he had been guilty of the most atrocious crimes. Captain Lymington and his brother had sworn, that he had poisoned their mother; this stood recorded on the printed trial; and that he had broken open some private drawers, from which he had taken many hundred pounds. Many other circumstances were sworn to, as appeared in the printed trial. It was sworn on that occasion, that he was not worthy of being credited on his oath; but he had since become an important personage, and the protegéSir F. Burdett
 said, that such a motion would unquestionably be strictly parliamentary. As to the assertion on the trial, that Mr. Reynolds ought not to be believed on his oath, successive juries had believed him on his oath, and parliament also had believed him. He did not think Mr. Reynolds's character was tainted with any thing more than rebellion, though that was a great taint: but he had avowed his error, had expressed his contrition, and had manifested his sincerity in a court of justice, by bringing traitors to deserved punishment.Lord Castlereagh
1022 said, his view of this matter had no reference to any particular government. He would reprobate such conduct by whatever government it was countenanced. With respect to the general character of spies and informers, they might merit their reward, but to hold them up as objects of respect was most extraordinary; and in regard to the credit due to their testimony, no jury ought to believe
1022Sir F. Burdett
 desired that the question before the House might be read.Mr. Wynn
 apprehended, that in a committee of supply the subject was quite open to discussion. He now asked the noble lord, did Reynolds receive a pension from the government?Sir F. Burdett
 observed that, notwithstanding the enforcement of standing orders every question of supply was necessarily connected with the grievances of the people. The Crown demanded the money; the Commons had a right to demand a redress of grievances, and it was no light matter to have persons like Reynolds quartered upon them as pensioners. What would the country say, when they heard that the noble lord intended to send forth a person of this degraded cast as his majesty's consul-general to a foreign part? What would the continental ministers say, when they became acquainted with the character of this representative of the government? In all commercial concerns, he was to represent the government, at least as far as concerned the merchants of this country. Was it to be maintained seriously, that a person clothed with a character of a spy and an informer was to hold this situation? This, he believed, was the first time that any man had ventured in that House to pass a panegyric on spies and informers—persons of such infamy, that no one judge in England, or in Ireland either, would desire a jury to take cognizance of a case where their evidence was not fully and clearly corroborated. This Mr. Reynolds, it appeared, had for lucre come forward to swear (no matter whether truly or falsely) against his associates; he had turned informer, and this was sufficient to stamp him with all the infamy that attached to such characters, notwithstanding all the subtlety of the noble lord. He could not sufficiently express his abhorrence of such a character, nor his grief to hear the eulogium which the noble lord had thought proper to pronounce on it.Mr. Brougham
 then rose and moved, that the House do immediately adjourn. This motion was seconded by the hon. Mr. Bennet. Strangers were then ordered to withdraw. During our absence, the House divided three times on the question of adjournment. On the first division the numbers were. Ayes, 29; Noes, 162. On the second division. Ayes, 26; Noes 157. On the third division. Ayes, 26; Noes, 136. On our re-admission to the gallery we found the House in a committee of supply, on the Army Extraordinaries.Mr. Brougham
 thought it most disgraceful in ministers to employ such a man as Reynolds in any public situation. He trusted that the noble lord would undo what had been done on this subject; because, though Reynolds might be rewarded for his services, it certainly was not fit to hold him up as a person to be employed in a public capacity.Mr. Curwen
 seconded the motion, eulogised the clear and impressive manner in which the hon. gentleman had represented the distressed state of Newfoundland, and urged the expediency of taking prompt means to relieve it.Mr. Protheroe
 felt that the subject was worthy of the immediate attention of parliament, from the information he had received upon the subject.Mr. Hart Davis
 considered that the state of Newfoundland called for immediate parliamentary attention, he should therefore not oppose the motion.Mr. Goulburn
10251024 rose to call the attention of the House to that most important subject, the state of the Newfoundland Trade; the extent and magnitude of which ought to render it an object of deep parliamentary solicitude. In this trade were employed no less than 800 vessels, navigated from this county, and manned by more than 6,000 men; who were thus educated for the naval service. It was a fact, highly deserving the attention of the House, that all the supplies of Newfoundland were derived from this country and Ireland. The returns made to Great Britain from this colony were very great. The fish caught and cured in two years, amounted, when sold in the European markets, to two millions sterling, all remitted in specie or bills of exchange; being the only description of our trade by which a return similar in kind was made to the mother-country. He disclaimed all hostility to government, or to the board of trade, in the motion which he was about to submit to the House. But he must press upon parliament the indispensable necessity of taking some vigorous steps to relieve the colony from the state in which it was at present placed. By the last accounts it appeared, that of a population of 60,000 persons, 5,000 were out of employ, and in a state of beggary. Famine and misery staring them in the face, they were prompted to acts of violence; they ransacked and plundered the warehouses; there was no security for the
10251024Mr. M. A. Taylor
 expressed his acquiescence in the propriety of directing the attention of parliament to the distresses sustained by the inhabitants of this portion of the empire.Mr. Wilberforce
 thought, as the French were now giving to their fishery on these coasts a bounty, we could do no less. His constituents were deeply interested in the success of that colony, as much of the trade of Waterford consisted in exports to Newfoundland.Sir J. Newport
espionage,1029102810271026 rose to make a motion of which he had given notice, and expressed his regret that he should have to make it in so thin a House, and during the absence of those who ought to have been present, if they wished for an opportunity of justifying
espionage,1029102810271026Lord Folkestone
103210311030 said, that the noble lord had stated a proposition which he was not at all inclined to deny, namely, that the king had no power to dispense with the laws. This was a principle settled at the Revolution, and expressly declared by the Hill of Rights. The noble secretary of state had not done any thing on this occasion which had not been uniformly done for the custody of state prisoners. The warrant for the apprehension of the parties, specified that they should be kept in close custody; and the law ordained that they should be kept in such custody, not only previous to their trials, but also during their trials. If the noble
103210311030The Attorney General
1035 [Sir Robert Gifford] stated his concurrence in the assertion of the attorney-general, that the right of the Crown to regulate the treatment of state prisoners was not taken away by the act of 1791. The noble lord had admitted that he had found it laid down, that the gaols were the king's: would he say that this expression applied to the four walls only? It could not be so; for in many cases the prison itself was private property, and did not belong to the king. The expression must mean, that the custody of the gaols belonged to the king. His learned friend had not attempted to
1035The Solicitor-General
10391038 observed, that no suggestion had been thrown out that any of the prisoners were suffering under any cruelty or hardship; no allegation had been made that there was any abusive or novel exercise of the powers vested in the secretary of state for the management of state prisoners. The only suggestion had been, that the act of 1791 had altered the general criminal law of the country; a law that had always been recognized by the most constitutional lawyers that ever sat on the bench. He spoke with great diffidence on legal questions; but he maintained, that the warrant of the secretary of state in these cases was legal and proper, and that all these arguments, from the state of the times, did not affect the question. He apprehended the power of committing for high treason was not confined to the secretary of state; any magistrate on proper grounds might do the
10391038Lord Castlereagh
1040 said, that he came down to the House without having made up his mind on the question, and wished to know what the learned gentlemen on the other side had to say on the subject. It was now his decided conviction, that the explicit words of the act could not be set aside by the alleged prerogative. He could conceive cases where vigilance should be used in admitting persons to visit prisoners; but that was not the question. If this act conferred any right, he could not see how it could be taken away but by another act. Here, where an imperious duty was cast upon magistrates, he could not see how the secretary of state could dispense with that duty, far less prohibit it. The noble lord had referred the
1040Mr. Wynn
1041 objected to the motion for bringing up the petition, on the ground that the individual acknowledged himself guilty of perjury. It also appeared that the matter was before a court of law, and
1041Mr. Bankes
 said, that the petition appeared to contravene no rule; nor did the petitioner state, that he had committed perjury. He stated, that a fraudulent conveyance had been made to him of property, to enable him to vote; and after he had voted, an attempt was made to take that freehold from him. He considered, that if he acquiesced in that demand, he should have been guilty of perjury. Legal proceedings had been commenced against him. Some persons might contend, that this was a breach of trust on the part of the individual. But this man asked for no interference as to the courts below, but humbly prayed, that the House would take the matter into consideration, to prevent the fraudulent exercise of the elective franchise, whereby ignorant persons like himself might be involved in ruin, or in the crime of perjury.Sir F. Burdett
 considered all those perjuries at elections, and in courts of law, as emanating from the corruption of that House. There was scarcely a contested election where those who made oath that they neither received nor expected any reward for their votes, did not know at the very time the wages of their iniquity. Unless the House wished the country to be totally demoralized, they were bound to inquire into the present complaint. He would soon bring forward specific instances of this evil, and should not have so long delayed the motion of which he had given notice, but for urgent private business.Lord Cochrane
1044 said, he could discover no good reason for the rejection of the petition but the reluctance of the House to hear disagreeable truths. If the circumstances of a petition were such as did not meet the wishes of members, a thousand objections were mustered up against it; while, on the contrary, if they were agreeable, the petition was received without any inquiry, and even against the usual forms of the House. He had no knowledge of the petitioner. He was actuated purely by a sense of public duty; and seized the present occasion, not because it was one of rare occurrence, or uncommon delinquency, but because it was one example of the prevalence of a system of seat-dealing, which he thought himself obliged, as a member of parliament, to expose to the House and to the country. His objection to lord Lonsdale's conduct referred to him not as a private individual, but as a borough-monger. He objected to his sending members to that House to vote away the public money while those whose money was thus voted
1044Sir F. Burdett
 said, no one had denied that abuses might take place as to prisoners committed by the secretary of state's warrant. What then was his remedy, when such abuses were committed? The prisoner was deprived of his remedy by Habeas Corpus—by the act which was passed. If this power on the part of the magistrates was taken away, what possible remedy could he have? He might be transferred from gaol to gaol round the kingdom. It was said no abuse had been alleged. How could any abuse be alleged, if no communication with the prisoner were allowed? He hoped, if the motion were rejected, it would at least operate as a warning to the House against consenting to pass a measure which gave rise to such practices on the part of the secretary of state.Lord A. Hamilton
10371036 took upon himself to say, that there never had been a more feeble defence of any measure made by the law-officers of the Crown; and he spoke this without the slightest disrespect to his learned friends, for the; fault was not in them so much as in the case they had to defend, His learned friend had assumed, that the power of inflicting solitary confinement was part of the law of England previous to 1791. However, we were not now to inquire what the law was previous to 1791; the present question was whether in the teeth of a specific statute, calling on all magistrates to visit gaols, to make inquiries into abuses, and report the state of what they saw, the king's minister had power to issue an arbitrary mandate, and say that some of the prisoners should not be visited. Without seeing them, how could the magistrates execute the duty enjoined them by the statute; or ascertain whether or no abuses really existed? At all times this check on the abuses likely to arise out of imprisonment was highly necessary; but never was it so necessary as at the present moment. One of his learned friends had insisted, that the king's prerogative was not altered without express words; and another, that by the expression of the king's gaols, as the mere wells could not be intended, the custody of the prisoners must. He was well pleased with this latter argument; for if the gaols were the king's gaols, even in this sense, to what could the act apply but to the express restraint of the king's prerogative? His learned friend who spoke last had contended, that the act was principally directed towards the regulation of
10371036Mr. Brougham
1042 said, he was authorized by his noble friend who was mentioned in the petition, to deny that any persecution or legal measures had been promoted by him, against the petitioner. With respect to the petition, he saw no reason for its being received by the House. The petitioner stated, that he was of a very tender conscience, and could not give up the conveyance of the property which he had sworn to be his own. But, if he mistook not, this man had not long since written to him, asking him for a sum of money, and expressing his willingness, notwithstanding the tenderness of his conscience, to give up the conveyance if he received the money. He alluded to the facility with which the hon. baronet received accusations against every person in office, and stated an illustration of it, that he had frequently received letters in his office from persons complaining of grievances,
1042Mr. Long
 maintained, that if it was the practice to state such facts, it was a most inconvenient practice.Mr. Long
 rose to order.Mr. Ward
 said, that by a letter in the petitioner's own hand, so far back as February 1813, it appeared, that he had been in possession of his freehold in 1811, 18 months before the election. If that were so, the petitioner must have deceived the hon. baronet. The freehold was vested in him for life, upon paying a quit-rent. He was in arrears for 3 years. The prosecution was, to recover the arrears. With respect to himself, if the forms of the House would allow, he wished for nothing so much as to have an inquiry on the subject, in order to give the lie to the petition.Mr. R. Ward
 contended, he was perfectly in order, for this reason, that the hon. gentleman had asserted that the freehold had existed for a certain period; he, on the other hand, wished to state a fact that militated against that assertion, in order to show the necessity of inquiry. If therefore he was in order, he would proceed to state why he—Mr. Brand
 said, this was a most singular dilemma. The committee were precluded from inquiring into the case, and the House, therefore, will not inquire into it. The committee was precluded by the laws of evidence from inquiring. The House will not inquire because the committee had not inquired. He did not wish to state what had come under his observation, since the gentlemen opposite had shown so much delicacy on that point; but to say that any thing in the petition was unfounded, while inquiry was refused, was more an argument against the noble lord than against the petitioner.Mr. Brand
 said, that if Mr. Ward's statement was correct, the petition, stating a contrary fact, ought to be inquired into for that very reason. If, however, this freehold was in the petitioner's possession 18 months before the election, it was the only freehold of that kind, as he had occasion to know when that subject was before the committee, of which he was a member.Mr. Brand
 said, it did not follow, because the noble lord knew nothing of any hardships having been practised towards this man, that none had been committed towards him by some of his agents. The main question on the petition was, whether it did not contain matter which really called for inquiry? Was not the matter, if true, vitally connected with their privileges? He should certainly vote for receiving the petition.Mr. W. Smith
 said, there was a peculiarity in the petition which he thought it his duty to point out to the House. The prayer was different from the circumstances of complaint. If he went into those circumstances, he should go beyond the line of his duty, and disgust the House; but he conceived it right to say, that one part of the petition set forth a grievance as to an individual, while it concluded with praying the House to guard it6 own privileges. It was for the House to judge whether the subject was such as they could or ought to receive, or whether the grievance was merely an ejectment. On the one side, they were not to be misled by the generality of the prayer; nor on the other side to refuse what was fair and just.The Speaker
10341033 said, he had never heard a doctrine more dangerous, novel, or more destitute of all foundation, than that advanced by the learned gentleman. He thought it of little importance to inquire what was the power of the Crown, or what its prerogatives before 1791; the question now was, whether a secretary of state could, without a violation of the law, prevent the magistrates of a county from investigating the state of prisons within their jurisdiction. What ever his learned friend might throw out, it was impossible a question of greater importance could be discussed in that House than this—whether the prerogative of the
10341033Sir S. Romilly
 said, he should take the Sense of the House on the question, as he dissented from it in every possible point of view.Mr. Bankes
 had heard nothing to justify any opposition to the present motion, which, as he conceived, was founded on the strictest justice. The question at issue was simply this: whether a man shall derive the fruits of his labour, and enjoy them to the advantage of himself and family or be compelled to give them away to others? When the House considered the character, situation, and rank of those public bodies who claimed these publications, and how able they were to pay for them, he was persuaded they ought to hesitate before they rejected the motion.Sir F. Burdett
 opposed the motion, because he saw no grounds whatever which could be brought forward in its support.Mr. J. Smith
 had, for the first time, heard that literature was promoted by authors being compelled to give their publications to the universities. For these learned bodies he felt a sincere respect, but he could not help saying they were always disposed to take a great deal, while they gave but little. If the universities required these books, they should either pay for them or the public should. He did not see why these public bodies should not purchase their books as well as individuals. It was truly absurd to say that literature was promoted by their receiving these copies from poor authors.Mr. Ponsonby
 conceived that it was absolutely necessary to revise the act, in consequence of the manner in which its provisions had been executed. It was rather an extraordinary circumstance, that, with the exception of two of the universities, who refused novels and music, the learned bodies, to whom the law gave these copies, took them of every description of work that was published. It was not just, that by this means a power should be given to send expensive publications into the market in competition with the publisher. It would be much better to adjudge to the universities a pecuniary compensation which might be used for the advancement of learning.Mr. Wynn
1070 was reprobating the employment of spies as allies of government in the maintenance of social order. While such instruments were made use of, it was impossible that any man's property or persons could be safe; and the misdeeds of one of these miscreants, whose conduct bad lately been brought to light, proved, but too plainly, the truth of what he asserted. Under these circumstances, and hearing that the noble lord had attempted to defend the conduct of such a man as Thomas Reynolds, of Welbeck-street, he should be glad to know of ministers whether those spies had their authority for making use of the names of individuals? A transaction of this sort had occurred, in regard to which the state of the times rendered it necessary for him to vindicate his own character, however contemptible and unworthy of notice the individuals might otherwise be. It did appear then, that Oliver, the fellow of Reynolds, had gone about the country introducing himself "with sir F. Burdett's compliments." After what had already come out, it was impossible to say how far this man might be authorized by, or associated with, government. If so, the infamy of such transactions was mutual on the employer and the employed; or rather the government that could employ such agents, the scourge, and pest of society, was even more culpable than the wretched agents themselves; and if "Universal justice ruled the ball," the noble lord would be tried with his creatures, Castle and Oliver, for their conspiracies against the subjects
1070Sir F. Burdett
 said, that if any improper use had been made of the hon. baronet's name, it was owing, not as the hon. baronet would insinuate, to any directions on the part of his majesty's government, but, in all probability to causes over which the hon. baronet himself had greater control. At a proper period, he should be perfectly prepared to justify the part taken by government on this subject. If the hon. baronet's name had been mixed up with any of the proceedings of the individuals to whom he had alluded, it was himself that he had to thank for it, and not his majesty's government.Lord Castlereagh
1077, in rising to call the attention of the House to the necessity of an inquiry into the state of Ireland, lamented the evident indifference that appeared to prevail among the members towards that subject, by the very thin attendance then present. His sole wish was to compel ministers to give some pledge, that during the ensuing prorogation, they would cause a revision of the state of that interesting portion of the empire. Since the Union sixteen years had elapsed, and Ireland had a right to have its affairs fully and impartially examined. He had early in the session drawn the attention of the House to the state of the finances of that country, but this consideration was waived by a motion for the previous question, on the pretence that it came more immediately within the purview of the finance committee. The report of that committee had been brought in, and fully confirmed the distressing statement he had made of the revenues of Ireland. This should be inquired into, and the House might be assured, that if it were not fairly taken up, Ireland would force herself on their attention.
1077Sir J. New port
 considered, that his right hon. friend had as much knowledge of the act of queen Anne, as the hon. gentleman, but certainly the provisions of the last bill rendered it necessary to be amended, as it imposed a greater burthen on authors, than they ought to bear. It certainly was not any encouragement to learning, to impose on poor men the task of supplying the universities with books, and thereby unnecessarily sparing the funds of those rich and well endowed bodies.Mr. Brougham
 thought the right hon. gentleman had not read the act of queen Anne, which expressly states that the provisions of that act were for the encouragement of literature. Besides, he had not recollected the advantages which authors obtained by this act in the extension of their copyrights. It was not fair, as he presumed, to call this a tax on authors.Mr. Croker
1076v1075v1074v1073profertv.in favorem ecclesiœ,v1072prima faciePrima facie1071 said:—The question I have to submit to the House is of the utmost importance, not only as it relates to property, but in the influence it is likely to have in preventing vexatious and expensive litigations, highly injurious to public morals, as well as to the temporal interests of the clergy. I am anxious, in the outset, explicitly to disclaim all intention of proposing any thing which can lessen the security of the property of the church or lay proprietor of tithes. Tithes, like all other descriptions of property, ought to be held sacred. If I succeed in showing that the law of evidence for substantiating a title to tithes is at variance with itself, and in direct opposition to every principle as applicable to all other kinds of property,—that the powers with which the church is armed are unnecessary for the protection of its own property, and inconsistent with the rights of others; I shall, I trust have made out a case calling for legislative interference. Fortunately, this may be accomplished without the application of any new principle; all that is requisite to be done is, to make the law applicable to property analogous to all descriptions of tithes. No statute of limitation exists against the claims of the
1076v1075v1074v1073profertv.in favorem ecclesiœ,v1072prima faciePrima facie1071Mr. Curwen
 contended, that such a bill would be most valuable, in order to settle the titles to church property, and put them on the best foundation.Mr. Lockhart
 opposed the motion, observing, that the contribution of eleven copies was not so heavy a tax as by some it was supposed to be, as, in most cases, it was little more than the expense of paper and printing.Mr. Finlay
 contended, that if the House should consent to go into the inquiry, it would kindle the animosities subsisting between the two parties in Ireland. He moved as an amendment that the other orders of the day be now read.Sir G. Hill
, in dissenting from the motion, did not mean to deny that many grievances existed in Ireland, which ought to be redressed; but it implied a want of confidence in the government, which he, for one, did not feel.Sir N. Colthurst
1067s*l106610651064, in rising, pursuant to his notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the Copy Right Act passed in the filth George 3rd, said, that he was aware that in this attempt he had a powerful and
1067s*l106610651064Sir Egerton Brydges
 said, it was no doubt desirous that public institutions should be furnished with books, but it ought to be done at the public expense, and not at that of the poor author. The tax thus imposed on authors was founded on a barbarous principle, and deserved the reprobation of the House.Sir S. Romilly
 supported the bill, although he feared it was too late in the session to give an opportunity sufficiently to discuss so important a subject. He confirmed all the statements of the hon. mover with respect to the inconveniences of the present law, and particularly the circumstance that long possession, which strengthened all other property, weakened church property; since, instead of a prescriptive title being obtained in 60 years, it was necessary to go back 600 years, in order to establish a claim.Sir S. Romilly
 would not resist the motion for the introduction of the bill, but although he coincided in much of what had fallen from the hon. gentleman, he should be sorry that it should go forth to the public, that he could ultimately agree to the great innovation which the bill proposed to make.Sir W. Scott
 said, the real question before the House was, whether they would consent to a repeal of the law passed in 1814. He could never allow it to be said, that an act like the present, which went to promote the interests of learning, was founded on a barbarous principle.Lord Palmerston
1079 said, he knew neither the case nor the name of the person whose case was now alluded to. But it did not seem that this was the proper time to discuss that case, for it had no
1079The Attorney-General
 said, that when the House considered that a man had been three times tried, and three times imprisoned for the same offence, it did seem more natural that some person should call the attention of the House to the subject, than that ministers should not consider it within the scope of their duty to explain circumstances so revolting to every proper feeling. Their silence created a suspicion as to the accuracy of the information they had received from Scotland. Every person recollected the oath that had been read in that House on a former occasion. He was astonished that ministers had given no answer to the question of his noble friend.Mr. Abercrombie
1080 allowed that if there had been any impropriety in the proceeding alluded to, it might be a fit subject, at some future period, for the attention of parliament; but nothing could be so little productive of public utility as that collateral mode of attacking the conduct of a court of law, and of demanding an explanation which those who asked it must be aware ministers could not be prepared to give. If there was any one thing of which, the House ought to be jealous, it was of any interference on the part of ministers with the courts of law. He considered the questions put as coming more from political hostility than from any real complaint against the Scotch judicature. He was
1080Lord Castlereagh
1087 said, he felt considerable difficulty on the present occasion. It was perfectly true that his noble friend did not make any specific proposition in the committee, but he certainly stated generally, that though he did not object to any particular part of the report, yet he considered the whole as calculated to make an impression which the evidence did not justify. He (Mr. P.) would further observe, that the report did not, perhaps, contain all that could be said upon the subject, and it was understood that whatever particular opinions the members of the committee might entertain with regard to the practical conclusions drawn from it, they would be at perfect liberty to state them in that House. The House should recollect, that the committee in no instance affirmed any thing of their own knowledge. They stated only such matters as they were enabled to state according to the evidence laid before them. No member, indeed, (except those who, from their official situation, might have particular intelligence upon certain points), could know any thing
1087Mr. Ponsonby
 said, that the committee concurred unanimously in the existence of the danger, but disagreed about the practical result of their inquiry. It was therefore, determined, that every member should reserve his own opinion on; that latter point till the question came to be discussed in the House.Lord Castlereagh
 protested against such incidental discussions.Lord Castlereagh
 said, he was sure there was nothing farther from the thoughts of persons on his side of the House than to arraign the Scottish judicature. But the lord advocate was not the Scottish judicature—he was not a court of justice. He was only the prosecuting officer on the part of the Crown. He would say it did appear extraordinary that the same man should be tried three times. In England such a proceeding would be called illegal and oppressive.Mr. Ponsonby
 argued, that a charge against the lord advocate, coupled with an admission that he had acted according to the Scotch law, was, in fact, an arraignment of the whole system of Scotch judicature. If what had been done was legal it was to no purpose to arraign the conduct of the officer concerned: but the proper course would be to propose a remedy for such a law. Whether the lord advocate had gone beyond the discretion vested in him, this was not the time to inquire; but his noble friend had said with reason, that the effect of what had been stated was, to create an unjust impression against the law officer in question, not for exercising the duties of his office, but as having exercised them improperly. When it had been said, that an individual had been three times imprisoned for the same offence, it was impossible not to wish to live under a different state of laws, but the law of Scotland was so, and the evil could only be remedied by altering that law. If imputations were still held out that the law officer had been guilty of improper conduct, all he asked was, that notice should be given of any charge, in order that the party might come prepared to answer it.Mr. Canning
 thought that the right hon. gentleman himself had expressly arraigned the judicature of Scotland, in saying, that it was impossible not to wish to avoid living under such a law, and that a change in it ought to be made. But the gentlemen on that side of the House had complained not so much of the law as of the discretion exercised by the lord advocate; and they felt dissatisfied at no answer having been given.Lord Folkestone
 was desirous to have the Report of the Select Committee produced, as they had now terminated their labours. Tile early production of it would be a great convenience, particularly as it was to be followed up by the suspension of the Habeas Corpus. It was extraordinary that any member should keep such a report in his pocket. The person whom he alluded to was not then present in his place, but he hoped the House would find a remedy for his absence. He would therefore move, that lord Milton, have leave to report from the select committee.Lord Folkestone
1082 said, he understood the report would be presented in the course of the evening. It was not intended to propose any immediate delibera-
1082Lord Castlereagh
 felt happy that the report was soon to be produced. He believed that the motion of the noble lord might be amended, and would move therefore as an amendment, "That the right hon. Charles Bathurst do forthwith attend this House in his place."Mr. Ponsonby
 contended, that a member could not be ordered to attend forthwith, but ought to be desired to appear at a certain time.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, when high words passed some time since between two members, on their withdrawing, it was ordered that both attend forthwith.Mr. Wynn
 said, he would move as an amendment, that the House do now resolve itself into a committee of ways and means.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1098109710961095109410931092109110901089, to whom the several papers which were presented (sealed up) to the House, by lord viscount Castlereagh, on the 5th day of this instant June, by command of his royal highness the Prince Regent, were referred, and who were directed to examine the matters thereof, and report the same, as they should appear to them, to the House; —have, pursuant to the order of the
1098109710961095109410931092109110901089THE COMMITTEE OF SECRECY
dsl1109lll1108lll.;l.:1107sllllllll1106lllll22,141,537
22,141,53712,600,000
12,600,0009,000,000Exchequer bills
9,000,000Exchequer bills3,600,000Irish treasury bills
3,600,000Irish treasury bills9,541,537
9,541,5371,500,000Arrears of property tax received or to be received between the fifth of April, 1817, and 5th
April 1818
1,500,000Arrears of property tax received or to be received between the fifth of April, 1817, and 5th
April 1818400,000Old stores
400,000Old stores250,000200,000—Lottery
250,000200,000—Lottery
22,141,537
22,141,53712,600,000
12,600,0009,000,000Exchequer bills
9,000,000Exchequer bills3,600,000Irish treasury bills
3,600,000Irish treasury bills9,541,537
9,541,5371,500,000Arrears of property tax received or to be received between the fifth of April, 1817, and 5th
April 1818
1,500,000Arrears of property tax received or to be received between the fifth of April, 1817, and 5th
April 1818400,000Old stores
400,000Old stores250,000200,000—Lottery
250,000200,000—Lottery11051,225,978Money remaining at the disposal of parliament of the consolidated fund at April 5,1817
1,225,978Money remaining at the disposal of parliament of the consolidated fund at April 5,18171,300,0003,500,000—Excise Duties continued (after satisfying the grant thereon for the year
1816)
1,300,0003,500,000—Excise Duties continued (after satisfying the grant thereon for the year
1816)1,865,559
1,865,5591,849,810Ways and Means 1816
1,849,810Ways and Means 181615,749Disposable 1815
15,749Disposable 1815£3,000,000£3,000,000—Annual Duties-
£3,000,000£3,000,000—Annual Duties-WAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.
1,225,978Money remaining at the disposal of parliament of the consolidated fund at April 5,1817
1,225,978Money remaining at the disposal of parliament of the consolidated fund at April 5,18171,300,0003,500,000—Excise Duties continued (after satisfying the grant thereon for the year
1816)
1,300,0003,500,000—Excise Duties continued (after satisfying the grant thereon for the year
1816)1,865,559
1,865,5591,849,810Ways and Means 1816
1,849,810Ways and Means 181615,749Disposable 1815
15,749Disposable 1815£3,000,000£3,000,000—Annual Duties-
£3,000,000£3,000,000—Annual Duties-WAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.llll.;llllllll1104llllllll22,136,508
22,136,5084,136,508
4,136,5081,660,000Towards reduction of navy and transport debt
1,660,000Towards reduction of navy and transport debt246,508To make good the permanent charges of Ireland to Jan. 5,1817
246,508To make good the permanent charges of Ireland to Jan. 5,1817330,000Sinking fund on ditto
330,000Sinking fund on ditto1,900,000
1,900,000£.Interest on exchequer bills
£.Interest on exchequer bills
22,136,508
22,136,5084,136,508
4,136,5081,660,000Towards reduction of navy and transport debt
1,660,000Towards reduction of navy and transport debt246,508To make good the permanent charges of Ireland to Jan. 5,1817
246,508To make good the permanent charges of Ireland to Jan. 5,1817330,000Sinking fund on ditto
330,000Sinking fund on ditto1,900,000
1,900,000£.Interest on exchequer bills
£.Interest on exchequer bills110318,001,300Total supply for the service of the year 1817
18,001,300Total supply for the service of the year 18171,700,000Miscellaneous
1,700,000Miscellaneous1,221,300Ordnance
1,221,300Ordnance6,000,000Navy (exclusive of grant for the reduction of navy debt)
6,000,000Navy (exclusive of grant for the reduction of navy debt)9,080,000
9,080,000£:lArmy (including 1,500,000l
£:lArmy (including 1,500,000lSUPPLIESSUPPLIES
SUPPLIESSUPPLIES
18,001,300Total supply for the service of the year 1817
18,001,300Total supply for the service of the year 18171,700,000Miscellaneous
1,700,000Miscellaneous1,221,300Ordnance
1,221,300Ordnance6,000,000Navy (exclusive of grant for the reduction of navy debt)
6,000,000Navy (exclusive of grant for the reduction of navy debt)9,080,000
9,080,000£:lArmy (including 1,500,000l
£:lArmy (including 1,500,000lSUPPLIESSUPPLIES
SUPPLIESSUPPLIESlllllllllll1102llllllllllllllllllll1101***11001099 rose. He said, that much as he regretted to fatigue the House with that which he had to bring forward, at a period when, from the lateness of the hour, it might be inconvenient to them to give it that attention
dsl1109lll1108lll.;l.:1107sllllllll1106lllll22,141,537
22,141,53712,600,000
12,600,0009,000,000Exchequer bills
9,000,000Exchequer bills3,600,000Irish treasury bills
3,600,000Irish treasury bills9,541,537
9,541,5371,500,000Arrears of property tax received or to be received between the fifth of April, 1817, and 5th
April 1818
1,500,000Arrears of property tax received or to be received between the fifth of April, 1817, and 5th
April 1818400,000Old stores
400,000Old stores250,000200,000—Lottery
250,000200,000—Lottery
22,141,537
22,141,53712,600,000
12,600,0009,000,000Exchequer bills
9,000,000Exchequer bills3,600,000Irish treasury bills
3,600,000Irish treasury bills9,541,537
9,541,5371,500,000Arrears of property tax received or to be received between the fifth of April, 1817, and 5th
April 1818
1,500,000Arrears of property tax received or to be received between the fifth of April, 1817, and 5th
April 1818400,000Old stores
400,000Old stores250,000200,000—Lottery
250,000200,000—Lottery11051,225,978Money remaining at the disposal of parliament of the consolidated fund at April 5,1817
1,225,978Money remaining at the disposal of parliament of the consolidated fund at April 5,18171,300,0003,500,000—Excise Duties continued (after satisfying the grant thereon for the year
1816)
1,300,0003,500,000—Excise Duties continued (after satisfying the grant thereon for the year
1816)1,865,559
1,865,5591,849,810Ways and Means 1816
1,849,810Ways and Means 181615,749Disposable 1815
15,749Disposable 1815£3,000,000£3,000,000—Annual Duties-
£3,000,000£3,000,000—Annual Duties-WAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.
1,225,978Money remaining at the disposal of parliament of the consolidated fund at April 5,1817
1,225,978Money remaining at the disposal of parliament of the consolidated fund at April 5,18171,300,0003,500,000—Excise Duties continued (after satisfying the grant thereon for the year
1816)
1,300,0003,500,000—Excise Duties continued (after satisfying the grant thereon for the year
1816)1,865,559
1,865,5591,849,810Ways and Means 1816
1,849,810Ways and Means 181615,749Disposable 1815
15,749Disposable 1815£3,000,000£3,000,000—Annual Duties-
£3,000,000£3,000,000—Annual Duties-WAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.llll.;llllllll1104llllllll22,136,508
22,136,5084,136,508
4,136,5081,660,000Towards reduction of navy and transport debt
1,660,000Towards reduction of navy and transport debt246,508To make good the permanent charges of Ireland to Jan. 5,1817
246,508To make good the permanent charges of Ireland to Jan. 5,1817330,000Sinking fund on ditto
330,000Sinking fund on ditto1,900,000
1,900,000£.Interest on exchequer bills
£.Interest on exchequer bills
22,136,508
22,136,5084,136,508
4,136,5081,660,000Towards reduction of navy and transport debt
1,660,000Towards reduction of navy and transport debt246,508To make good the permanent charges of Ireland to Jan. 5,1817
246,508To make good the permanent charges of Ireland to Jan. 5,1817330,000Sinking fund on ditto
330,000Sinking fund on ditto1,900,000
1,900,000£.Interest on exchequer bills
£.Interest on exchequer bills110318,001,300Total supply for the service of the year 1817
18,001,300Total supply for the service of the year 18171,700,000Miscellaneous
1,700,000Miscellaneous1,221,300Ordnance
1,221,300Ordnance6,000,000Navy (exclusive of grant for the reduction of navy debt)
6,000,000Navy (exclusive of grant for the reduction of navy debt)9,080,000
9,080,000£:lArmy (including 1,500,000l
£:lArmy (including 1,500,000lSUPPLIESSUPPLIES
SUPPLIESSUPPLIES
18,001,300Total supply for the service of the year 1817
18,001,300Total supply for the service of the year 18171,700,000Miscellaneous
1,700,000Miscellaneous1,221,300Ordnance
1,221,300Ordnance6,000,000Navy (exclusive of grant for the reduction of navy debt)
6,000,000Navy (exclusive of grant for the reduction of navy debt)9,080,000
9,080,000£:lArmy (including 1,500,000l
£:lArmy (including 1,500,000lSUPPLIESSUPPLIES
SUPPLIESSUPPLIESlllllllllll1102llllllllllllllllllll1101***11001099The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 firmly believed, that there was not the slightest ground for the suspension in Scotland, and that it was more especially unsafe to extend the power of the Crown in that quarter, after the specimen that had been exhibited in the case of Mackinlay. That man had been arrested, confined, dragged before a tribunal, and the proceedings against him then dropped. The same course had been a second time repeated, and a second time the indictment had been withdrawn. The law-officer of the Crown had determined a third time to prosecute this man, and the proceedings were still pending.Lord A. Hamilton
1083 having entered the House the chancellor of the exchequer and Mr. Ponsonby withdrew their motions. Mr. Bathurst then presented the Report of the Secret Committee, which was read
1083Mr. Bathurst
 was surprised that the noble lord should now state objections to the Report, as, excepting the concluding passage, it certainly had the approbation of every member of the committee.Mr. Bathurst
1088 agreed that the report should be printed: the more it was known, the more would its conclusion be repro-
1088Mr. Brougham
 was surprised that ministers had given no answer to an allegation that a man had been put three times on his defence. He knew that by the Scotch law, most unhappily for Scotland, a party might be tried a thousand times for the same offence, if the law-officers of the Crown thought it advisable. The House had been informed, that the first indictment against this unfortunate man had been quashed by the Court: there had been one trial, one detention in prison, one solitary confinement, one period of painful suspense; then came a second charge, a second imprisonment, a second period of suspense, a second judgment, and a second indictment quashed. The Crown officers, not satisfied with this, were now preparing a third torture for this unfortunate man. It was impossible to say what would be the decision of the Court, but no lawyer who read the indictment could have any doubt as to its inefficacy.Mr. Brougham
 did not mean to say that there was any thing illegal in the proceedings in the case alluded to.Mr. Brougham
 explained. Whenever be stated facts he had no objection that the learned gentleman should give those facts what circulation he pleased, provided it were without misrepresentation. But he was not sure that the learned gentleman had not ingenuity either to misunderstand his expressions and to view them in a very different light, or to make them bear a meaning which he never meant to attach to them. He had stated, that whenever any thing was made to bear a stronger sense than any other person could approve of, recourse was had to the evidence, and the expressions were mutually accommodated to that evidence. There was concession, but it was upon the evidence.Lord Lascelles
1086 had heard the noble lord's speech with some surprise, and he would add regret. When the committee broke up that morning, neither he, nor any other member with whom he had conversed, had the most distant idea that the noble lord disagreed with any part of the report. He had heard in debate that men might blind themselves to alarms, and that the noble lord was not so much alarmed as the rest of the committee. The noble lord had it in his power to have conveyed that impression, and to have stated his dif-
1086Lord Lascelles
 felt disgusted and disappointed, as did the whole Scotch nation, that an individual should be confined to a solitary prison, and tried over and over again, merely because the lord advocate was unable to draw an indictment. He complained that the legal affairs of that country were placed in such hands that it was impossible such circumstances should not frequently recur. An indictment had been three times quashed, and might, perhaps, meet with the same fate a fourth time. Was it to be endured that his majesty's ministers should allow the law to be in the hands of a person who could not draw an indictment? while the consequence might be, that, after all, the man would escape, whether innocent or guilty. The law of Scotland was right enough in itself-—it allowed an indictment to be repeatedly amended in point of form and before trial; but who ever heard of an indictment being preferred three times for the same offence, after the case had been argued? On these grounds he thought the thanks of the House were due to the noble lord who had brought the subject before the House.Mr. Finlay
 said, if the proceedings in the case alluded to were allowed to be legal, the question was whether the House was now to be called upon to alter the law of Scotland? There was not the least connexion between the case of the man alluded to, and the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act.Mr. W. Dundas
 had distinctly stated, that he could not agree in the recommendation at the conclusion of the report, as he was determined to go into the House unpledged to any measure, and he should be happy if his hon. friends would convince him that such a measure was unnecessary.Mr. Lamb
 said, he was unfortunately prevented, during the latter part of the sittings of the committee from attending them, but he saw sufficient while he was present, from the nature of the evidence aid before them, and the extent of the dangers, to convince him, that the report, if considered as a preparatory step towards the farther suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, did not fairly grow out of the evidence produced.Sir A. Piggott
 said, that although the person in question was only tried for felony, yet he was always committed on a charge of treason.Sir S. Romilly
 presented a petition from Kingston-upon-Hull, against the farther Suspension of the Habeas Corpus. The petitioners expressed their opinion, that the existing laws were amply sufficient for the purposes of putting down any disaffection that might exist; and prayed the House, that, instead of passing an act to that effect, they would employ the remainder of the session in correcting public abuses and lessening public expenditure.—The petition was then read.1078Sir
1078
 maintained, that there was a strong connexion between the case mentioned and the suspension. The question on the suspension was, whether ministers should be entrusted with certain powers, and the question in this case was, how ministers had exercised the powers committed to them?Sir J. Newport
 thought the noble lord's protest was one of the most extraordinary he had ever heard. The noble lord I seemed to have abdicated the superintendence of his majesty's ministers over the law officers of the Crown.Lord Milton
10851084 observed, that it appeared to him, that the report, in some respects, was so drawn up, as to give too much the appearance of having been wholly agreed to by all the committee. He thought it stated many circumstances too strongly as to Manchester. He doubted not that many of the leaders were very mischievous and revolutionary; but a meeting of even 12,000 persons at Manchester and Salford, which contained a population of 100,000, surrounded by a populous neighbourhood, could not be called a very general meeting of the people of that part of the country. Too much importance was given to the proceedings. It had been said that the people marched in files to the meeting at Manchester, as if they were all drilled and disciplined; but that was not the case: after all, only about 50 of them reached Ashbourne. Several hundreds, it was said, passed through Leeds; but he had no evidence of that. The poor deluded manufacturers had been suffering under the severest distress that was ever perhaps known in this country. He could not exactly make out insurrection and treason in the idea of coming in a body to petition the throne. The majority of the committee seemed unwilling to put down in the report those facts and observations which had a tendency to allay the alarms of the country. He was convinced that, in being themselves actuated by these alarms, they were as sincere as he was in entertaining a contrary opinion. He thought it his duty to mention another circumstance that occurred in the committee. The utmost anxiety was shown, after the publication of the report of the Lords committee, to counteract the effect of a paragraph in that report, relative to the conduct of the agents of government, in leading to the formation of designs which they were employed only to detect. That paragraph, which had excited so much notice in the country, had not gone far enough in describing this species of mischievous conduct, or characterising those who engaged in it. He knew that much of the disturbances in Derbyshire and Yorkshire had been produced by the arts of government emissaries. When he expressed this conviction, he did not mean to insinuate that ministers were aware of what their agents were doing; far less that they recommended to them such a course of conduct, or approved of their transac-
10851084Lord Milton
 said, it was his wish that the report should be read when the House was full, and not at twelve or one in the morning, when most of the members had gone away. He was acquainted with the conclusion of the report, and it therefore struck him to be desirable that other members should know it. He must confess, that in the course of the proceedings of the committee there appeared on the part of some, he would not say many of the members, a disposition to enlarge on the dangers of the country. He could not help thinking that the report contained matter that might have been expressed more in coincidence with the evidence; but on the other hand, he thought there were some things that ought to have been stated, but which were not in the report. It struck him that many members of the committee seemed to have an opinion that there was nothing but disorganization in the country, and attempts to produce a revolution. To him, however, the causes that led to the present situation of the country appeared very different. He considered the disaffection to be nothing but the system of the Luddites five years ago, enlarged and grown more dangerous. Then, however, a remedy was applied that counteracted the evil, and it was in his opinion, therefore, rather inconsistent, that the same measures should not be adopted now.Lord Milton
 had reluctance in acceding to the measure, but he was convinced it was necessary, and had no fears that the powers it convoyed would be misused by the noble lord in whom they would be invested. They had no reason to doubt the regard of that noble lord for the constitution, who, when he sat in the chair of that House, had shown so much knowledge of the constitution, and so strong an attachment to its principles. He was satisfied that no other remedy could he applied to the existing situation of the country; and the circumstance of parliament being about to rise was, in his opinion, an additional reason for passing the bill, as the country ought not to be left unprotected during the prorogation. It was said, the conspirators were not dangerous, because there were no persons of consequence among them. It appeared to him, however, that they were the more dangerous on that very account. When persons of distinction are engaged in plots, if the heads be seized the whole business is over: but such was not the case with insurrections of the present description; for one head was no sooner seized than another Hydra started up. A most dangerous spirit had gone abroad, and he believed the well-disposed part of the country would be sorry to see parliament separate without passing the bill.Mr. Bankes
 supported the motion. The question at present was, first, whether there was danger existing in the country, and then whether the remedy proposed were applicable and sufficient? In 1812, a danger something similar to the present existed, but it was without the peculiar character of having a great physical force applied to political purposes.Mr. Courtenay
1113111211111110 said, that no individual could feel more deeply than he did the importance of the measure which he considered it to be his duty to recommend to the House. He was sensible of the heavy responsibility which must fall on those who called for it, and that on all hands it must be admitted to be a serious encroachment on the rights of the subject, during the time for which it was to be continued. It then became a question, whether the internal state of the country was such as to call for so strong a measure,—whether the ordinary laws were sufficient—or whether if these were not sufficient, other measures less strong than the Suspension of the Habeas Corpus, ought not to be resorted to? In arguing on this measure, he protested at the outset against any inference being drawn, that ministers, in forming their judgment on it, were subject to any undue bias in its favour. Nothing but a conviction, that for the safety of the loyal and the peaceable, and for the preservation of the constitution itself, they were necessary, could, he was certain, have made them consent to take upon themselves the arduous responsibility which attached to a measure like that now under the consideration of the House. He hoped their past conduct was such, as to prove they would not have advised the continuance of the act, if they were not satisfied, that of all the measures that could be resorted to, this would be the most effectual, and prove least injurious to the people at large. He wished
1113111211111110Lord Castlereagh
11181117111611151114 seized the first opportunity to state facts which, as a member of the committee, had come to his knowledge, and which he thought ought to induce the House not to adopt a measure as vicious in its principle as it must be mischievous in its effects. He would begin with the conduct and transaction of an individual whose character had become notorious to the country. If he were to state that Mr. Oliver had excited the disaffection that prevailed, that he had formed the plots and arranged the insurrections which were described in the report, and that no design to disturb the peace of the country had been entered into till he left London to go to the agitated districts, he should be stating what was not consistent with fact, and what he did not believe. He believed that insurrectionary movements were contemplated before this individual began his labours, or received his commission, and that he had predecessors
11181117111611151114Mr. Ponsonby
 thought there was no other remedy for the disturbance to which the right hon. gentleman had alluded but the measure which he had opposed. The magistrates had endeavoured without success, to put down these associations by the ordinary powers of the law. The evil had fixed its roots so deep, that as long as there was free agency allowed to the leaders of these associations, it was not in the power of man to put them down. The usual powers of the law were useless; there was but one opinion on this subject in the part of the country to which he belonged. If any gentleman knew a better remedy than the present, let him propose it, and the magistrates would willingly adopt it. With respect to Oliver, there had been great misrepresentations. His character stood higher than that of the class of men to which he was generally described as belonging. Against his moral character there was no imputation. Without such agents the designs of the disaffected could not be counteracted. Whatever might have been the original object of the Hampden clubs, he did not scruple to say, that they had become the pest and bane of society.Mr. Leigh Keck
1119 observed, that the existence of considerable danger was admitted on all sides; and the only question for discussion was, whether this bill would prove a successful remedy for the evil. He was sorry to say, he had never heard a less convincing speech than that of the hon. gentleman. It was made up of statements which rested entirely on his own assertion, or of reasonings which directly controverted those statements. The hon. gentleman had stated his conviction that nothing could be proved against the moral character of Oliver. But what did this morality consist in? In introducing himself to the confidence of persons resident in the country, by flattering their prejudices, instigating their zeal, and inflaming them to acts of sedition; by assuring them that 75,000 men in London waited for no other inducement to insurrection, than the indication of the same spirit in other parts of the country. Such was the morality of the man employed by his majesty's ministers to sound the dispositions of the
1119Mr. Abercrombie
1141He lost the merit of his former praise.""Turn'd a tyrant in his latter days,this1140in extensor1139à priori,1138 said, however much gentlemen might differ as to the conclusion to be come to, there was a pretty general agreement as to the grounds on which the subject was to be argued. There were three distinct questions for decision:— First, Was there danger in the state? Secondly, Were the ordinary laws sufficient for its suppression? and if not— Thirdly, Was the specific measure proposed one which supplied the deficiency of the ordinary laws, and was directly applicable to the danger? If any one of these questions could be answered in the negative, he was perfectly willing to admit that the House ought not to consent to the third reading of the bill; but if, as in his conscience he believed, they must all be answered in the affirmative, then could not the House discharge its duty to the country, except by sanctioning the measure with the least possible delay. The hon. and learned gentleman had undervalued that danger to such a degree, as to make it appear ridiculous that any remedy should be sought for. Up to the period of the debate at which the hon. and learned gen-
1141He lost the merit of his former praise.""Turn'd a tyrant in his latter days,this1140in extensor1139à priori,1138Mr. Canning
1143lettres-de-cachet;A dislike to all changes of place—The symptom a dulness that's fix'd in the head,1142 confessed that there had been a smile on his countenance at one part of the right hon. gentleman's speech, and that it did strike him as extraordinary, even, after the reconciliation that had taken place, to hear the right hon. gentleman stand up for the talents of that poor doctor who had so long been the butt of his most bitter and unsparing ridicule [loud cries of Hear!]: a creature, the diagnosis of whose characteristic infirmity had so repeatedly amused the right hon. gentleman—
1143lettres-de-cachet;A dislike to all changes of place—The symptom a dulness that's fix'd in the head,1142Lord Folkestone
1120 was of opinion, that the noble lord, in looking at the extent of the evil, had forgotten the remedy already in his hands. Whilst he magnified the danger he diminished the strength of those laws which were already provided against it. The plans of insurrection which had been disclosed evidently proceeded on no certain knowledge or just calculation of
1120Mr. Barclay
11371136lettres de cachet1135s.;l.1134 said, the question simply was, had the House evidence to prove that this measure was absolutely necessary? Upon that question he said, no. He did not mean to impeach the integrity of the committee, but men might be mistaken, and it was of the nature of alarm to be infectious. By the second report it was asserted, that the treasonable practices were confined to the country, while the first had insisted that the whole centered in the metropolis—a contradiction of no small importance, because there was a wide difference between an organized plan in the heart of the empire and the seat of government, and a scattered and uncombined discontent in distant parts of the country. It was not a little curious to contrast what was inserted in the first report as fact, and as reason for unlimited; alarm, and what had now come out to be the truth on the recent trial. The report talked of numerous leaders and of large funds, and of one individual in particular, Thistlewood, as having pecuniary resources, not only for providing arms, am-
11371136lettres de cachet1135s.;l.1134Mr. Brougham
1133 said, he would pass by entirely the objection against this measure, that it would be an encroachment on the constitution, because he was satisfied that no lover of his country, no Englishman, could tolerate such a measure without a conviction of its adequate necessity. Parliament having reserved to itself the power of re-considering the state of the country before its separation, the question turned upon the nature and extent of the danger that existed. It certainly appeared to him, that there was a systematic design to corrupt the lower classes of the people, particularly in the manufacturing districts, which comprised the most efficient part of our population. If Luddism took a favourable turn, it was capable of being converted to the worst of purposes. The peculiar danger which he saw was in the mind and temper and disposition of the people. Who could contemplate the fact of great bodies of people turning their attention to arms and ammunition, without feeling the necessity of adopting precaution? Slight as this mischief might appear to some, it was of a character to associate to itself greater force, and it would work even into higher classes of the community. He was aware
1133Mr. Elliot
11221121 declared, that he should always feel a strong reluctance to sacrifice so important a privilege as that which it was now proposed to suspend; and if he consented on this occasion to invest ministers with such a power, it was because he concurred with them that they had the best means of judging that it was necessary to the safety of the country. He thought there was in the late disturbances all over the country much more of a political character than had been represented by a right hon. gentleman. If the leaders were without property, they were not without great natural energy. He could readily conceive how the lower orders, that valuable portion of the community whose labour was so essential to the social system under which we live, might be tempted by the delusive and wicked principles instilled into their minds, to direct their strength to the destruction of the government, and to the overthrow of every civil and religious establishment. It did not appear, that Oliver had asserted, when he mentioned in round numbers the force of the disaffected in London, that there existed any general committee, or that there was any precise calculation formed upon that subject; but surely nobody would deny that there was a great deal of disaffection in London,
11221121Mr. Wilberforce
11291128112711261125certioraries11241123 rose at the same time with Mr. Courtenay, and, having been called to by the Speaker, he said, that he hoped that he should not deprive the House long of the pleasure of hearing his learned friend, but, having taken some part in opposing the former bill, he was unwilling to give a silent vote upon this. The noble lord had said, that all who voted for this measure in the early part of the session, must necessarily concur in it now; and that even those who were hostile to it
11291128112711261125certioraries11241123Sir S. Romilly
 observed, that no one had yet told the House how this measure was to remedy the evil which was said to exist. The arguments which had been adduced were of no greater weight than when this measure was first recommended to the House; and as he thought the danger still less at this moment, he should certainly vote against the bill.Sir J. Newport
 said, that the speech of the hon. gentleman though very eloquent, had failed in convincing him of the necessity of the present measure. He thought that ministers had entirely failed in making out such a case as to justify the necessity of granting those powers. Even if all that the reports of the committees contained were allowed to be true, a sufficient case had not been made out. But when it was considered how very much the facts alleged in the reports had been mistaken, the case against this bill was much stronger. In the first report it was said, that the disaffected in the metropolis had assumed the French revolutionary emblems, but it had been proved that this was not the case; but on the contrary, that the flags and cockade of the rioters were not of the French colours, but green, white, and red, adopted from some absurd notions about nature, truth, and justice. He trusted that many of those who had supported this bill in the early period of the session, would vote against it now, for there was a wide difference between intrusting the executive with such extraordinary powers during the session of parliament, and continuing those powers during its prorogation. To talk of confidence in government was no argument when the question was the safeguard of the constitution. On the whole, he hoped the House would reject this bill.Lord Althorp
113211311130 was against the bill, not only because it was an infraction of the constitution, but because it was not applicable as a remedy for the evil complained of. When he last opposed this measure, he had done it with a trembling hand and an aching heart. It was the only time he had ever had the misfortune to differ from one to whose opinions all his respect was
113211311130Lord Milton
11471146 said, that the present measure was a suspension of the general liberties of the country as a remedy for a local and a partial disease. The effect of the bill was to enable government to keep in confinement, such individuals as they would otherwise be compelled to bring to open trial. On all former occasions, when a suspension of the Habeas Corpus act was obtained, the evil against which it was intended to guard, was of an extensive and general nature. In the report laid before the House four months ago, it was stated, that a combination to overthrow the government and constitution of the country existed throughout the greatest part of Great Britain. But it was impossible now to maintain, that the disease was of so general a nature. The idea of a general com-
11471146The Hon. F. Douglas
 after some prefatory observations, in which he represented the existing inequality in the duration of polls at elections, and the necessity of some regulations to prevent inconvenient delays, on that subject, as well as to diminish the expenses incurred by the candidate in the erection of hustings, the giving away of ribbons and cockades, &c. moved for leave to bring in a bill to alter and amend the laws concerning the election of members to serve in parliament.—After a few words from Mr. Curwen, Mr. Long, Mr. Butterworth, who remonstrated against the proposition for relinquishing the practice of giving away ribbons, the lord mayor who stated the present depression of the ribbon trade, Mr. F. Douglas, and Mr. Bennet, leave was granted.—Mr. Wynn subsequently brought in the bill, which was read a first time.Mr. Wynn,
1149 said, that although charges and imputations might be cast upon him for his conduct, he would not cringe before the tyranny of clamour, but would support the present measure. It was a libel upon the constitution of England to say that the suspension affected it; it was not so ill founded, its parts were not so slightly connected, its materials were not so brittle, as to be so affected. The liberties of the whole people of England were not suspended: "Let the gall'd jade wince". There were two causes that would operate to prevent the abuse of this law—1st, the arm of the law extending from the dregs of the people to the highest rank of power and dignity; 2nd, the superintend-
1149Mr. Vernon
11511150 after the able and eloquent speeches he had heard on his side of the House last night, speeches which appeared to him irresistibly convincing, but which the division proved not to be convincing on the other side, did not indulge the presumption, that he could add any thing to what was so forcibly argued, or make any impression on those who had last night resisted the arguments urged; but he thought it a duty he owed to the situation he had held for a considerable time back, and to the place he now occupied as a representative, not to give a silent vote on this question. He should be obliged sometimes to speak of himself; but from the situation he held, and the exertions he had made, this was unavoidable. His exertions, he would fairly state, were constant and effectual; but they were not treated as they ought, by persons whose duty it was to pay his situation and his conduct more respect. On the day of the Spa-fields meeting, he took every step to prevent riot or outrage; he summoned all his men to attend; he was himself at his post. He came into possession of many letters connected with that business: many of them threatened that he himself would be shot, but these he disregarded. All the papers that seemed worthy of the least attention he sent to the secretary of state; but he must observe, that they had no mark of authenticity. He had discovered that they were written by designing persons, whose object was to create alarm, and not rebellion. He had papers that would employ and amuse the House till this bill expired; and if they would exa-
11511150The Lord Mayor,
1153 said, that an imperious sense of duty impelled him to come to a decision different from that to which he was led at the commencement of the session. He had then voted for the suspension act; he would now vote in direct opposition to it. On that occasion he was actuated, not by any alarm arising from what was past, but from a prospect of the future; and supported the policy of the measure on similar grounds as a man whose house had been on fire would con-
1153Lord Deerhurst
 spoke strongly against the bill. It seemed to him that the secret committee had exceeded their powers. The mode in which that committee had been selected was a mere mockery. What most strongly excited his indignation in the report was, the recommendation at the end of it, that recourse should be had to this measure. Unless the House turned over a new leaf, it was quite impossible that the present system could continue long. To suppose that the oligarchy could be long supported by a military despotism—to suppose that the people would con sent to have their liberties destroyed and trampled upon, was absurd. When he was last at Algiers, he happened to arrive immediately after at: execution of rebels against the dey; and it struck him with horror to see heads piled upon the walls of the town like shot in the arsenal at Woolwich. But if the course now pursued was persevered in, it was his firm conviction that we should cither sec, on the walls of the Tower, the heads of multitudes of the people, or that the heads of his majesty's ministers must be struck off.Lord Cochrane
, in explanation, stated, that he had always received the most polite and prompt attention from the right hon. gentleman, whenever he required his assistance; but on the 2d of December, he must repeat, that no cavalry were in Skinner-street or near the Tower, and that the first appearance of any cavalry was at Aldgate, after the outrages were committed, and when the people were employed in collecting the arms which were scattered about the streets.The Lord Mayor
 supported the Petition. He had presented many memorials from the petitioners to his majesty's government on the subject; and although he allowed that the general principle of national policy was against granting such compensations, yet, under the very peculiar circumstances in which the petitioners had been placed, he thought they were justly entitled to it.Lord Lascelles
11551154 commented on the speech of the lord mayor, two-thirds of which had no relation whatever to the question before the House. The worthy magistrate had talked of the disrespect which he had experienced, but had not stated from what quarter. It could not be from the home office, from which he had experienced every due at-
11551154Mr. Addington
1148 said, it was painful to reason
1148Mr. Curwen
 said, the only question for the House was, whether an adequate necessity had been made out for the suspension of the liberties of the country. He contended that this necessity was not only made out from the report, but from the arguments of the hon. gentleman who opposed the bill. All of them admitted the existence of danger, and that the danger was not tangible by the ordinary exercise of the law. Indeed, the hon. gentleman who preceded him was willing to subject the disaffected counties to the operation of martial law. The disaffection had its chief seat in six or seven counties; but the danger was not confined to these counties; endeavours were made to propagate the disease in other quarters by delegations and missions. Endeavours were made to eradicate all religion from the minds of the people, to prepare them for their pernicious doctrines. No other law could be more applicable to the offence than the law before the House. He allowed that nothing could be more abhorrent to the feelings of a gentleman, or even more at variance with good policy, than the employment of spies in general. But it would be a great reproach to every government, if it did not make use of every engine in its power to discover the nature and extent of any danger which threatened the country. The same reason which sanctioned the use of spies in a state of war, sanctioned it in the present case.Mr. Lockhart
, however much he regretted to believe that dangers existed which warranted this measure, felt it his duty to give it his unqualified support. It was said that there was no danger, because the people whom this bill was intended to check were low in rank, and degraded in character; but who that had read the history of the same class of men in France, could allow themselves to be lulled into a false security by such an argument?Mr. Grenfell
1145ll presented a Petition from certain British merchants who had suffered the Confiscation of Property in Denmark, in 1807, in consequence of the unexpected bombardment of Copenhagen, at a time when we were on friendly terms with Denmark. The original value of the property confiscated was 200,0001145llSir J. Mackintosh
1152 allowed all credit to the lord mayor, for his conduct on the occasion to which his speech referred, but he denied that the effect of the present measure would be to deprive the people of England of their liberties; nor did he think it true that his exertions had been the only
1152Sir W. Curtis
11571156 rose to submit to the House, a motion of the utmost importance to the character of the country, as well as to the interests of a class of unfortunate beings, who, from the nature of their present loathsome occupation, seemed to be shut out from almost all social intercourse with their fellow-men, and deprived of every portion of that respect which gene-
11571156Mr. Bennet
11781177v.v.v.v.v.1176quasidicta117511741173 sat out with asserting, that no parliamentary ground had been laid for the adoption of his hon. and learned friend's motion; neither could he
11781177v.v.v.v.v.1176quasidicta117511741173The Attorney-General
1158 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill to repeal such parts of the acts of the 25th and 30th of Charles the 2d, as require declarations, in certain cases, to be made against the belief of transubstantiation, and asserting the worship of the church of Rome to be idolatrous. The acts in question had been made at the end of the reign of Charles 2d, when the duke of York, the next heir to the crown, was a declared papist, and when the country was agitated by rumours of popish plots. Bishop Burnet, in the History of his own Times, stated, that while examinations were going on, and preparation was making for the trial of the prisoners, a bill was brought
1158General Thornton
 was not disposed to provoke any discussion then upon the subject, He thought it would be more expedient to postpone the consideration of the measure to another session, and should therefore move the previous question; which was carried.Lord Castlereagh
1180 thought it of the most serious importance that the House should mark its opinion of this proceeding. The attorney-general, he observed, had not cited any case in which the question was brought before the court; but the law could only be settled by the decision of judges, in cases brought under their consideration. Lord Mansfield, who was by no means disposed to weaken the power and influence of the Crown, had said, that whenever bail is offered the Court never looks at the warrant. He did not charge the noble secretary of state with any disposition to violate the law; but when the difficulty occurred, he met it in a way in which it should not have been met. He should have said to the magistrates, You have a duty to perform, but it does not
1180Mr. Courtenay
1182ex-officioex-officiocorpus delicti,corpus delicli;ex-officioex-officio1181nullus liber home eapiatur vel imprisonetur, said, that after this question had been so ably supported, both in detail and in general constitutional doctrine, it required some apology from him for offering himself to the notice of the House. He had waited till the last moment, expecting some farther arguments from the legal authorities, since the attorney and solicitor-general like greyhounds generally ran in pairs; but it seemed that the learned solicitor-general had left his colleague to bear the whole brunt of the contest. The only remaining constitutional branch of the subject which he should endeavour to support was this—that there was no practice of the courts, no usage, no dicta, that could contravene the established law of the land. The law of the land was, that 1182ex-officioex-officiocorpus delicti,corpus delicli;ex-officioex-officio1181nullus liber home eapiatur vel imprisonetur,Sir F. Burdett
1183 felt himself called upon to address the House, after what had fallen from the hon. baronet; and he could assure the hon. baronet, that unbiassed, unfettered, and unshackled by any pledge whatever, he had no doubt of the soundness of the opinion given by the law officers of the Crown. He had listened with the utmost attention to all that had been said, but he had heard no argument whatever which, in his opinion, had shown the interference of the noble secretary of state to be unconstitutional. On the contrary, the more he attended to the subject, the more he was convinced, that that Letter was founded on what the constitution gave the secretary u right to do. And he would only here remind gentlemen how often
1183The Solicitor-General
 thought there was considerable inconvenience in referring to a speech spoken in the other House of parliament, even though it was printed. There was no knowing whither such a practice might lead.Mr. Wynn
 said, the publication might be alluded to as an argument which had been used, though not as a speech spoken.Sir F. Burdell
1185 proceeded—If fn a case of common cheat a magistrate could commit, he saw no reason why such power was refused in cases of libel. For would any man tell him that libel was ever intended by the legislature to be more privileged than any other crime? There might be cases in the law of libel which might give rise to nice questions, but certainly this might be done in every other case as well as libel. Much had been said of the oppression to which these persons were subjected by being imprisoned, but was not this the case in every instance where a charge was preferred against an individual? It was unfortunate indeed that this should be so, but there was no avoiding it, when the imperfection of human nature was taken into consideration. He was astonished to hear lord Hale's language so much tortured as it had been by the hon. and learned mover. Lord Hale had distinctly laid it down, that justices of the peace might issue their warrants against persons charged with crimes against the peace and hold them to bail. Hawkins also said, that justices had this power in cases of felony and misdemeanors. The very act of the justices of the King's-bench, in holding persons to bail, and in receiving that bail, justifies the opinion of the law officers of the Crown. I Having established—first, that libel was an offence cognizable by magistrates; and secondly, that being cognizable by them they had a right to commit for it in default of bail, he conceived that he had made out his case. As to the right of the secretary of state to call the attention of the magistracy to certain offences, it was only that which had frequently been done by proclamation, and by judges at the opening of an assize. He was astonished to hear his hon. and learned friend introduce so long a history of attornies and solicitors general, as if to assimilate the proceedings of his hon. and learned friend near him and himself, with the proceedings which he condemned. There might, be an imputation against the heads of his hon. and learned friend near him and himself, but there could be none against their hearts. They had discharged their duty to the best of their ability; and in so doing, he denied that he had declared any old, or introduced any new law. After
1185The Solicitor-General
 complimented the last speaker on his able construction of the law, and expressed his conviction that that was the only fair construction which could be put upon it. He was the more convinced of this by the consideration of what had passed in Wilkes's case, and the judgment given by lord Camden. Every offence, and the greatest the law knew, was subject to be decided on, as to commitment, by a single magistrate. A man might write to another abroad that he was about to send him six bales of cloth and four of cotton; this was innocent; but if the bales of cloth meant ships of the line, and the cotton frigates, and the letter was written to give information to an enemy, the offence was treason, and a magistrate might commit the writer. With respect to the other part of the case, he considered that the secretary of state possessed the right of directing magistrates, as the head and superintendent of the police of the country; but then, he ought to give the directions on his own responsibility, and not on that of the attorney and solicitor-general. He never knew an instance in which the law-officers of the Crown had been so called upon to expound the law, except that of the volunteer bill, and that had not been so successful as to render it desirable as a precedent. Lord Sidmouth's Circular had, besides, been addressed to the lords lieutenants of counties, which was a farther impropriety. The lord lieutenant being a military officer, ought not to have been made the medium of such a communication.Mr. Wynn
 explained the special reasons which had induced his noble relative to have recourse to that measure which had been this night called in question. He need not remind the House what the state of the country had been at the time the Circular was issued. It was sufficient to state, that the most mischievous publications were in circulation, and it in consequence became necessary, in the month of February last, great alarm having been expressed on this subject by some of the most respectable individuals in the country, for his noble relative to take the opinion of the law officers of the Crown. It was then for him to write specifically to the magistrates who had applied to him for information, inclosing them the opinion of the law officers, or to adopt the course which he had taken. To issue a circular letter explanatory of the law, had appeared the most efficient measure to which he could resort, and the decision came to would, he doubted not, meet with the approbation of the House.Mr. Addington
1179 cited a variety of opinions and cases, to rebut the arguments advanced by the learned attorney-general. With respect to the authority of lord Hale, so much relied upon, the book in which the passage he had quoted, was to be found, was not written upon misdemeanors, but solely upon treasons, felonies, and capital offences. It was most clear, that the word crime, which the attorney-general considered as so conclusive, was used by lord Hale, in the passage cited, as relating to felony and felony alone. The authority of Hawkins, too, so far as it went, was against the power now assumed by the justices. What were the authorities quoted by the attorney-general, against those produced by his hon. and learned friend? They were authorities taken out of the Crown office; and not the decisions of judges, or what were to be found in any text writer. Yet it did not appear, even from those authorities, that any individual had been committed or held to bail, who had not been previously indicted. But even if it could be shown that custom was on the side of the practice now asserted, he should still maintain, on this particular point, that it was illegal. Lord Camden, in the case of general warrants, admitted they had been in use since the revolution; but, he said, was mere usage to grow into a law?—No degree of antiquity could give sanction, he observed, to a usage which was founded in an abuse. The
1179Sir W. Burroughs
 seconded the motion, and read a letter from the clergyman of a considerable county town, which stated, that although much interest had been excited there in behalf of these unfortunate children, nevertheless, in the space of three months, two children had stuck fast in chimnies, and perished in that shocking I state from suffocation.Mr. Wilberforce
 observed, that the secretary of state was right in taking the opinion of the law officers of the Crown, but it by no means followed, that he was to use that opinion to influence the judgment and conduct of justices of the peace. What greater right had the secretary of state to dictate to the justices of the peace, than he had to dictate to the judges of the King's-bench, of the Common Pleas, or of the Exchequer The jurisdiction of justices of the peace might not be considered so important as that of the judges of the superior courts, but it was unquestionably very important, and, therefore, why should the Crown direct the exercise of their authority any more than any judicial authority whatever? The justices of the peace were as responsible for the discharge of their duties as any other judges of the country.Sir C. Monck
 said, it was not parliamentary to allude to what passed in the other House of parliament; it was the practice to allow any printed publication to be referred to: the circumstance of that publication having been delivered in another place might, however, lead to a deviation from order in commenting upon it.The Speaker
1186 in reply, expressed his surprise, that none of the members of administration, with the exception of his learned friend and the hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last but one, bad offered their opinion on this question, Their allowing it to go thus silently to a decision, showed the little value they set on questions of importance to the liberty of the subject. Nothing had been said in answer to the objections which had been urged on constitutional grounds. His hon. and learned friend seemed to think that he was only called on to justify himself against a particular charge, and the same view appeared to have been taken
1186Sir S Romilly,
11721171**1170116911681167116611651164esprit de corps116311621161ex officioex officio11601159** said, that he should not offer any apology to the House for bringing under their notice the Circular Letter of lord Sidmouth; * that he felt that if he had any thing to apologize for, it was that he had so long delayed calling the attention of parliament to that extraordinary letter. This, however, had not
11721171**1170116911681167116611651164esprit de corps116311621161ex officioex officio11601159**Sir Samuel Romilly
 seconded the motion.Mr. Blake
119311921191ex-officioex-officio1190 rose, for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to a petition which he held in his hands, involving in it considerations of the highest importance. The petitioner said, he had experienced great sufferings and privations, owing to the error, to say the least of it, of the judge before whom he had lately been tried. It was from Mr. Thomas
119311921191ex-officioex-officio1190Sir F. Burdett
ex debito justitœ.venire de novo,11951194tales. said, he never was more astonished in his life than at the statement he had just heard, because, with respect to a great many of the facts in the petition, they were altogether without foundation; he spoke of the part more particularly which alluded to himself, if he was meant in what was said respecting the communication with the attorney-general. He undertook to state, that unless his memory of past transactions was gone, he never had had any personal communication with Mr. Wooler, or any agent on his behalf; nor did he ever see him, till he appeaved in court. But if such a communication had been made to him, he would have told Mr. Wooler, that the same proceeding must be observed in his case which was observed in all others. All the communication he had with him was giving him notice that his trial would come on of course after the Easter term, that as he had pleaded, he might not say he was kept in custody till the sittings after Trinity term. It was stated, that the second trial was pressed on him. But the fact was, that so far from being unwilling, when he (the attorney-general) was looking over some papers, and pausing in the proceeding, Wooler's attorney desired to have his warrant, as a sufficient number of special jurymen was not present to pray a ex debito justitœ.venire de novo,11951194tales.The Attorney General
 asked the learned gentleman, whether the names of the jurors were called over? whether the clerk had asked them if they had agreed in their verdict? whether their foreman should speak for them? and whether they consented?Mr. Ponsonby
 said, that the questions were asked such as the right hon. gentleman had stated them; but he could not say whether all the jury repiled that their foreman should speak for them.—such was not usual. It was rather customary for the clerk to say the words, "Does your foremen speak for you?" and the silence of the jury implies their assent. In this case, the judge asked the jury, "Are you agreed in your verdict?" "yes, my lord," was the reply of the foreman, "but—" "I cannot receive the reasons of a pant of the jury," said the judge, "what is your verdict?—"Guilty, my lord," was again the reply.The Attorney General
1196 was of opinion, from the
1196Mr. Ponsonby
 answered, that the court was not satisfied that the verdict was returned in such a way that it could form the foundation of judgment.The Attorney General
 said, that the word "but" was not used that he recollected.The Attorney General
 never heard the word, "but," on that occasion.The Solicitor General
 said, he was certainly going on with the other trial, but Mr. Wooler's attorney seeing him pausing, and believing that he was not ready to go en, sent him a note demanding a warrant for proceeding immediately.The Attorney General
 said, the reason why Mr. Justice Abbot reported the case to the other judges was, that a gentleman had stated in court, three quarters of an hour after the verdict had been recorded, that all the jurors had not concurred.The Solicitor General
ex-officioex-officio would say nothing further on the subject but for an expression used by the attorney-general as to his motives in bringing in the petition. He had alleged that his intention was to bring the administration of justice into contempt. He knew that the attorney-general had the power of filing informations ex-officioex-officioSir F. Burdctt
1198 replied, that not
1198The Attorney-General
 said, that the offer was a handsome one, and he wondered it was not accepted.Sir F. Burdett
1201 said, that the motion was altogether unnecessary, because it was competent to the committee, without the proposed instruction, to fix the duration of the bill at any period it thought proper. Such an instruction was called for, only where it was deemed proper to introduce in the committee some matter not strictly relevant. But, waving the point of form, he must object to the motion upon principle; for if the state of the country should be such at the period stated in the motion, as to require the further continuance of the act, he did not know that to call gentlemen to attend parliament, from the several districts in which their local influence and personal authority might be so usefully exercised, would not be a greater evil than the cessation of the act itself. As to the rumour of an intended dissolution at the close of the session, he could not think it probable that any of his majesty's ministers would have made such a declaration as the right hon. baronet had stated, for such a declaration would imply an interference with the prerogative of the Crown. But this had nothing to do with the question before the House. It would be obviously inconvenient to assemble parliament before Christmas, and especially so for the Irish
1201Lord Castlereagh
 could not answer for what was said by any individual, but he was not aware of any such intention.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that if Providence blessed us with a plentiful harvest, of which there was now every prospect, that distress which was the instrument of disaffection, would be taken out of the hands of the enemies of the public tranquillity, and the suspension act might expire on the 1st of December. Every member who supported that act allowed that it was an evil, and that it should not be continued one hour longer than it was justified by the necessity of the case. If, therefore, the difficulties of the country at the period mentioned should be so mitigated or removed as to render it unnecessary, it should then expire; but if dangers to justify its continuance should exist, much as he valued the exertions of members in their country residences, he thought this House would then be the proper sphere of their duties.Mr. Wynn
 was in favour of appointing a determinate day for the meeting of parliament.Mr. Wynn
 objected to the limitation of the bill to a fixed period rather than to six weeks after the meeting of parliament; but if any fixed period was thought necessary, he would, to avoid the necessity of calling parliament together at too early a period, propose, that the duration should extend to the 1st of March.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that every reasonable indulgence, consistent with safe custody would be allowed to the persons in confinement.Lord Castlereagh
 objected to the extension of the bill to Scotland, and moved the omission of the clause by which that country was included in its operation.Mr. Douglas
1203 wished to know whether, in fact, this bill would really extend
1203Lord Folkestone
 said, it was evidently the intention that the measure should extend to Scotland. He saw no reason to suppose that it could not be executed in Scotland.Lord Castlereagh
 wished to know for what purpose the second committee of secrecy had been appointed? Was it for mere form, or was it to lay a parliamentary ground for this measure? If the latter, he could say, that the report did not touch Scotland, and he would assert farther, that not a tittle of evidence relative to Scotland had been submitted to the committee. When, therefore, the report was silent respecting Scotland, was it to be endured that the liberties of the whole Scottish nation were to be taken away on the mere recommendation of ministers? What availed the good conduct of the people, their unshaken allegiance, their loyalty or their attachment to the constitution, if this could be done at the mere will of an administration? If the committee, under these circumstances, extended the bill to Scotland, the vote would be the most violent and unjust decision ever made by that House.Mr. Ponsonby
 expressed his surprise that ministers had not given any reply to his question. His question was, net whether it was a point of policy that this law should extend to Scotland, but whether in point of fact, Scotland was not taken out of the operation of the act by the way in which the clause was drawn up? If that was the case, it was of the utmost importance that the House should know whether they were legislating for Scotland or not.Lord Folkestone
1204 rose as a Scotsman to protest against the injustice of extending the measure to his country. He defied the
1204Sir R. Fergusson
 observed, that all the disorders which had occurred in the disturbed districts mentioned in the report proceeded solely from the spirit of Luddism, against which the present bill was perfectly inoperative. Before the former bill passed, there had been a great many clubs in those districts, which were of an open, public nature; but after the bill passed, the people, instead of meeting publicly as before, assembled secretly in barns and Methodist meeting-houses, and in that way the late disorders were hatched up. He would ask whether Mr. Oliver, and such men as he, ought not to be regarded as the chief instruments in these movements Nothing could be more culpable than that abominable system by which spies and informers were let loose among, an ignorant people, to work on their passions and provoke them to acts of violence-He should not object to a law for punishing more severely the crime of frame-breaking, or any bill for strengthening the magisterial authority in the disturbed districts; but he must protest against the present bill.Lord G. Cavendish
 said, that Scotland was included in the act, but admitted that no person had been taken up, and that no evidence was laid before the second committee relative to the existence of treasonable practices or disaffection in Scotland.Mr. Bathurst
 said, it would render the measure altogether illusory, if any privileged place was left, to which the authors of these hostile machinations might retire.Mr. Bathurst
 thought any such instruction to the committee unnecessary.Mr. Bathurst
 observed, that as there might be a long debate on the Habeas Corpus suspension bill, he should rather prefer moving his intended Resolutions on a future day; Tuesday, for instance. They were necessary in order to show the difference of his views from those of the chancellor of the exchequer. He should, therefore, simply move his resolutions with the view of adjourning the debate till Tuesday. He then moved the following Resolutions:Mr. Tierney
1197 said, he understood the attorney-general quite well. Though the solicitor wrote the note, Wooler took credit with the jury for greater readiness to proceed than the prosecutors showed. This was quite irreconcileable with the charge in the petition, that he was hurried on while exhausted with the other trial. Such a contradiction affected the credit of the whole petition. He wished so dishonourable a contradiction could be explained. He could not but greatly lament one omission which had confessedly taken place on the trial.— Before he alluded to this omission, he thought it right to disclaim the slightest wish of casting an imputation upon Mr. Justice Abbott, or to insinuate that there sat on the bench in this country any judge of a time-serving character, or who, in the discharge of his duty, looked for any other reward than the approbation of his own conscience. The omission to which he alluded was, that the learned judge should not, at the instant of the appearance of a disagreement among the jury, have taken the very obvious step of suggesting that then was their time fully to consider the nature of their verdict, and of seeing at
1197Mr. Brougham
 was perfectly satisfied with the explanation of his two learned friends. If credit was to be given to the attorney-general, and, from long knowledge of him, he had every reason to believe his statement, the assertion of Wooler, that he was obliged, after having been exhausted, to enter upon the other trial, was incorrect, as the immediate succession of the second trial was of his own seeking.Mr. Brougham
 wished to know whether the foreman, after saying "yes," had not added—"but."Mr. Brougham
1188, in postponing his motion on this subject, wished to offer his reasons for so doing, He did not withdraw the motion because the subject was not one
1188Mr. Brougham
1199there as one of those who had voted for the first suspension of the Habeas Corpus as a measure of urgent but temporary necessity, wished to know whether those persons who had now been under arrest for four months, and whose imprisonment it was, by the present measure, proposed to prolong, had been during that period kept in solitary confinement. He was the more anxious on this point, having learnt from a gentleman confined in that manner for fifteen months in the Temple at Paris, during the government of the Directory, that he considered that the human intellect could not sustain itself under such circumstances for any great length of time, without material derangement; and he was afraid that system was, most unhappily, gaining ground in this country—Mr. Gurney said, that since the last debate, he had seen persons eminently well qualified, and who had taken the greatest pains to inform themselves as to the state of Birmingham, which had been mentioned in the last Report as one of those towns to which the spirit of disaffection and consequent organization into societies had spread; and they declared, on the minutest inquisition, that the accusation was totally unfounded. Birmingham was obviously just the place where the greatest distress must necessarily exist— an immense population got together on the two staple manufactures of arms, and of toys—peace rendering the one useless, and poverty the other unsaleable; and yet 1199thereMr. Gurney,
 asked, whether the noble lord intended that the persons now under arrest should continue for nine months longer in solitary confinement.Mr. Gurney
 had supported the former measure, but as parliament was about to rise, he thought the duration of the bill ought to be limited, and that the 1st of December, or some definite times should be fixed.General Gascoyne
 expressed his surprise that no answer had been given to the question of the noble lord: for if it really was the case that the bill could have no operation in Scotland, then it was not passed for the purpose of suppressing any dangerous practices in that country, but for some unexplained object of ministers. He believed that since the former bill passed, not one individual in Scotland had been committed under it. The question was not whether the Habeas Corpus had or had not been properly suspended in the early part of the session, but whether they should now pass a bill, purporting to deprive Scotland of the benefits of the act against wrongous imprisonment, though that measure was not called for by the state of the country, and when it was not certain that the bill could operate.Sir S. Romilly
Frangas non flectes1200 objected to the measure altogether, but seeing that it was likely to obtain the sanction of the House, he would propose a clause to render its duration as short as the assumed necessity justified. By the present provisions of the bill it was to continue till six weeks after the assembling of parliament. This, it was evident, made its duration very indefinite, for it depended on the pleasure of ministers, at what time, after a prorogation or a dissolution, they would call parliament together. There was a rumour abroad, that a dissolution would take place after the termination of the present session, and consequently with the suspension act in existence. If this was the case, it was difficult to say when this oppressive measure would cease. He would not propose that any pledge should be required as to the time of assembling the House; but he would move, that the duration of the bill should be limited to the 1st of December, and thus make it necessary for the Crown to call parliament together, if
Frangas non flectes1200Sir J. Newport
 said, that the rumour of an intended dissolution depended on the authority of a noble peer high in administration, who had declared that such a measure was in contemplation, to more than one noble peer of his (sir J. N's.) acquaintance.Sir, J. Newport
 presented a petition from Thomas Evans, confined in Horsemonger-gaol under the warrant of a secretary of state. He was denied pen, ink, or paper, summoned six times before the privy-council, and no other question asked than whether he was acquainted with Thistlewood, Watson, and questions of the like trivial import. The prisoner was removed to a condemned cell of the most wretched description, and a flute, his only amusement, taken from him. He was ironed for some time. His irons, after a visit from three magistrates, who said nothing on the subject, were afterwards taken off by order of the secretary of state, but he has not tasted fresh air since the 10th of April. He affirmed, that he had no connexion whatever with any designs against the peace of the country, and that by this confinement his trade is totally ruined, and his family reduced to beggary.Mr. Bennet
1207 thought the assertion of the right hon. gentleman warranted an
1207Mr. Macdonald
 said, the gaol was different from other gaols. In other gaols they had more room, and a yard to walk in. The gaol in Horsemonger-lane had no yard: for this, among other reasons, it was of essential benefit that gaols and prisoners should be accessible to the inspection of the public eye.Mr. Bennet
 would fain know who it was that was responsible, since all magistrates and other persons were excluded? Under such laws and restrictions, who was responsible that prisoners were not put in irons, and even put to the torture? The secretary had promulgated a new law as to prisoners; and having done so, he now says he is not bound to know any thing about the matter. The other night it was stated that solitary confinement was authorized by the law: the noble lord (Castlereagh) had stated that there was a distinction as to high treason, and that all prisoners under that charge were committed to safe and close custody. The noble lord had taken this up from the attorney-general, but stated it more explicitly. He was not now prepared to deny the interpretation given to the law. From the books, it appeared, that all prisoners were committed to safe and close custody. In Bumstead's Reports, there was a ease in which lord Coke lays it down as the law, that gaolers are bound to keep all prisoners committed to them in safe and close custody. The same doctrine was found in Bacon's abridgment, and in Coke upon Lyttleton. There was thus no authority for solitary confinement in the case of state prisoners. He had, however, seen directions from the secretary of state to keep them in solitary confinement. Irons were only to be applied when absolutely necessary. Other prisoners were not put in irons, and therefore it was not necessary here.Lord Folkestone
 thought the subject called for inquiry. The parties taken up had not been confined in the strong gaol of Newgate, merely because if placed there, the City magistrates could have access to them. He described the conduct of ministers to be most despotic; and maintained, that a man might as well live under the sway of one tyrant, as under the dominion of the deys on the opposite side of the House.Lord Cochrane
12131212121112101209 said, that though he had but little hope of making an impression on the House by his opposition to the measure, he felt it his duty to protest against it. The noble lord who had opened this subject to the House, had properly divided it into the causes and the remedies of the discontent. The causes he (Mr. B.) conceived might be all traced to want of food and want of work in the districts which had been disturbed; the remedies were work and food. During the war the ingenuity of mechanics had been exerted to find all possible substitutes for human labour, and as the demand for the produce of labour, had now diminished, an enmity towards machinery had grown up and had broken out into acts of violence. It was fit that this spirit should be repressed, that if the vigilant execution of the laws were not sufficient, local laws might be enacted to suppress it,—but it formed no pretext for putting all Britain to the ban, on account of frequent breaches of the peace in five counties. There was no case more in point than the disturbances in the year 1812. If any one would look into the report drawn up at that time (and no one
12131212121112101209Mr. Bennet
121612151214, junr. said, that the hon. gentleman opposed the measure because he denied the danger, and thus gave them to understand, that he would support the former, provided the latter could be satisfactorily established. It was because he (Mr. G.) thought the danger imminent, and that the exigency of the crisis could be met in no other way, that he would vote for the bill. It had been erroneously stated, that this measure was a suspension of the constitution; whereas, it was merely a remedy for a case contemplated by the constitution. The hon. gentleman had denied that a conspiracy against the state existed, because the only alleged disturbances proceeded, in his opinion, from the instigation of government agents. It had never been proved, however, that government had sanctioned the conduct which Oliver was accused of pursuing, or that any person was implicated but that individual himself, who had acted without any countenance from his employers. He heard many gentlemen deny, on these grounds, the existence of all danger; and, from a regard to their judgment and integrity, he should have been staggered in his own convictions of an opposite kind, did he not recollect that men of good principles and sagacious understandings had been found in all ages and countries who, in seasons of great public alarm, distrusted the reality of approaching calamities, and, by their incredulity, increased the danger in which they disbelieved. Ancient and modern states furnished examples of fatal error, which allowed the designs of conspirators to advance unchecked to a point when resistance became unavailing. Of Cataline's conspiracy, it had been said, by a great orator and statesman, when speaking of the character of such men to whom he had alluded, "Nonnulli sunt in hoc ordine, qui aut ea quæ imminent, non videant; ant ea quæ vident, dissimulent: qui spem Catalinæ mollibus sententiis aluerunt, conjunationemque nascentem non credendo cor-
121612151214Mr. C. Grant
122512241223ex-officio1222onus probandi1221ex parte1220 said, that he had not intended offering himself to the House, but that some things had fallen from different gentlemen in the course of debate, particularly from his hon. and learned friend who spoke last, on which he could not but feel anxious to offer a few observations.—That, on a question of this importance to the happiness, safety, and freedom of our country, a question which demanded from every member of that House who wished to act conscientiously or reasonably the discharge of a very awful and difficult duty, he was sure he need not, so impressed, doubt that the House would indulge him with its patience, if, in reply to his hon. and learned friend, he expressed, (with whatever reluctance he might feel in so doing), the grounds on which he had determined to give, as far as one vote could go, his assistance to this proposition in every stage.—He had listened with deep and respectful attention, he hoped impartial too, to all that had fallen from those who had preceded him in debate, and he
122512241223ex-officio1222onus probandi1221ex parte1220Lord Nugent
12391238123712361235ad libitum12341233123212311230—‡ rose and said:—12391238123712361235ad libitum12341233123212311230—‡Mr. Macdonald
1248au secret124712461245124412431242l12411240 observed, that much had been said of the danger which threatened the constitution, but it was difficult for him to learn from the different speakers what the precise nature of that danger was. Some spoke of one danger and some of another, each raising a phantom of his own from which they professed to have the most dreadful apprehensions: nothing had, however, been said, to enable any man of common understanding to know what they meant, except indeed what had been said by the hon. member near him (Mr. Lamb), who had manfully and plainly told his opinion of it, that it was solely directed against the petitions which had been sent up by the people for reform and economy. The hon. gentleman had indulged himself pretty much in, assertions respecting the wild and visionary schemes, as be called them, which had lately been proposed by some individuals. He did not find fault with the hon. member for making such assertions, but he must say it was just as easy for him to say that the hon. member and his friends endeavoured to impose upon the people by delusive statements, and by measures tending to deprive them of their best and most sacred rights, which he (sir Francis) would defend to his latest breath. He was not in the least astonished to hear the hon. gentleman defend the borough system; on the contrary, it was natural that he should do so, as he was himself a borough nominee. The hon. gentleman could not blame him, if he attacked the system and its adherents, for to them he owed no allegiance, hut on the contrary eternal hostility, be lioving them, as he did, to be the cause of all those evils with which, unfortunately, this once happy country had been cursed. He knew the motive on which ministers acted in the present occasion, and he could frankly tell them, that it would be
1248au secret124712461245124412431242l12411240Sir F. Burdett
 said, he had seen in a paper that day what was called a corrected report of the speech of a right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Addington), in which it was said, that every fact contained in his (the lord Mayor's) speech of a former evening, was refuted. His lordship proceeded to controvert some of the assertions then made, particularly with regard to the time and manner the rioters were defeated at the Royal Exchange, and to the employment of the military in the city. The right hon. gentleman had said, that his noble relative, the secretary of state, had at one o'clock heard of the rioters being in Skinner's-street, which was soon after he went to the Horse-guards, and sent off a troop of life-guards. The mob had left Skinner's-street, and was dispersed at the Exchange, at half past twelve o'clock, and the few persons that attacked the gun-smiths in the Minories had left and were scattered and throwing the arms in the street when the life-guards arrived at Aldgate. His lordship observed, that his statement of facts might be unpleasant to the gentlemen opposite, but though a new member, he was determined he would not be put down by any interruptions or clamour. What might have been the motives for republishing the right hon. gentleman's speech three days after it was delivered, he could not imagine, unless it was to mislead the people, and to impress the House with the necessity of this measure, and then to get an additional vote or two in support of it.The Lord Mayor
12521251 said, that he had come all the way from Edinburgh on purpose to meet those who had arraigned his conduct in his absence, and had through him attacked the administration of the law of Scotland. He deemed it encumbent
12521251The Lord Advocate
 wished to know whether the bill in its present state should extend to Scotland. It was said, that according to the laws of Scotland no warrant would run there which was not signed by a person resident in Scotland.Lord Folkestone
 said, he had no doubt that the bill in its present state would extend to Scotland. For a century and a half the warrants of a Scottish secretary, resident in London had operated in Scotland.The Lord Advocate
1208 thought it was too much to expect when a petition like that now before them was presented for the first time, that those connected with the department to which the case belonged should be able at once to speak to all the allegations which it contained. These could not be held
1208Mr. Bathurst
 also opposed the bill, although he had voted for the measure some months ago. He was alarmed with the report of the committee at the beginning of the session, but the inquiries that had since taken place, enabled hint to sec the danger in a different light, and to satisfy himself that it was very much exaggerated. He could not, therefore, consent to place the constitution in abeyance any longer, and should certainly vote against the bill.Mr. Protheroe
 supported the motion. He could not conceive any basis more proper upon which the measure could rest, than the result of those investigations which had been made by two committees of that House. He was not aware of any circumstance that had transpired since the first report, or since the bringing up of the second report, that could justify him in lessening his confidence in them. The only difference was, that disaffection had now withdrawn itself from the seat of government, but he saw nothing in that circumstance which made the general danger of the country less.Mr. G. Bankes
1217 differed from his hon. colleague, and thought it due to the loyal inhabitants of Bristol, as well as to the country at large, to take every possible precaution to defend them from the evils of anarchy and rebellion. He was satisfied, however, that if on the occasion of the late trials the prosecution had been confined to a lower description of offence, there would
1217Mr. Hart Davis
 said, that one of the allegations of the petition set forth, that a petition to that House had been detained at the office of the secretary of state. If this charge was founded, a great breach of the privileges of the House had been committed.Mr. Brougham
1253 believed the speeches which had given the greatest offence to the learned lord, were not those of himself or his learned friend, but the speeches of the members for Lanarkshire and for Glasgow. The learned lord complained of the hardship of not having the charge followed up against him that night. But
1253Mr. Brougham
 believed that this measure was calculated to secure the peace and happiness of the country. For his part, he placed the utmost reliance on the committee of secrecy, and on the report which they had made. The main cause of the disaffection which had appeared, arose from the distresses of the country: but though he admitted that the people had borne their sufferings with great fortitude, it was necessary to save them from the effects of their own phrenzy. He should, therefore, vote for the bill.Colonel Stanhope
 proposed an amendment, with the approbation of lord Castlereagh, to leave out the words "six weeks after the meeting of parliament," to insert as the term of the bill the 1st of March, 1818. On this a further amendment was proposed by Mr. Wynn, to substitute the 25th of December, 1817. The House divided on the question "that the 1st of March do stand part of the bill," Ayes, 152. Noes, 50. The Bill was then passed.Mr. S. Wortley
1206 did not believe the petitioner was more harshly treated than other prisoners under the same charges. As a proof of the kind treatment of such prisoners, he had to mention, that Mr. Watson bad written a very becoming
1206Mr. Addington
 said, that although he had voted for this measure three months ago, he felt himself bound in conscience to oppose the present bill, especially from a review of the reports of the committees who recommended the enactment of the measure. In the first report, he observed that the head and front was the Spencean system; but in the last report, the existence of this system was not at all alluded to. The hon. member animadverted in a strain of ridicule upon the report of the last committee, particularly with respect to the alleged conspiracy at Manchester, and the riots in London.Mr. Warre
"Whate'er is best administered is best.""For forms of government let fools contest,1218 could not help regarding the danger to the state, upon the alleged existence of which the bill was principally founded, as a ridiculous phantom. He could discover in it no reason for depriving the country of the best security for the possession of its liberties, and without which every other security was an idle and useless provision. So long as the power of tearing him from his family, without a cause assigned, was vested in any man, it was an insult and a mockery to talk to him of the blessings of our free constitution. He should prefer to live under martial Jaw rather than under a suspension of the Habeas Corpus act. The duration of martial law would probably be short, but the continuance of the present measure was necessarily uncertain. He should feel himself a freer man living under martial law than under a deprivation of the right to a trial by jury. This was the great right that distinguished, in his opinion, a British subject from a subject of the dey of Algiers. The chief cause of the existing evil was a state of general distress; and severe distress never could be felt without producing some degree of discontent. An argument had been drawn in favour of this measure from the personal character of the minister to whom such extraordinary authority was to be intrusted. Without entering into that inquiry, he must declare, that this was not an English consideration. It was by a jealousy of, and not a confidence in, the executive government, that the balance of our free constitution must be maintained. The boast of Englishmen had always been, not that ministers would not, but that they could not disturb the personal liberty of any individual. The abominable sentiment, as versified by one of our favourite poets, seemed to be the
"Whate'er is best administered is best.""For forms of government let fools contest,1218Mr. Barham
 could not imagine that any person would dare to bring forward such specific charges if they were not true. The secretary and the under-secretary were respectable men; but he wished to know, as to one single fact, whether any one person was, for the sake of security, put in irons. When the House was about to pass a law, suspending the Habeas Corpus, what security could they have against the most flagrant abuses of such a terrible power? It was the bounden duty of the tight hon. gentleman to inquire and to know when such extraordinary powers were claimed by the secretary of state.Mr. Barham
1219 said, it was with painful anxiety, and after a laborious inquiry into the facts and circumstances upon which this measure was founded, that he rose to give it his support. It was not before he had gone through a long examination of the subject, that his mind had arrived at the conviction that the bill was the dictate of a necessary and even of a humane policy. The whole subject resolved itself into two questions; first, as to the existence of the danger, and secondly, as to the propriety of the remedy. He had the admission of an hon. member, who had been vehement in his opposition to the bill, that the existing danger was great, that the leaders of the disaffected, if not formidable from their property—or rank, were important from the possession of popular talents and great energy of character. A right hon. gentleman had expressed his doubts with regard to the extent of the evil; but he would ask him whether he did not believe that this measure must operate as an engine of powerful and salutary intimidation against those to whom alone it was likely to be applied? He supported it because he deemed it a debt of justice which parliament was bound to pay, as a necessary security for the lives and properties of their fellow-citizens. He did not believe the conspirators had it in their power to overturn the constitution, but it did not follow that they might not have produced serious and irreparable mischief. The destruction of a populous town, or the desolation of a cultivated district were evils of no trifling magnitude.—
1219Dr. Phillimore
 said, that the noble secretary of state was an amiable and good man; but he was imposed upon by vile miscreants, deserving of a halter rather than of a pension. Mention had been, made of transactions in Ireland under lord Hardwicke. He had then said that the lord-lieutenant was imposed upon, and so it afterwards turned out. In a committee appointed to inquire into the facts, it appeared that the conduct of Dr. Trevor, the superintendant, was such, that he ought to have been hanged a hundred times over. Yet this man was now on the pension list.Mr. Peter Moore
1229122812271226 perfectly agreed with the noble lord in one sentiment which he had uttered, namely; that he would rather see the country revolutionized than enslaved; but the way to prevent the country from being enslaved was, in his opinion, to adopt such protecting measures as that under consideration. If those who thought with him were accused of exaggerating facts, and placing every thing in too strong colours, on the other hand, it surely could not be said that the noble lord had understated his case. He had never undervalued the benefit of the Habeas Corpus act, and would not consent to its suspension without the strongest reason; but he could not concur with the member for Bristol, and others, in supposing that any difference between the two reports afforded a reason for not adopting the present bill. If their opinion were founded on the idea that the conspiracy described in the first
1229122812271226Mr. Lamb
 did not rise to contradict the right hon. gentleman, for he had only said that there could be nothing of such seventy by the orders of the secretary of state. He could believe that, and yet believe the complaint of the petition to be well founded. In the case of a lord-lieutenant of a neighbouring country (lord Hardwicke), he had known a similar contradiction. He had then papers put into his hand alleging the greatest cruelty to have been exercised towards prisoners: he could not believe that the lord-lieutenant could have sanctioned such acts, but he had no confidence in the tender mercies of the gaolers of that unhappy country. He had since known, from unquestionable authority, that the facts were true, and that the persons concerned deserved to be brought to condign punishment. In the same manner he could believe that the facts here were true, though the secretary of state had not sanctioned them.Mr. W. Smith
1249 would not have troubled the House, but for a sort of call made upon him by the hon. baronet, who was greatly mistaken if he thought that the sarcasms he had used did not rather injure himself than others. It was not always those who talked the loudest and the longest about their love and admiration of the constitution that were the most sincere in their professions, and he could assure the hon. baronet and those for whose good opinion he was more solicitous, that he had painfully and reluctantly brought his mind to consent to the measure before the House. In the present circumstances of the country, it appeared to him, that it would be most dangerous when parliament was dismissed, to set at large those who had long been employed in spreading poison that had already attacked the vitals of the constitution, he could scarcely believe it possible, that even the hon. baronet should speak with levity of the first report, which showed undeniably that the feelings of Englishmen had been so perverted, that they could now look without blenching at the most horrid crimes; that private assassination was become familiar to them; and that they did not even shrink from assassination for hire. Were these principles which could be circulated without danger? If any fear could be entertained of the establishment of absolute power in this country, it would arise from that very source; other times and other countries proved it; and if any man, or any body of men, wished to make a tyrant firm upon
1249Mr. Wilberforce
1250 rose for the purpose of entering his solemn protest against the passing of this bill. A noble lord (Nugent) had asserted that he would rather witness popular commotion than the enslavement of his country, and the observation had been cheered as inconsistent with a due regard for the constitution; but in confirmation of the sentiment he begged to refer to a speech of a man whose name was coupled not only with the liberty but the glory of his country—the great lord Chatham, who, in a speech delivered in 1770, had used these remarkable words: "It was the duty of that House to inquire into the causes of the notorious dissatisfaction expressed by the whole English nation, to state those causes to their sovereign, and then to give him their best advice in what manner he ought to act. The privileges of the greatest and the meanest subjects stood upon the same foundation: it was therefore their highest interest as well as their bounden duty, to watch over and protect the rights of the people. The liberty of the subject," said he, "is invaded, not only in our distant provinces, but at
1250Sir Godfrey Webster
 said he was not much acquainted with Scotch law, and he was not extremely desirous, from what he had heard of it, of being better acquainted with it. He was sorry to say, however, that the statement of the learned lord had not given that satisfaction to him which it seemed to have done to those around him. The learned lord thought he had been unfairly dealt with in being allowed to wait so long without following up the charge against him. Really he did not know the learned lord was so soon to return to Scotland; and when the House were discussing the important question, whether the people of England were to be deprived of their liberties, he did not think that that important business ought to stand still, for the sake of bringing forward a charge against the learned lord.Sir S. Romilly
 contended, that the operation of the bill would shake instead of extend credit, generally speaking. It would serve the purpose of money-lenders admirably, who, he feared, would be the only persons benefited.General Mitchell
 suggested to the learned member, to whom he thought the country indebted, in thus bringing forward the proposition in a tangible form, that it would be more advisable to grant an extension of time for its due consideration.Lord Castlereagh
l1269 opposed the bill. It implied that the conduct of Grand Juries had been improper, which he would never admit. The measure ought to be postponed, and to be brought forward after it should have been more naturally considered next session. It was an enactment
l1269Sir F. Flood
1270 thought the bill a most important measure. He would support it, because he conceived it to be calculated to promote the domestic prosperity and welfare of Ireland. It was in the first place a remedy for the abuse of oaths. He read from the evidence given by Mr. V. Fitzgerald before the committee, a statement, showing that perjuries as to roads and presentments were so familiar, that they were not regarded as so criminal as other perjuries. In the second place, this measure would operate against the spirit of jobbing, which at present prevailed in grand juries. The other great advantage of the bill respected the manner of conducting business by grand juries. At present it was utterly impossible for grand juries to get through their business. He again read from the evidence of the right hon. gentleman a conversation he had had with the present solicitor-general for Ireland, by which it appeared, that in the county of Tipperary the grand jury were obliged to sit thirteen hours every day: and although no criminal indictment, and no cases connected with the judicial administration, were considered by them, they could bestow only two minutes upon each presentment. The bill went to correct this evil, by establishing a previous investigation at quarter-sessions by persons whose knowledge, experience, and local information, qualified them to investigate fully the necessity of any measure proposed. A great collateral advantage would be, that the character, weight, and authority of quarter-sessions would be raised. It was well-known that the quarter-session was generally held by a person called the barrister-assistant. No opportunity of traversing any bill was given till 1 or 2 in the morning; and then there was such a multitude of bills passing through the hands of the judge, that it was impossible to know whether the one to be traversed was passed or not. He would appeal to the House whether it was fitting that the people should be taxed to support such a system. It was the indispensable duty of the House to interfere.
1270Mr. Abercrombie
1275l1274127312721271 expressed his sincere regret in feeling himself obliged to oppose any measure brought forward by his right hon. friend (Mr. V. Fitzgerald); but he conceived the present bill so entirely inadequate to its professed purposes of amending, whilst it was totally subversive of the principle and system of the existing grand jury laws, that he could not give his assent to it. The execution of county works, particularly roads and bridges by grand jury presentment, had contributed to the improvement of Ireland, by throwing open ready communications through bogs, mountains, and fastnesses, from the interior to her shores in every direction, which would not have been perfected by any other system for one hundred years to come, and to which agriculture, commerce, and civilization have been greatly indebted; it is therefore neither wise nor just to revile and subvert a system which has worked so much benefit to Ireland, and it becomes matter of surprise that his right hon. friend, after the evidence which he himself has given before the committee up stairs, should so completely omit to model this bill upon that opinion, so strongly expressive of the respectability of the grand jurors generally of Ireland, and of the importance of retaining to them their influence in the presentment system, whilst this measure is calculated to render them insignificant cyphers.—Previous to the present king's reign, roads, & c. were executed under the provisions of various statutes from the beginning of James 1st reign, regulating what was termed the six days labour of the parish; but by the 5th of the present king all former road acts were repealed, and grand jury presentments from that period came into regular practice: after a course of above thirty years (various road acts having been passed), an entire revision of them took place in 1796, which ended in their repeal, and all the useful provisions with many excellent amendments were embodied into one law, in which code is to be found the principle of every good regulation for the present-
1275l1274127312721271Sir George Hill
1276 thought it would be infinitely better to reject the measure altogether, than to hold out delusive hopes to Ireland by the formal adjournment of its consideration to another session. The House must be fully prepared to decide upon the merits of this question. Why, then, postpone the decision? The objections of his right hon. friend to the powers which this bill proposed to confer upon the nobility and clergy of Ireland were, in his opinion, quite untenable. For what could be more reasonable than that clergymen, being magistrates and having property, should, as well as the Irish nobility, who had so large a stake in the country, have a right to interpose upon the subject of presentments for public works? As to his right hon. friend's suggestion, that the consideration of presentments should rather take place at the summer than at the spring
1276Mr. Peel
1277 cordially concurred in the general principles of the bill. He admitted the importance of carefully controlling the branch of the public expenditure which was vested in the hands of grand juries. In the form of the oath, however, he disliked a statutable declaration, and would rather prefer an alteration in the old oath to any other mode of proceeding. A late excellent friend of his (Mr. Horner) had entered deeply into the state of the grand jury laws in Ireland. One of his bills had been most usefully acted upon in Ireland. He had seen its value in the county which he had the honour to represent. The business of the grand jury was performed with regularity and dispatch, and the common people appeared perfectly satisfied with the form of examination observed in finding bills of indictment. What that bill did in one department of judicial investigation, he was satisfied this bill would do in stopping the jobbing system of civil expenditure. To the clause for the appointment of county surveyors, he strongly objected. He was afraid it would be made a matter of political aptronage, and local purposes thereby effected through the medium of such an office of a very different nature from those which were assigned to it by its constitution. The surveyor was to be in the place of the conservator, who was got rid of because the office was found not to be of the slightest possible use; and this office would he was convinced, be found equally useless, though perhaps in its operation productive of" more harm. As to the qualifications for the individual to fill the office, he certainly ought to have no local connexion, or be a native of the county where his official duties as a surveyor should be stationed. In the previous investigation
1277Mr. Ponsonby
 approved of the alteration in the time of arranging the presentments; but objected to the appointment of surveyors.Sir N. Colthurst
 vindicated the general principle of the bill, as calculated to do more good to Ireland, than any measure that had been adopted since the Union. He should be prepared, on the third reading, with a clause to qualify the oath to be taken by grand jurors. With respect to the proposed appointment of county surveyors, he felt assured it never could degenerate into a political job.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 said, it was highly necessary there should be some public officer, whose duty it should be to take care that the money levied by the grand jury was properly expended. The bill was a most important one with respect to the good it would do in Ireland.Sir H. Parnell
 considered this proposition one of too great moment to the mercantile and landed interest, to pass into a law, without giving the subject the most elaborate investigation. Where were the reasons on which this bill was founded? The probable effect it would have on the money market, and the different species of government stock, was of too much interest to be sanctioned by the legislature, without scrutinizing into what those consequences or efforts might be. He therefore suggested the propriety of not pressing the bill through the further stages, as he feared that at present neither the House nor the public were prepared to treat the subject as it deserved.Mr. Calcraft
1268 said, the proper question to be asked on this bill was, not that which his hon. friend had put, namely, where were the reasons on which this bill for repealing the usury laws was founded; but this question, where were the reasons upon which the continuance of these laws could be justified? If the reasons upon which these laws were originally considered to be expedient were carefully examined, they would be found to depend upon such doctrines concerning the nature and use of money as belonged to the darkest periods of the most ignorant times; and particularly to those ages when the principles of commercial policy were wholly unknown. The value of capital employed in extending industry among the people, or in adding to the public wealth by the profitable use of it, had not been thought of, when the lending it for a fair remuneration was set down as a gross abuse in favour of the rich, and to the prejudice of the poor. It would be found upon a careful examination of the subject, that there was not one of those grounds on which the usury laws were founded, which is not altogether at variance with all those principles which the wisest authorities have laid down as the true principles of trade. Yet it is no doubt true, that some of those who are the most ready to acknowledge the full value of their principles, cannot bring themselves to apply them to the care of the usury laws. If the taking of interest for money is viewed in its proper light, it consists in a bargain between the lender and the borrower, which is exactly of the same nature as all other bargains. The borrower finds it his advantage to take the lender's money, and to give a fair remuneration for it; and the lender is induced to confer this advantage, if the remuneration is sufficient to repay him for the value of his money, and the risk he incurs in placing it out of his power. It is this circumstance, that he must secure not only a sum which shall be a sufficient one for the actual use of his money, but also for the risk he runs, which renders it quite impossible to fix a rate of interest which shall suit all cases; for both the actual value of money and the risk incurred vary according to so many circumstances, that no fixed rate can ever be devised which shall not operate to the injury of either the borrower or the lender. When the great importance of the free should have been more maturely const circulation of capital to all kinds of trade
1268Sir H. Parnell
 asked the right hon. gentleman, whom he saw in his place, whether he was now prepared to give any answer as to the petition he had presented from Mr. Evans?Mr. Bennet
1281 said, he did present a petition formerly from Mr. Evans, but he had not known on Friday last, and did not know-now, that it was the identical petition with respect to which there was a complaint of its not having been forwarded. As to the other points, the right hon. gentleman had advocated, but had neither denied nor explained them. He knew not whether other prisoners had been treated with the same severity, but he knew that Mr. Evans was put first in Coldbath-fields prison, into the same room and bed with a felon. The younger Evans was put into the hospital-room, with six unhealthy felons. He had gone to visit Evans on Monday last, but was refused permission; he then requested to be allowed, at least, to see the arcade, which was granted. In going up the stairs he would admit that he did steal a look into those dungeons; he did not see Mr. Evans, but he saw Mr. Pilkington, in precisely the same kind of room as Evans. He asked if it was the same, and was answered it was precisely. There he saw this unhappy man, this innocent individual, pacing the room up and down. It was a place for convicts between the time of sentence and that of execution. It was not a place of confinement, but a place of punishment. With the felon's punishment he had also the felon's fare. There was a truckle bed, a pail for water, a table, and a chair. The right hon. gentleman had not said that Evans had any fire. He would appeal to the common principles of humanity, whether Mr. Evans who was author of the pamphlet on the Spencean doctrines, should be excluded from all means of literary gratification. However, ludicrous those doctrines were, it was evident he was a literary person. It
1281Mr. Bennet
12801279, as it seemed to be the wish of the House, to hear an explanation of the complaints in Mr. Evans's petition, acknowledged that he was now prepared to give a much more satisfactory answer than he could have given on the day that the petition was presented. It had been then argued, that all in the petition must be true; and even an hon. gentleman had gone so far as to say, that he would submit a motion on the subject if a satisfactory explanation should not be given. He might consider himself absolved by the notice of such a motion, from giving any explanation till the motion was made; but he was now willing to explain all the complaints in the petition. He had stated his utter incredulity as to the charges in the petition; he had expressed himself sure that most of the facts were not true, and confident that many of them were quite unfounded. First of all, as to the petition said to have been withheld, he had felt confident that his noble relation, the secretary of state, was not capable of so great an abuse as deliberately keeping a petition from any subject from reaching the walls of that House. He had been quite sure that his noble relation had not withheld it; first, because he knew his feelings were such as would never endure such an act; secondly, because a similar petition from a Mr. Knight, in Reading gaol, had been forwarded; and thirdly, because the solicitor for Mr. Evans was instantly, on his requesting it, granted leave to see him, and to prepare a petition
12801279Mr. Addington
 expressed himself dissatisfied with the explanation of the right hon. gentleman, and declared his intention of bringing forward his motion tomorrow.Mr. Barham
 never accused the gaoler of harsh conduct or gratuitous severity, for he had never heard any thing of him but what was to his credit; but the question had no reference to the particular character of an individual, but to the general system of treating prisoners confined under the suspension act. The right hon. gentleman had contradicted no material fact of the petition but one—that regarding the refusal of pen, ink, and paper. This he had denied; but he believed the right hon. gentleman was mis-informed. The pleasure which the prisoners were said to enjoy in a fine view of the Surry hills was now given up. The next allegation was, that they were not supplied with light; and the defence set up against this charge was, that they were, so far as the rules of the prison would permit. The right hon. gentleman had spoken about an arcade in which they were allowed to walk; but, if he had himself gone, as he ought to have done, and examined this arcade, he would have found that it was merely a narrow passage, into which the doors of the prison cells opened. In all those cases the rules of the prison were thought a sufficient apology for the treatment these prisoners endured; but if ministers suspended the liberties of the people and threw men into prison on suspicion they ought to correct these rules so far a their treatment was concerned. If ministers proceeded with their new system o imprisoning, they should build new prisons, and not treat the victims of their power like the common disturbers of society.Mr. Bennet
12901289 had never heard a charge more completely disproved than the present; nor had ever seen a case that appeared more completely trumped up to deceive the public, and to excite odium against the government. With regard to the petition which was alleged to have been sent to the secretary of state's office, and there detained, the person who had made such an accusation, or who authorized it to be made, must have known that he was advancing a direct falsehood. Mr. Evans himself could not have known whether his first petition was presented or not; but his solicitor, Mr. Harmer, who drew up the second, and who made the detention of the first one of its alleged acts of oppression, could not have been ignorant of the fact. He therefore must have been conscious, that in allowing that
12901289Mr. Stuart Worthy
1291 observed, that the hon. gentleman who spoke last had declared, that he had voted for the suspension act from a love of the constitution—that was, from a love for the liberty of the subject; and yet, when a subject deprived of his liberty complained to that House of injustice and oppression, the hon. gentleman angrily deprecated his conduct, because the application for redress was not made to the very persons to whose system the complaint referred. He would vote for having the petition referred to a committee for the purpose of inquiry, because the statements in that petition presented prima facie grounds for parliamentary investigation; and he could not be dissuaded from thinking that such an investigation should take place, by any of the testimonies which the House had heard with respect to the character of the gaoler; for he could not forget, that when he formerly submitted charges of a similar nature against a person, he was met by the most confident assertions and the most lofty eulogiums upon the person to whom his charges referred. He would not impute any criminality to the gaoler of the prison in Horsemonger-lane, for he knew nothing of the man, therefore such an imputation would be neither fair nor liberal; but was it fair or liberal in the last speaker, to impute falsehood to a man in a dungeon? Was not such an imputation indeed utterly unwarrantable, while the hon. gentleman himself admitted that it was wantonly cruel to deprive this unfortunate prisoner of his flute? But to return to the complaint which he had on a former occasion brought forward with respect to the conduct of a gaoler, he felt strongly its analogy to the case under consideration, for
1291Sir F. Burdett
1292 did not mean to use the description objected to ironically, but distinctively, and in order to mark the character which was known to belong to the hon. member alluded to. That hon. member was, it would be recollected, among those who were imposed upon with regard to the character of Aris, and therefore testified to that which he presumed he would now be ready to admit was quite erroneous. Mr. Wilberforce Bird was one of the members of the committee to whom the complaints respecting Coldbath-fields were referred, and he recollected that hon. gentleman to have stated a fact with respect to Aris, which was quite equal, if not superior, in cruelty, to the old story of the destruction of the spider in the cell of a prisoner in the French Bastile. A prisoner who was confined for 13 or 14 months in a cell in Coldbath-fields, which was only S feet long—by 6 feet wide, was still loaded with irons. A robin, which had got into the cell through the grate, was the unhappy man's only companion and consolation. This robin was, indeed, so familiar, that it was not disturbed, or would not leave the cell, on the appearance of the turnkeys, who daily brought the prisoner his provisions. But Aris himself happening one day to accompany the person who delivered the pro-visions, he seized the poor robin and crushed it to death; and the prisoner declared in tears to Mr. Wilberforce Bird, that this event inflicted a more severe pang upon his feelings, than could have been produced by the death of all his relations. Such
1292Sir F. Burdett
1293 submitted to the House, whether this case was one into which it was incumbent on them to institute an inquiry. To allege, that individuals in the unfortunate circumstances of the petitioner, were exposed to the possibility of hardship, was rather an argument against the suspension bill itself, than an inducement for going into this committee. He admitted, that persons confined under the powers of that act ought to be treated with all the indulgence that was consistent with their situation; but the reasons urged
1293Lord Castlereagh
1287 said, that knowing formerly the treatment of the prisoners, the discipline of the gaol, and the conduct of the gaoler, he was surprised at the accounts that had gone abroad under the sanction of the petition. He had therefore made a point of going to the prison that morning, for the purpose of satisfying himself of the foundation of these accounts. He had seen and conversed with all the prisoners, who all concurred in stating that they had no complaints to
1287Mr. B. Shaw
 stated the prison to have been visited by three magistrates of the county, subsequent to the committal of the prisoners: Mr. Young and Mr. Laing were of the number. They visited the cells without any objection being made to their doing so. Evans complained of having been put in irons, which he said was grating to his feelings. He had been told this was contrary to the rule of the prison, unless it was ordered by the secretary of state. He (Mr. Sumner) had understood that the gaoler, as he was accustomed to put persons charged with felonies in irons, had conceived himself bound to take the same course with an individual who was charged with a still higher offence. The magistrates recommended the prisoner to present a memorial to the secretary of state; this was done, and the memorial immediately produced the desired effect. He bore testimony to the unexceptionable character of the gaoler. He described the dimensions of the prison; stated the prisoner to have been at liberty to send for his own furniture, and added, that this had formerly been done by Mr. L. Hunt, who was confined in the same apartment, and furnished as it was by him, he (Mr. S.) had never been in a more comfortable room in his life. Mr. Evans might have made it the same. With respect to fire, the prisoner had been restricted, not as to quantity, but as to time. If he had been deprived of his flute, other enjoyments were left to him. Pens, ink, and paper were allowed, and also books. He could not see that any blame attached to those by whom these matters were regulated.Mr. Sumner
 here rose to order, observing, that the hon. baronet had on a former evening applied the same description to a member of that House, when it escaped notice; but he submitted that such a description was not correct or parliamentary.Mr. S. Wortley
1286, in making a few observations on what had fallen from the hon. gentleman, would pass over the general topics on which he had touched, not from disrespect to the hon. gentleman, but because he was unwilling to occupy the time of the House longer than was absolutely necessary. Even if the hon. gentleman had not spoke in terms of so much praise, for which he felt grateful, of his noble relation and himself, he should have been the last person to suspect him of any personal hostility. He certainly could not, however, have expected complaints from him against his noble relation. As to the petition alleged to have been withheld from the House, he had proved to a demonstration, that it was not detained in the home-office. He had a receipt for it from Mr. Harmer, the solicitor for Mr. Evans. It was the only petition that ever came from him to the office. The other point which had been urged against the noble secretary was, that he ought to have been informed of the internal state of every prison. This, however, appeared an extraordinary assertion, that a secretary of state who was so ready to hear every complaint that might be sent to him, requiring a redress of grievances, should be compelled to make daily inquiries into the conduct of gaolers, and whether it was consistent with the orders prescribed to them? It was competent for the prisoner to make complaints, if his treatment had been improper, and the best answer to his own allegations was, that no complaint had ever been sent to the office. Pen, ink, and paper had never been refused to the prisoner, and if not able to write, he might have sent a verbal request by the gaoler; and the fact was, that Mr. Evans had actually sent one message to the office of the home department, by the gaoler of Coldbath prison, that his former petition should not be given to the members for Westminster, but to Mr. Harmer, his solicitor. Directions had been given to every gaoler to pay the strictest attention to the prisoners, and the secretary of state was ever open to their complaints.— Having thus exonerated the secretary of state from the clauses which had been
1286Mr. Addington
128512841283 said, that in bringing forward his motion, it was unnecessary for him to disclaim any feelings 'of personal hostility to the noble secretary for the home department, from whom, as well as from his right hon. relative, he had received his full share of civility. Neither did his motion originate in any general hostility to the measures which were proposed from the other side of the House, nor from any bias towards democratical opinions. The whole course of his parliamentary life would contradict such a supposition. He had always been of opinion that democratical or monarchical principles, pushed to their extent, would have probably in the end the same effect; that as the democratical principle, by unrestrained ascendancy, might destroy liberty by means of the subversion of the government, 60 the ascendancy of arbitrary power by destroying liberty, would cause the destruction of the government. He had once thought fit to support the government, and by supporting it to support liberty itself against democratical power,
128512841283Mr. Barham
 said, that being appealed to, he must observe, that to describe any member in ironical terms was not consistent with parliamentary order; and the hon. baronet must be aware that such a mode of designation was not agreeable to the usual practice of the House.The Speaker
lll1296 said, that when a case of great distress was laid before the House, it was not a very agreeable task to object to any specific proposition for relieving it. But, he should ill discharge his duty, if he did not state to the House the grounds on which he considered this proposition to be an ill advised one. The hon. gentleman only recommended a bounty to be given for one year. The merchants did not want the bounty for one year, they wanted it for a term co-existent with the duration of the French bounty; and they wanted the removal of at least 15 or 20,000 persons. But where were these persons to be sent to? The far greater part of them came from Ireland. But there were cases of distress in Ireland at this moment infinitely beyond any thing that had been reported of Newfoundland. Were they to be sent home to Ireland, to be supported there, God knows how? Were they to be sent to Canada and Nova Scotia? The harvest was very bad there last year; and it would only be aggravating the distress in Canada to send them there. Government were asked to do in this case more than perhaps it would have been wise to undertake. If the merchants moved 1,000 of the people to Canada, government agreed
lll1296Mr. Robinson
, although he admitted, to as great an extent as any one, the wisdom of the generally received principles of political economy regarding bounties, thought there were grounds laid in the report sufficient to warrant a slight departure from them in this instance. He did not think that we should enter into a contest with France in a line of promoting commerce by means confessedly impolitic; but he confessed that, in his opinion, the report had made out sufficient grounds for granting assistance for one year, at least to those engaged in this trade.Mr. Canning
1298 agreed, that this question was purely one of humanity; and that the only thing to be considered was, what relief could be granted, and how the grant could be most beneficially applied. He did not think that relief should be administered in the way of bounty to the trade, as much more direct methods of applying any assistance to the suffering inhabitants easily occurred. He had heard it stated, that government was obliged to support the people of that colony. But government did not encourage their emigration, and could not be accountable for their fate. Every mode of relieving their sufferings, however, would be resorted to government had already extended relief
1298The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l thought that, in case of such distress, our finances were not so exhausted as to prevent us from extending relief, if only 65,000lMr. Baring
 said, that a strong case of distress and threatened famine was made out; and if ministers, after being warned of the evils that might ensue, took no means to guard against them, and to protect these unhappy people from starvation, they would incur a heavy responsibility.Mr. Protheroe
s1295ll1294 said, the House would recollect, on his submitting a motion to them for the appointment of a select committee to inquire into the state of the Trade of Newfoundland, he had mentioned, as the ground of the motion, the heavy distress which that trade was labouring under, from difficulties of a pecuniary nature, and the melancholy state of the island of Newfoundland itself, in consequence of the difficulties of the traders. He had stated that a large population were actually in a state of famine,—that the warehouses of the merchants were broken into by a starving people,—that the capital was in such a state that it was impossible to afford any protection to property,—and that unless some relief should be afforded by the House and by the government of the country to this calamity, the horrors of the ensuing winter would be aggravated in an inconceivable degree. A committee had accordingly been appointed, and no person could read the report without agreeing that the circumstances detailed in it went much beyond any thing he had previously stated to the House. The evidence before the committee was given by merchants of great eminence—men who had great capital employed in the trade. One unanimous determination ran through the evidence of every merchant, that unless the House gave them some relief, the losses in carrying on the trade were so great that they could no longer continue their capital in it. It was necessary to tell the House that Newfoundland in itself was totally unproductive-—that its whole supply, excepting the article of fish, was carried out from this country. Formerly, there was hardly any resident population on the island.
s1295ll1294Mr. M. A. Taylor
 would support a grant to these sufferers, but he thought relief in the shape of a bounty was not the most eligible course.Mr. Newman
1297 was aware that the question here could properly be nothing but one of humanity, and he could not but regret that it was attempted to be introduced under the protection of some mistaken principles of political economy that were now universally exploded. The method in which the relief sought was to be applied, was by giving a bounty to encourage the trade—a policy now universally condemned. If the question was purely one of humanity, it should have
1297Mr. F. Lewis
 was favourable to the motion. The distressed people must have employment if possible, otherwise they must be left to starve.Mr. W. Douglas
 having moved the farther consideration of the report of this bill, Mr. S. Wortley proposed that it should be postponed till next session, as there was no possible chance that it could meet with a fair discussion this year.Mr. Bennet
1299 said, that from the sort of interested opposition which had been raised against this measure by many persons in the House, as well as by brewers and others out of doors, he had not the smallest hope of being able to carry through the measure this session, but he anxiously wished, before the recess, that this subject should have been fully discussed, that the country might have seen what sort of arguments could be urged against it. For his own part, he should put in his protest, in the name of the morals of the people
1299Mr. Bennet
1304 bore testimony to
1304Mr. Serjeant Onslow
llllll1305s presented another report of the committee on the Police of the Metropolis. The committee he stated, had made great progress in the discharge of the duty committed to it, though a considerable part of it still remained unfinished. The committee had classified its labours under different heads. The first of those was, the system of licencing public houses, its opinions on which were already before the House. The report which he had now to present related to the system of rewards on convictions, commonly called blood-money; to the increase of juvenile delinquency, and the transportation system. As to the system of rewards, or blood-money, the witnesses had been unanimously of opinion that it ought to be abolished; instances had been adduced in which persons had forsworn themselves for the sake of the rewards. In the last year there had been three trials for conspiracies to produce convictions for the sake of the rewards; and to show the extent to which the system of obtaining these rewards had gone, it was stated that officers had made a practice of swearing persons to be vagrants, for the parliamentary reward of 10llllll1305sMr. Bennet
 presumed, that the object of the motion had been effected by the opportunity it presented the two hon. baronets of making their statements. He defended the conduct of the member for Yarmouth, who had, he firmly believed, been influenced by the most conscientious motives.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
1303 said, that the report from the committee on the late accidents in Steam Vessels, had proved that these conveyances would always be liable to similar accidents, if not subjected to regulations. The accident at Norwich, which had occasioned the death of eleven persons, had been shown to have originated in the bad construction of the boiler, and the obstinacy of a person who persisted in loading
1303Mr. Harvey
lll brought up the report of the committee on the Education of the Poor. He said, that the report contained a description of many enormous abuses attending the management and application of charitable funds. One instance he had mentioned on a former occasion, which was that of a rector, who was principal of a school, with a salary of 1,500lllMr. Brougham
l bore testimony to the extraordinary zeal and diligence evinced by the hon. chairman of the committee who was entitled to the thanks of the country at large. He hoped the subjects of the report would be taken up in another session. An instance had come to his knowledge, in which, for the purpose of obtaining the parliamentary reward of 80lMr. Butterworth
132013191318 apologized for offering a few observations, more especially as it could not be the desire of members, in the present state of the House, nor of himself, to prolong any debate upon the Catholic question; but there were some points in the speech of the hon. baronet, who had made the present motion, which he apprehended were so incorrect, that they might make a wrong impression if left without observation. Mr. B. did not rise to defend the printed speech of the hon. member for Yarmouth, who was most able to defend himself, but every one who knew that gentleman, must be persuaded, that his love of truth would never allow him to state in a speech, and much less in print, any facts, or to make any assertions, which he did not believe to be true; and that hon. gentleman's judgment and accuracy, were such as to render him very unlikely to make any incorrect statements. But Mr. B. rose, chiefly to notice some misrepresentations made by the hon. baronet, respecting the Hibernian schools, and the British and Foreign Bible societies. With regard to the former, the hon. baronet had described them as greatly countenanced by the Roman Catholic priests, of whom he had spoken in such
132013191318Mr. Butterworth
 rose, not to oppose the motion, but to complain of the unfair and disingenuous manner in which the hon. mover had undertaken to reply to the speech of his hon friend, the member for Yarmouth, during his absence. His hon. friend had attended sedulously to his business in parliament for a considerable period after the speech had been printed and published, and ii would have been more candid had the hon. baronet replied to it while his hon. friend was present.Sir G. Hill
131313121311dddsddsdsdddsdsd1310130913081307 rose to move for certain papers, relative to the courses of education pursued at the College of Maynooth. He felt it his duty to move for these papers, in consequence of some observations upon this college, contained in a note in a printed speech of an hon. member (Mr. J. L. Foster) and also in order to have an opportunity of refuting, in the most public manner, many charges, which had of late been brought against the Catholics, and those who advocate their cause in parliament, in other printed speeches of members of both Houses, and in many other publications. It was the more necessary to take this step before the session closed, because the perseverance and activity with which it was attempted to revive exploded calumnies against the Catholics and their religion, if suffered to remain unnoticed, would, no doubt, contribute very much to establish much erroneous opinion respecting them, and so far to defeat the object which every true friend of this country ought to have the most at heart, namely, the complete union of all religious sects in one common cause, for the support
131313121311dddsddsdsdddsdsd1310130913081307Sir H. Parnell
 said, that the topics on which he had animadverted were not contained in the speech which the hon. member had made in the Catholic debate, but in the notes which he had published with that speech. His object in referring to that speech at all was to show the grounds on which he called for information respecting the course of studies pursued at Maynooth. He begged to notice the unfair way in which an hon. member had selected passages from the book he had just quoted, tending to show that the Catholic clergy were hostile to the schools of the Hibernian society. For if the hon. member had read a whole page, instead of half a one, he would have found, that though they were at first, in some instances, hostile to them, they had ultimately become the warmest supporters of them.Sir H. Parnell
1317131613151314ll seconded the motion; and, observing, that the subject was one of the greatest importance to the interests of the empire at large, he lamented the absence of the noble secretary of state, of the right hon. the secretary of Ireland, of the hon. member for Yarmouth, and above all, the incalculable loss of one removed from them by the high dispensations of Providence (Mr. Ponsonby), whose eulogy he would not attempt to pronounce, but whose fate he might be permitted to deplore. The question was not, whether they should grant 9,0001317131613151314llSir J. C. Hippisley
1306 hoped that the important matters contained in the report would receive the serious consideration of the House. It would be a reproach to parliament if some steps were not taken to remedy the abuses which had been pointed out. As to the subject of transportation, it should be remarked how
1306Sir S. Romilly
1321 inquired of the noble lord opposite, whether the Mr. George Manners, whose
1321Mr. Broughham
 declared, that he had no knowledge that the individual in question had been subjected to any prosecution whatever.Lord Castlereagh
1331 complimented his hon. friend on his steady perseverance in the great cause in which he had so distinguished himself. He assured him that ministers were fully disposed to second him, and had not slept at their posts. Entirely concurring with him, that till arrangements were formed for carrying into complete effect the abolition by all the powers of Europe, the measure would not be productive of that good which the humane policy of this country and the benevolent views of the other powers expected from it, government was stimulated to every exertion for procuring the consent of the only two states that now exclusively conducted the traffic. Much had already been done by this country, much had been done by congress, and much had been done by those two powers themselves; but while one state still disgraced its flag by carrying on so cruel a trade, the evils of the system would be partially increased, and rendered more cruel and atrocious by being combined with resistance and piracy. Ministers had been active in negociations, not only with the governments of Portugal and Spain, but with the other powers who signed the treaty of Paris, and who exerted themselves towards the accomplishment of the same object. He felt a difficulty in entering on the subject, as he could not state the progress already made in coming towards an understanding with the two reluctant powers, without a danger of prejudicing pending negociations; while, at the same time, he allowed that parliament had a right to know all that could safely be disclosed. He would not therefore at present enter into the subject but he hoped that, by the beginning of
1331Lord Castlereagh
sllll1336 was of opinion, that the suggestion of prohibiting the colonial produce of Spain and Portugal, would, if
sllll1336Mr. Marryat
1352llsuppositionsupposesupposingll1,906,500Making together
1,906,500Making together1,660,000And charge for the navy debt
1,660,000And charge for the navy debt246,500January, 1816,
246,500January, 1816,
1,906,500Making together
1,906,500Making together1,660,000And charge for the navy debt
1,660,000And charge for the navy debt246,500January, 1816,
246,500January, 1816,13511350llllllllll1349llllllllllll1348llllllll134764,141,537Total
64,141,537Total9,541,537And partly of money revenues amounting to
9,541,537And partly of money revenues amounting to54,600,000lThe Ways and Means voted for this year, amounting on the whole to 64,141,537l
54,600,000lThe Ways and Means voted for this year, amounting on the whole to 64,141,537l64,199,708
64,199,70822,137,808And partly of the sums granted for the current service of the year
22,137,808And partly of the sums granted for the current service of the year
64,141,537Total
64,141,537Total9,541,537And partly of money revenues amounting to
9,541,537And partly of money revenues amounting to54,600,000lThe Ways and Means voted for this year, amounting on the whole to 64,141,537l
54,600,000lThe Ways and Means voted for this year, amounting on the whole to 64,141,537l64,199,708
64,199,70822,137,808And partly of the sums granted for the current service of the year
22,137,808And partly of the sums granted for the current service of the year52,146,892We have
52,146,892We have42,061,900Adding this to the sum already stated
42,061,900Adding this to the sum already stated10,084,992
10,084,992
52,146,892We have
52,146,892We have42,061,900Adding this to the sum already stated
42,061,900Adding this to the sum already stated10,084,992
10,084,992ll42,061,900Total in supply
42,061,900Total in supply4,220,000And of Irish treasury bills do.
4,220,000And of Irish treasury bills do.37,841,900ing to
37,841,900ing to
42,061,900Total in supply
42,061,900Total in supply4,220,000And of Irish treasury bills do.
4,220,000And of Irish treasury bills do.37,841,900ing to
37,841,900ing to1346lllllllll1345lllll1344 jun. said, he was sure the House would do him the justice to believe, that he felt his incompetency to cope with the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down, on financial topics. In expressing his sense of this incompetency, he must offer his warmest thanks to the right hon. gentleman, for the very flattering terms, and the handsome manner, in which he had been pleased to speak of him. He should not detain the House, by entering into the general question of the financial situation of the country,—but in the few observations he had to submit, should confine himself to a statement of the points of difference between the resolutions of the right hon. gentleman, and his own; and of the reasons which made it, in his judgment, proper to move the previous question on the right hon. gentleman's resolutions, and to submit to the House, the resolutions which he should have the honor to propose.1352llsuppositionsupposesupposingll1,906,500Making together
1,906,500Making together1,660,000And charge for the navy debt
1,660,000And charge for the navy debt246,500January, 1816,
246,500January, 1816,
1,906,500Making together
1,906,500Making together1,660,000And charge for the navy debt
1,660,000And charge for the navy debt246,500January, 1816,
246,500January, 1816,13511350llllllllll1349llllllllllll1348llllllll134764,141,537Total
64,141,537Total9,541,537And partly of money revenues amounting to
9,541,537And partly of money revenues amounting to54,600,000lThe Ways and Means voted for this year, amounting on the whole to 64,141,537l
54,600,000lThe Ways and Means voted for this year, amounting on the whole to 64,141,537l64,199,708
64,199,70822,137,808And partly of the sums granted for the current service of the year
22,137,808And partly of the sums granted for the current service of the year
64,141,537Total
64,141,537Total9,541,537And partly of money revenues amounting to
9,541,537And partly of money revenues amounting to54,600,000lThe Ways and Means voted for this year, amounting on the whole to 64,141,537l
54,600,000lThe Ways and Means voted for this year, amounting on the whole to 64,141,537l64,199,708
64,199,70822,137,808And partly of the sums granted for the current service of the year
22,137,808And partly of the sums granted for the current service of the year52,146,892We have
52,146,892We have42,061,900Adding this to the sum already stated
42,061,900Adding this to the sum already stated10,084,992
10,084,992
52,146,892We have
52,146,892We have42,061,900Adding this to the sum already stated
42,061,900Adding this to the sum already stated10,084,992
10,084,992ll42,061,900Total in supply
42,061,900Total in supply4,220,000And of Irish treasury bills do.
4,220,000And of Irish treasury bills do.37,841,900ing to
37,841,900ing to
42,061,900Total in supply
42,061,900Total in supply4,220,000And of Irish treasury bills do.
4,220,000And of Irish treasury bills do.37,841,900ing to
37,841,900ing to1346lllllllll1345lllll1344Mr. Charles Grant
13541353l thought it would be unnecessary for him to trouble the House with a repetition of the arguments that had been so ably adduced by his hon. friend, especially as the right hon. gentleman opposite seemed to admit the grounds of his hon. friend's argument, except as to about 500,00013541353lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
1359sds1358 said, there could be no doubt, notwithstanding the delicacy which had been professed on the subject of touching the sinking fund, that, to all practical purposes, it was completely swept away.
1359sds1358Mr. Baring
1335 thought it right to observe, that whatever progress had been made in carrying the abolition into effect, none of the difficulties which had been experienced were attributable to those who had originally opposed it. On the contrary, many of them, both at home and in the West Indies, had been earnest and active in their endeavours to assist the
1335Mr. A. Browne
1342lll1341l1340ll1339llll1338lllllll1337ll rose, to call the attention of the House, to the Finance Resolutions which he had already moved, but the debate on which had been hitherto, from various circumstances unavoidably delayed. On this subject, he had in the first place to state to the House, that in the first of those resolutions he now found that a great mistake was committed on his part. It was therefore his intention to move that the first resolution be withdrawn, for the purpose of substituting another. The mistake to which he alluded arose from his not being aware that Irish treasury bills to the amount of above 4,000,0001342lll1341l1340ll1339llll1338lllllll1337llMr. Tierney
l13341333 would not have obtruded himself at all on the attention of the House, had it not been owing to the statement of his hon. friend, which, if it went forth to the country uncontradicted, might produce pernicious effects. His hon. friend had launched a most extraordinary charge against all the abolitionists, and against himself as one of them, as dealing in wholesale legislation. He did not understand the meaning of this epithet, when applied to laws for carrying the abolition into effect. In all legislation, the remedy should be co-extensive with the evil to be prevented, or the dangers apprehended. The laws on this subject proceeded no farther; they described the offence, and prescribed the punishment of it wherever found. To limit the punishment to a particular place, when the offence might be general, might, to follow the figure of his hon. friend, be retail legislation; but it would be partial and inefficient. If he meant that such laws should be partial, there was, undoubtedly, some foundation for his charge of enacting wholesale measures. The law of the 51st of the king, which he had the honour to introduce, had two objects in view: 1st.; to prevent trading in slaves, by declaring the act a felony any where within the British dominions; and, 2dly, to prevent trading in slaves by British subjects any where, either in the British dominions or not. To apply this law to the case mentioned by his hon. friend, it happened that Cooke and his associates had been engaged in the skive trade at Rio Pongas, which was beyond the limits of our colony of Sierra Leone. A military force was sent to observe their conduct, and to learn if; they were British subjects, with instructions to apprehend them if they were. The information they received was, that they were British subjects; and this was not contradicted till after their apprehension. Cooke was tried at Sierra Leone, and the judge, as had been stated, happen-
l13341333Mr. Brougham
 could assure the noble lord, from his own knowledge, that if that George Manners was the same as the editor of "The Satirist," he had been tried and imprisoned for slander. He admitted, at the same time, that the said Manners had always been in favour of the noble lord, and had supported his politics.Mr. Brougham
 expressed his satisfaction at hearing the accurate explanation made by the hon. and learned gentleman relative to the circumstances of colonel Maxwell's conduct. He rose for the purpose of stating, that government had already signified to that gentleman that the whole of the expenses incurred in the late trial would be defrayed by the public.Mr. Goulburn
 concurred in opinion with an hon. and learned gentleman that some international regulation could alone effectuate an entire abolition of the slave trade. If the noble lord, the proudest moment of whose life was when he procured from the principal sovereigns of Europe, in the congress at Vienna, a sentence of condemnation against this practice, should follow up that proceeding by some measure that might carry it into effect, the reputation of his name would be as lasting as the principles of humanity and justice.Mr. J. H. Smyth
 alluded to a charge against this country, which was sometimes gravely and sometimes sarcastically made by foreigners, and particularly by the French, of our being actuated by selfish motives in our exertions to procure a universal relinquishment of this trade; and of our having ceased to carry it on ourselves only when it was no longer necessary to our colonial interests. Bold as this accusation was, it was directly contrary to the fact; and it was rather singular, that at this moment the French West India colonies were more saturated with slaves than our own.Mr. Barham
 allowed, that, under all the circumstances of the case, the plan of the chancellor of the exchequer was the one which seemed most likely to be conducive to the interests of the public. The issue of exchequer bills was unquestionably preferable to a loan, since it enabled the commissioners for the reduction of the debt, with money which bore an interest of only 3 per cent. to extinguish an equivalent portion of debt bearing an interest of 4 per cent. There was a collateral advantage likewise, in this mode of proceeding still more important, namely, that it had a tendency to enhance the value of funded property; although he admitted, that, in that respect, there ought to be a limit to its effect. He also approved of the abstinence of the right hon. gentleman from proposing any additional burthens on the people for the purpose of carrying on the service of the year. The people had a right to demand, that while the country continued at peace, no new taxes should be levelled on them. Any attempt of that sort, indeed, would prove impracticable. He approved of the determination of the right hon. gentleman, under the present circumstances, to give no interruption to what was called the sinking fund. It was desirable to maintain that machinery, which, during the war, had certainly had the effect of keeping down the funded debt. But if it should ever be proposed to maintain it by increasing the funded debt, or in other words, to reduce one part of the funded debt by increasing the other, he should repeat those objections which he had formerly urged to a proceeding that must necessarily be wholly inoperative as it regarded the public interest, and advantageous only to the loan contractors. As to the resumption of cash payments by the Bank, he had never denied the probability of that resumption at the period alluded to; but had merely denied the assertion of the right hon. gentleman, that the payment in specie by the Bank of their small notes issued previously to January 1816, was virtual resumption of cash payments.Mr. Grenfell
ll1332 had no objection to the address of his hon. friend, and wished it all the success that he could hope from it. The noble lord now seemed to recommend to his hon. friend the advice which he gave him four years ago—to move for a committee. A committee always appeared to him the best mode of accomplishing what could be accomplished, and of realizing whatever could be realized. Though the evils of the slave trade were great and undeniable, yet he thought there was a drawback on the measure for carrying the abolition into effect. There had been a species of wholesale legislation on this subject, which had been productive of pernicious consequences. No control was established over those who seconded the zeal of the country in stopping this nefarious traffic; and the result was, that much individual oppression had been produced. He had presented a petition about three years ago from three individuals, complaining of abuse in the exercise of the powers intrusted to officers under the abolition acts. The substance of them was at first denied. It was needless to recapitulate the circumstances. Three persons established on the Rio Pongas had been dragged from their settlements to Sierra Leone, there tried by a surgeon, condemned to fourteen years banishment in Botany Bay, and sent to Portsmouth, to be from thence transported. From that place they transmitted to him a petition, which he presented to the Prince Regent, through the noble secretary for the colo-
ll1332Mr. P. Moore
1364136313621361ll1360 defended his noble friend from the misrepresentation of having ever said, that 22 millions must be the ultimate peace establishment of the country. What his noble friend had expressly declared was, that 22 millions was the amount to which alone it could be reduced in the first year after the conclusion of the war; but that it might be subsequently susceptible of a greater reduction, which reduction it had accordingly experienced. As to the supposition, that 100 millions might have been saved during the war by greater economy, the thing was impossible, as the checks and regulations, which it was very easy to enforce in peace, were impracticable during an extensive war, when a larger discretion must necessarily be allowed to those entrusted with the execution of naval and military operations. As to the nine millions which the hon. baronet said had been uselessly expended in fortifications, it was very easy when the danger was over, to talk of the precautions having been unnecessary. With respect to the assertion, that the revenue of the country was not at present mere than equal to the charges, the same had always been the case at the conclusion of a peace.
1364136313621361ll1360Mr. Huskisson
1357lll had no hesitation in declaring, that he thought the present situation of the country required a relaxation of taxation, and that it would be well purchased, either by a reduction of the interest of the national debt or the application of some part of the sinking fund to the ways and means of the year. He could never think any measures wild or mischievous that might preclude the necessity of forcing upon us again the income or property tax. After some allusions to the state of the sinking fund, the hon. gentleman treated the financial system at present pursued as the greatest delusion, and observed that any man must be blind not to see that we should be worse off every year, unless the interest of the debt were reduced. It was in vain to dispute that there had been this year taken from the sum for the reduction of the national debt, no less than 14,729,0001357lllMr. W. Smith
 did not believe there was a single wise and honourable individual on the continent, who entertained such suspicions of the motives of this country in abolishing the slave trade as had been mentioned by the last speaker. With respect to the motion before the House, he owned he did not entertain such sanguine hopes as some seemed to do, of the influence of this country over Spain. Looking to the conduct of Spain in all her negotiations he had little expectation of any beneficial result. Spain would consent to nothing into the granting of which she was not driven.Mr. W. Smith
133013291328132713261325132413231322 in rising to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, said, he felt gratified in standing before an audience who were but of one mind on this subject. His object was, by proposing an address to the Crown, to give weight to the exertions of the executive power in its negotiations with foreign states. He lamented to say, that in the instance of powers which had already declared their intention to abolish the Slave Trade, there were no appearances that they were disposed to carry that intention into effect; and that even subjects of some of the powers which had abolished the traffic were engaged in carrying it on. He was sorry to be obliged to state, that even under the flag of America, which, to its honor, was the first power which set the example of the abolition, the trade was carried on; and there was reason to suppose that American property and also American subjects were engaged in it. In the colonies which had been restored to France, the trade had also been carried on, though it was to be stated, to the honour of the French government, that a governor who had sanctioned, and perhaps to some extent participated in the traffic, had been turned out of his office. But at Goree and Senegal the trade had been carried on to a great extent; and as the native princes had not been in the practice of collecting slaves by war, they made up cargoes of their domestic slaves. In one instance
133013291328132713261325132413231322Mr. Wilberforce,
1356ll1355 had heard with great surprise the right hon. gentleman say, that the distressed financial state of the country was owing to the rejection of the property tax in the last session; he thought other reasons would occur more readily to every one who heard him; but if there was any foundation for the assertion of the right hon. gentleman, how had it come to pass that, in the third year of peace, a chancellor of the exchequer should be obliged to say, that there existed a necessity for that most grievous war tax, the property tax. If the financial distress of the country was traced to its proper source, it would be found to have been produced by the war; and not merely perhaps by the war, but by the shameful prodigality of each successive administration in the management of the war. It was sufficient to refer to the report of the committee of finance upon the ordnance, to show to what a pitch that extravagance was carried; it appeared in that report, that nine millions were expended daring the war upon the Chatham and Plymouth lines, Spike
1356ll1355Sir H. Parnell
1377 felt it his duty to add his testimony to that of the hon. gentleman who had so eloquently described the loss which the House and the country had sustained, in the person of an able and enlightened advocate in his country's cause. The sentiments which had fallen from him, and which had been so creditable and honourable to himself, had been reciprocated by every member in that House. The feelings incident to the loss of a friend or relative, were undoubtedly acute; but in the next gradation must be placed those attending the decease of a high-minded, candid, and liberal political opponent. Such was the state in which he felt him-
1377Lord Castlereagh
 insisted that the hon. and learned gentleman had employed insinuations which he was bound to expose and to repel.Lord Castlereagh
 contended, that nothing had fallen from his hon. and learned friend which could justify the noble lord's asperity of observation.Mr. Bennet
 apprehended, that there was no doubt that the word libellous was strictly applicable to whatever was said in parliament which, in the case of its being printed, would constitute a libel.Mr. Canning
per saltum,1399l.13981397 began with observing, that after the speech delivered by the hon. and learned gentleman, and the address which he had thought proper to submit to the consideration of the House, he
per saltum,1399l.13981397Lord Castlereagh
140814071406v.1405l.1404140314021401 resumed. He would not shrink from asserting that the expressions of the hon. and learned gentleman, applied on the last day of the session to transactions which took place twenty years ago, were unjust to individuals, prejudicial to the public service, and calculated to lend countenance to the machinations of traitors. He must protest against another abuse of the privilege of speech in the hon. and learned gentleman's observations with regard to Genoa, nor could ministers be responsible for our foreign relations under such a perversion of the purposes of that House. He would maintain, in opposition to the hon. and learned gentleman, that nothing was more strongly to be deprecated than the policy which he recommended, of the greater powers making use of their influence to force commercial regulations on weaker states. It would be an equally unjust and unsound principle of commercial intercourse for this country to aim at the establishment of a distinct cast of British merchants in foreign states, enjoying particular exemptions, instead of those reciprocal advantages which were essential to the rights and interests of every people. He would zealously maintain the privileges of our merchants, in conformity with subsisting treaties; but he never would adopt the hollow, despotic, and illiberal policy—a policy directly contrary to every principle of national law—of ex-
140814071406v.1405l.1404140314021401Lord Castlereagh
14141413141214111410Maluit esse Deum."Cum faber incertus scamnum, faceretne Priapum,1409"Olim truncus eram ficulnys, inutile lignum; would not perhaps have made any observations on the present occasion, but for the remarks in which the noble lord had indulged relative to his conduct. Subjects of great interest had been that night brought under consideration; but there was one of paramount importance—he meant that which respected Ireland—particularly as it bore on the character of Mr. Reynolds, and the general employment of spies and informers by government. If the noble lord had made a much less eloquent defence than he had done—if he had acquitted himself less satisfactorily, than his friends seemed to suppose he had done—still no doubt could be entertained but that he would carry his point. This could not be wondered at, when they considered what bench he sat on. There was, from some cause or other, a sympathy between the opinions delivered from that bench, and those adopted by the majority of the House. This might perhaps be explained, if the bench could speak, as a block appeared to have done in former times—
14141413141214111410Maluit esse Deum."Cum faber incertus scamnum, faceretne Priapum,1409"Olim truncus eram ficulnys, inutile lignum;Sir F. Burdett
1415 said, he was quite unacquainted with Mr. Reynolds, but thought he had been unfairly dealt by. When Mr. Reynolds was a witness on the trials alluded to in Ireland, all the attacks now made on him were made to induce the juries not to believe his testimony; but, after the fullest investigation of the circumstances of the case, the veracity of Mr. Reynolds was confirmed before three different juries, and on his evidence principally the persons tried were convicted of the offences of which they were accused. Afterwards, on Mr. Reynolds's evidence at the bar of the House of Commons, bills of attainder were agreed to. Thus had Mr. Reynolds's character passed through a very fiery ordeal without injury; unless the verdict of juries were not to be attended to when they convicted, but only when they acquitted the persons charged before them. The great fault of Mr. Reynolds was his having entered into the conspiracy, for which he afterwards made an atonement. He (the attorney-general) was one of those perverted beings who did not think that it was criminal in a man to come forward, and make an atonement for a previous offence. So far from thinking such conduct a crime, he was one of those wrong headed persons who called it a virtue. As to the appointment of Mr. Reynolds on the grand jury, government knew no more of his having been so appointed than the hon. and learned gentleman himself. He had been informed, that on Mr. Reynolds's being summoned on the grand jury, he was anxious to get rid of the burthen, and asserted that he ought to be excused on the ground of his being appointed a consul to a foreign state; but this was refused by the summoning officer. With respect to Castle, it was not until a considerable time after the 2d of December, that a single individual connected with government, was aware that such a person as Castle was in existence. He had nothing to do with Castle's general character; but he had stated facts, and without wishing to comment on the verdict of the jury, he thought, and should
1415The Attorney-General
1419certiorari141814171416 said, that he could not listen to the declaration of the noble lord that those who differed from him on this subject were abettors of treason and malignant calumniators, without repelling the accusation with all the scorn which it merited. As long as he had a seat in that House, he would exercise his right to inquire into the conduct of our government.—With reference to the surrender of Genoa to the king of Sardinia, and the transfer of upper Saxony, he could not remember without indignation and shame; the share which our government had in those infamous transactions; and he was persuaded, that although the votes of that House might carry the noble lord through at present, future historians would represent those transactions as blots and stains on the administration of the noble lord, and on the character of the parliament by which they had been sanctioned. It might suit the system of the noble lord to
1419certiorari141814171416Mr. Bennet
14211420 said, after what had fallen from the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, and after the affidavits which
14211420Lord Casllereagh
 declared, that parliament had been, since the commencement of the session, employed, not in redressing the grievances of the people, but in repressing the expression of their sentiments. None of the allegations of the petitions on the table had been inquired into: but when green bags were introduced by the noble lord opposite, they were, without delay, referred to committees, and reports made to the House, without any opportunity being afforded to show the falsity of the allegations in the evidence. He had intended to have moved some resolutions expressive of his opinion of the state of the country, during the session, but had never had an opportunity of bringing them forward.Lord Cochrane
1439"Good men look sad—while ruffians dance and leap."14381437143614351434143314321431"Did but their readers know how much they blot;""Authors lose half the praise they would have got"Nee diversa; tamen qualem decet essa sororuin.""—Facics non omnibus una14301429142814271426up14251424 said, he was as unwilling as the hon. gentleman (Mr. W. Smith) to prolong the debate; but after the revival, not for the first nor the twentieth time, of charges which had been as often refuted as they had been brought forward—after the renewal of calumnies which,
1439"Good men look sad—while ruffians dance and leap."14381437143614351434143314321431"Did but their readers know how much they blot;""Authors lose half the praise they would have got"Nee diversa; tamen qualem decet essa sororuin.""—Facics non omnibus una14301429142814271426up14251424Mr. Canning
 said, he was authorized to state that Mr. Finnerty disclaimed having offered any compromise, directly or indirectly, to lord Castlereagh, in order to prevent his being brought up for judgment in 1810.Sir F. Burdett
 said, that a message had been delivered to him, stating, that Mr. Finnerty was ready, upon such a condition, to make an apology.Lord Castlereagh
1446144514441443144214411440 rose to reply. He began by stating, that had it not been for the right hon. gentleman's speech, he should not have availed himself at that late hour of the claim to a reply, which the usual courtesy of the House gave him, but have left the arguments urged by the noble lord in his defence, without much anxiety for the result, to the decision of those who had honoured him by attending to his statements. Now, however, he felt it due to those who supported the address, to himself, and to the question, to rescue it from the misapprehensions of the right hon. gentleman, who, of course, could not be supposed capable of misrepresentation; and he really must say, that had he no other reason for again offering himself to the attention of the House, he should feel called to do so in order to express his gratitude for the amusement he had received from the very lively and witty, he might even say funny, speech they had just heard. The right hon. gentleman had charged the Address principally with omissions, and above all with leaving out the subject of parliamentary reform. Now, for his part, he could hardly regret this, as it had afforded the right hon. gentleman an occasion for letting off his long meditated speech on that question, which for some odd reason or other he had not chosen to speak in the debate on the worthy baronet's motion upon the subject—and he must say the right hon. gentleman himself was rather ungrateful in making such invectives against an omission which he had turned to so much account; to be sure, had it been otherwise, he did not at all know that he would not have contrived to bring in the speech which he had ready for use. That was his way of debating. He had honoured him (Mr. B.) by comparing him to a commander, and had given a very distorted account of his operations; and, it was said, that chiefs accustomed to be opposed, got to know one another's tactics very precisely. Now, he could not have the presumption to say it of himself, but the little legion—the band on that side, who were generally opposed to the right hon. gentleman, as one leader is to another, had learned pretty accurately his course of tactics. It was this—he took care to have magazines well stored with ready-made, cut and dry speeches, prepared for future occasions, and adapted as replies to the
1446144514441443144214411440Mr. Brougham
v.v. said, that the case of Finnerty v.v.Mr. Brougham
 rose to order, and submitted, that these were expressions which were not consistent with the decorum and dignity of their proceedings. He considered that the noble lord was exceeding the usual licence of parliamentary language.Mr. Brougham
 admitted, that his reflections on the noble lord's conduct called for explanation from him, and even excused some warmth in the conduct of his defence.Mr. Brougham
13961395139413931392versusdurante bene placito,13911390138913881387138613851384138313821381138013791378 said, that if no public principles had been violated during the session, and if at its close they left the liberties of the people on their ancient foundation, and the power of the Crown within its constitutional limits, he would not once more have trespassed on the indulgence of the House; but when the expectations of the country had been so great at the beginning of the session, when the disappointment in its progress was so signal and so afflicting, and above all, when the rights and the liberties—when the personal freedom of every man in the nation was put in the power of ministers, he could not allow the session to close without seeing whether, before separating, they would not be prevailed on to exercise the wholesome duty of self-examination, and to carry to the foot of the throne an humble address, praying that the extraordinary powers which they had given should not be abused. The distresses every where felt at the beginning of the session, all
13961395139413931392versusdurante bene placito,13911390138913881387138613851384138313821381138013791378Mr. Brougham
1422 said, that an hon. gentleman had stated, that his noble relative was acquainted with Castle before the late transactions. He could only say, that he had distinctly heard his noble relative state that he had never known any tiling of Castle till January last. An hon. baronet had read an extract from a pamphlet, the name of the author of which he had not mentioned. As to the facts stated in the extract, he knew nothing of them. But this he could say, that although Mr. Nicholls might be once or twice in the secretary of state's office, he did not in any way come under the sweeping stigma of having been employed by government. He rose principally to do an act of justice which he should be ashamed of himself if he shrunk from, towards an injured individual who had been most cruelly treated both within doors
1422Mr. Hiley Addington
1423 doubted much whether the country, or even that House, would concur in the judgment of acquittal which the secret tribunal to which the right hon. gentleman referred had pronounced on the spy, Oliver. For his part, his judgment could not be on the favourable side, when he recollected what he had beard from departed right hon. friend of his, whose memory had been so justly eulo-
1423Mr. Barham
137613751374 rose and spoke as follows:—137613751374Mr. Lamb
 could not help expressing his satisfaction at hearing the condemnation of torture to extract evidence which had been pronounced by the noble lord. With respect to sir Thomas Judkin Fitzgerald, he knew not whether he was dead or alive, but he held in his hand a pamphlet bearing to be a report of his trial. This report contained the defence of Fitzgerald by himself, in which he expressed sentiments most opposite to those which the noble lord had expressed: for he declared to a jury, that on a variety of occasions he had ordered to be flogged persons who afterwards proved to be innocent, for the purpose of extracting truth. If this was not true why had it not been contradicted? Was it not true that the man who had stated, in a court of justice, that he had made use of torture in a number of instances for the sake of obtaining truth, had afterwards been made a baronet? If this was true, would not the fair inference be, that government not only wished the infliction of torture, but had rewarded this individual for doing that which they were ashamed to do themselves?Mr. W. Smith
 felt it his duty to offer on this occasion a few words, as a testimony of respect to the memory of departed worth. The character of the deceased had been always that which had excited in his mind the highest veneration for his principles, and those talents which he so successfully exerted in the cause of his country. The military page of our history would record with gratitude and admiration the achievements and devotion of a Ponsonby in the field; while the historical records of parliament would publish to grateful posterity the self-devotion of the patriot, which prompted him to sacrifice himself to his country's cause, in one of the worst and most critical periods of our history.Sir M. W. Ridley
42 apologized for troubling their lordships, after the able manner in which the subject had been opened by the noble earl who had moved the address, and trusted the House would extend to him the usual indulgence, in consequence of his being unaccustomed to address them. He joined most cordially in the satisfaction expressed at the result of the expedition to Algiers, not only because that expedition had been most justly and properly undertaken, in consequence of conduct on the part of the Barbary powers that could not be submitted to with honour on the part of this country, but also in the complete success of the expedition, entrusted as it had been to a noble and gallant admiral, whose conduct, in every point of view, was entitled to every praise that could be bestowed, and whose exertions were so admirably seconded by the bravery and zeal of his gallant crew; and still more he rejoiced at the final result of that expedition—the abolition for ever of Christian slavery. He also cordially concurred in the praise bestowed on the successful termination of the Nepaul war. With regard to the internal situation of the country, he could not but in common with others, deeply regret the distress that, to a considerable extent, prevailed, and of the existence of which all their lordships must be convinced, though he trusted and believed that it arose merely from causes of a temporary nature arising chiefly from the transition from a state of war to that of peace, and which he trusted would soon pass away, leaving in full vigour, all the resources of the country, all the great springs of its industry and wealth. Still more deeply, however, was it to be regretted that this distress should have been taken advantage of by evil minded persons, for the purpose of inflaming the people to acts of riot and outrage. Little did he think, when he came down yesterday, with the intention of seconding an address to the Prince Regent, that that illustrious
42The Earl of Rothes
62 said, he had attended very closely to the noble lord who had just sat down, and notwithstanding the noble lord's opinion, the only conclusion he could draw from his statements was this; that though the country was in a bad condition at the close of the American war, it was now in a much worse. So far was our income from exceeding our expenditure now, that it fell greatly short of it, and the deficiency threatened the most serious consequences to the country. He never rose with greater pain in his life to address their lordships, and that not merely on account of the distress of the country, great as that distress was. Notwithstanding the many thousands who severely felt the difficulties of the times; notwithstanding the sufferings of that important, but now almost extinguished class, the country gentlemen; notwithstanding that almost all, except those who lived by the taxes, were compelled to make the greatest sacrifices; notwithstanding all these considerations, he derived a far more melancholy view from the conviction that ministers were determined to resist every reasonable plan of economy and reform. This conviction gave him far greater alarm than the situation of public affairs, gloomy as that was. It indeed appeared, that if the present objects of ministers were pursued, and their present principles maintained, their system must terminate in a military despotism. He could foresee no other result. He was fully persuaded that the disaffection complained of by ministers arose in a great measure from their resistance to all temperate propositions for economy and reform. Their attempts to maintain a war expenditure in peace, and their conduct with respect to the auditing of the civil list, were proofs of their intentions. With regard to the latter subject, it was to be regretted that their lordships did not take the business into their own hands, rather
62Earl Grosvenor
65l.64 expressed his anxiety not to give a silent vote on the important discussion before the House, and he said his solicitude was increased by what had fallen from the noble lords who had spoken in support of the address. The noble earl (Harrowby) had set out with assuming that it was not the province of the servants of the Crown to state to parliament the exact situation of public affairs; they ought not, said the noble earl, to be so represented, to use the precise words, in such black colours. Now, if that House were, as they ought to be, the honest counsellors of the Crown, if they took the just estimate of their duties, they would disavow all such qualifications, and approach the throne in the language of sincerity Land truth. Were they to endeavour to have the calamities of the country shaded down in their address, and truth to give way to the incense of a disguised statement, he knew no greater desertion of duty of which public men could be guilty. The House must ground a just opinion of his majesty's ministers on their general practice, and not on unmeaning promises in the speech from the throne. They should view their statements as they would the evidence of a witness at the bar, and form the true conclusion on the language, the general demeanor, the character of the evidence, but, above all, they should view with strong suspicion every attempt to delude and to conceal the real facts. Their lordships could not forget the impressions which the conduct exemplified last session had left on the country. Economy was then by ministers divested of all meaning. It was a term without its due application, perverted into a species of state crime, a sort of constructive treason against the government. Ministers had now, however, felt it necessary to hold a different language; but this change in their tone never evinced itself until they were actually forced, step by step, from their extravagant determination, and after such a scene of lavish expenditure, with a total disregard of public feeling, as was never before witnessed in the annals of the country. Having stated this broadly, he would illustrate it by a few examples. An
65l.64Lord St. John
78 thought the speech from the throne was not adapted to the real state of the country, nor such as the public had a right to expect under their present difficulties. He could have hoped that the ministers of the crown would have advised the Prince Regent to imitate the magnanimous example of queen Anne, who sacrificed the means appropriated to the splendour of the throne to the welfare of her people. Had this advice been recommended and adopted, he was quite certain that the outrage upon the Prince
78The Earl of Darnley
757473727170auto da fé6968 entered into a view of the unprecedented circumstances of the country, with an expression of his astonishment at the manner in which those circumstances were mentioned in the speech from the throne. The distresses of the country had grown to a magnitude that admitted no longer of palliation, and which forced themselves on the consideration of that House in a way that could not be resisted. When he saw the condition of all ranks of his majesty's people, and looked back on their exertions, their patience, their loyalty, their confidence in parliament, and their present misery, he was utterly at a loss to conceive by what criminal forgetfulness of their duty ministers could have withheld the most solemn assurances of an immediate and strict inquiry into the causes of such tremendous misfortune and a pledge of every possible relief. Instead of this what was the address that was proposed to them? A mere complimentary reciprocation of general phrases of which the speech was made up, and without one specific, direct assurance of attention to the complaints of the people or promise of relief. Was this a day for compliment—for courtly professions—for the mere repetition of the words of the minister's speech? Were they only to rejoice with the crown on the glory that the country had obtained, and not to look to the condition in which those victories had left the country? It was manifest that those distresses had been growing to the height which now astounded the firmest mind, by slow, but perceptible degrees, and ministers must have seen the progress. Why, then did they not assemble the parliament earlier? Why deprive the country
757473727170auto da fé6968The Marquis Wellesley
5857565554535251*New Parl. Hist. Vol. 25, p. 420.*l.50494847464544**43 rose and said:—My lords, before I proceed to notice those points in the address which has just been read to your lordships, and in the speeches of the noble mover and seconder of that address, on which it will be my painful duty to express some dissent, it is my wish shortly to advert to those subjects on which the noble lords, I am sure, truly anticipated that there would be no difference of opi-
5857565554535251*New Parl. Hist. Vol. 25, p. 420.*l.50494847464544**43Earl Grey
61§6059l.l., said, he had listened with all the attention in his power to what had fallen from the noble earl opposite, but without being able to hear sufficient reasons to induce their lordships to support the amendment which had been moved. The noble earl had complained, that the difficulties of the country were not sufficiently expatiated on in the Address proposed. He would, it seemed, have them stated in their blackest colours. But in tracing a general view of public affairs, it was by no means necessary always to state things precisely as they were. To adopt the course the noble earl recommended, might be in many cases highly injurious, by subduing that spirit of confidence and hope which can alone give sufficient energy to rescue a country from a state of difficulty, and restore its prosperity. The noble earl called on their lordships to assert facts to which they could not give their assent. It was, for instance, impossible for them to agree with him in declaring, that the present distress exceeded that of every former period of difficulty known to the country. How were their lordships to concur in that opinion? He recollected former periods of distress which had given rise to complaints as loud as those which were made at present. The American war had been alluded to, and he believed the noble earl entered parliament soon after the termination of that contest. It could not be forgotten, that the language of that day was distinguished by the strongest despondency. The noble earl had alluded to the state of the country in the year 1783; but he ought to have recollected that at that period our public debt had increased in the couse of ten years by a sum, the interest of which was 4,80O,00061§6059l.l.,The Earl of Harrowby
63 supported the address, and defended our negociations with France, as blending the happy mixture of prudence, in regard to our own security, with liberal principles towards our late enemy. In regard to the state of the public mind, he would not then inquire whether the charitable construction of the noble earl, who moved the amendment, was supported by the facts, but he must be allowed to remark, that whatever the motives of the individuals alluded to might be, the House had to look to the effects. In this contemplation, the government bad been rather indifferent to such efforts, and might with propriety be quickened on that point. With respect to the insincerity as to economy, charged against the servants of the Crown, when the estimates were before the House it would see whether the pledge given by them had been realized or not. The establishments of last year were not greater, he believed, than the circumstances of the country required: they were voted as temporary, indeed it was impossible to fix, at that time, on any thing like a permanent peace
63The Earl of Aberdeen
7776 said, that his noble friend who had just sat down had commenced his speech with an endeavour to satisfy the House that the speech from the noble earl who moved the amendment had no tendency to create despondency. For his own part, notwithstanding the authority and eloquence of his noble friend, lie was quite persuaded that there never was a speech delivered in parliament so well calculated to produce despondency. He could not agree with his noble friend, that the present distress of the country was permanent, or proceeded from causes of that tendency. If, indeed, the situation of the country was hopeless, in vain would it be to inquire into the causes of the distress, for the hopelessness of its state would render all inquiry useless. But he thought very differently upon the subject from his noble friend. His noble friend had considered the speech from the throne, and the address moved upon it, as totally inadequate to the present situation of the country. Being, however, one of those who advised the construction of the speech, he could conscientiously say, that he considered it as one immediately adapted to the purpose for which it was intended, because of its plainness and candour. It did not attempt to conceal the distresses of the country, nor to palliate the causes of those distresses. But whilst it admitted the existence of those distresses, it asserted them to be only temporary, and at the same time recommended such retrenchments as were consistent with sound policy and the safety of the country. Retrench-
7776Viscount Sidmouth
6766 defended the conduct of his majesty's ministers. What they had stated last year was, that they had then made reductions in the establishments as low as the circumstances of that year would allow; but they were then far from saying, that these were the only reductions that could be made, or that future years would admit of. He would appeal to their lordships, if this had not been their uniform language; and whether they had not absolutely denied that these were to be the utmost limit to the reductions of the peace establishments. Whether the reductions were made to the utmost extent that they could possibly admit of, would now be a fair subject for the consideration of parliament. He would not say, that the military establishments could not be actually reduced lower than was now proposed; but, at least, in the opinion of ministers, they were as low as the actual safety of the country would admit. He would readily allow, that there was nothing in the present address which bound their lordships to approve of the objects of the Nepaul war. Near the close of the last session, the House had been told, that that war was closed; but in consequence of the refusal of the chief to sign the treaty which had then been concluded, a renewal of it became necessary on our part, and the praise contained in the speech was solely intended for the ability and valour with which it had been conducted, and brought to a successful termination; and as to the language in which the praise was conveyed, being nearly the same as that applied to the conduct of a noble personage now present, on account of the conclusion of the Mysore war, he did not think that noble personage would think his conduct disparaged by the comparison. The noble earl who moved the amendment had spoken of the utter detestation
6766Earl Bathurst
414039 rose to move an address of thanks. His lordship said, he sincerely wished that upon this occasion it was in his power to congratulate their lordships and the country on the present aspect of affairs; but although he was unable to do so to the extent of his wishes, yet he could at least call their attention to the consideration of many circumstances stated in the Speech of his royal highness which afforded much consolation. It was a satisfaction to himself, and he had no doubt it would be to their lordships, to learn that his royal highness had continued to receive from the foreign powers assurances of their friendship; all would be rejoiced to know, that no interruption was likely to occur to that repose and tranquillity of which this country so much stood in need. It was this that tended to the advancement of civilization, and to the promotion of general happiness and prosperity. His lordship then adverted to the depredations and insults of the Barbary corsairs, whose conduct made it absolutely necessary for this government to take measures to put a stop to christian slavery, and to barbarous oppression. A war was accordingly commenced against these piratical states, and it fell to the lot of lord Exmouth to command the combined fleet destined for the attack of these barbarians. In the event it was proved, that this grand enterprise could not have been committed to the care of an officer more fitted for the undertaking—to one who had proved himself not only most brave and skilful, but most zealous in the cause in which he was employed. The dey of Algiers treated with contempt the just demands of the British forces, and trusted to his own powers and to the strength of his own fortifications; but fortunately he was soon taught, that neither the strength of his towers, nor the obstinate bravery of his troops, could effectually resist the valour and intrepidity of British officers and British seamen. The contest was main-
414039The Earl of Dartmouth
173172171170, in rising to present a petition from Mr. Hunt, said, that he was not sufficiently conversant with the orders of
173172171170The Earl of Thanet
 said, that, anxious as their lordships must be to listen to, and redress, any grievance which might be stated to them, still, he was sure, they would see the propriety of not receiving petitions, drawn up like the present, which called on them to exercise a jurisdiction that did not belong to the House. The petition, in fact, demanded that they should interfere in a case which was open to judicial proceedings; that they should assume an original jurisdiction, contrary to the principles of the constitution, which said, that they should not exercise such a power.The Lord Chancellor
176175 rose to move the thanks of the House to lord Exmouth, and the officers and crews of the ships employed in the attack on Algiers. He said, he did not intend to make any statement, as to the motives by which the executive government was actuated in resolving upon this enterprise. Their lordships would recollect, that in the month of June, lord Exmouth, returned from the Mediterranean with the fleet under his command, and, as usual at the close of a war, that fleet was dismantled, and the crews paid off and disbanded. When the' expedition against Algiers was determined upon, it became necessary to collect men from different guardships, and to call for the services of volunteers for this particular enterprise. He mentioned that circumstance, because those who knew the value which naval officers attached to a crew long accustomed to act together, would be the better enabled to appreciate the exertions and skill of lord Exmouth, and the difficulties he had to contend with, in rendering crews collected as he had stated efficient for his purpose. To that object lord Exmouth devoted his daily, his hourly attention, and accomplished it in a manner which reflected the highest credit on his judgment and ability. His lordship then proceeded with his squadron on the appointed service. He proposed certain terms to the dey of Algiers, according to his instructions; and no satisfactory reply being given, the ships took their positions for commencing the attack on the city. It was due to lord Exmouth here to state a circumstance not generally known. An opinion had prevailed in many quarters, that accident and the elements had been very favourable to lord Exmouth in the execution of the enterprise; but the fact was, that when government had determined on the undertaking, many persons, and among them several naval officers, were of opinion, that the defences were so strong that the attack could not succeed. Not so lord Exmouth, though he was perfectly aware of the difficulties with which he had to contend. He had himself formed the plan of his operations, and gave it as his opinion that the object might be accomplished; not from any idle confidence, but founded on the reasons which he stated, and the plan which he had formed. He had in this
176175Lord Melville
, as a naval officer, could not suffer this opportunity to pass without bearing his testimony to the skill and gallantry of lord Exmouth. A more zealous, judicious, and gallant naval officer, the country did not possess. He himself had been for some time under the noble and gallant lord's command, and on every occasion that called for their exertion, lord Exmouth had never failed to display the highest qualities of a naval officer. In the East Indies he had observed, that lord Exmouth's attention had extended to the preservation of the naval stores from improper waste, so that an improper expenditure of the public money was prevented, the ships were always well supplied, and kept in a state always ready for action. He never gave a vote in that House with more satisfaction than he did in favour of the present motion.Lord Torrington
GEORGE P. R""GEORGE P. R""His royal highness the Prince Regent, acting in the name and on the behalf of his Majesty, has given orders that there be laid before the House of Lords, Papers containing information respecting certain practices, meetings, and combinations in the metropolis, and in different parts of the kingdom, evidently' calculated to endanger the public tranquillity, to alienate the affections of his majesty's subjects from his majesty's person and government, and to bring into hatred and contempt the whole system of our laws and constitution. His Royal Highness recommends to the House of Commons to take these papers into their immediate and serious consideration.GEORGE P. R."GEORGE P. R. presented the following Message from the Prince Regent:
GEORGE P. R""GEORGE P. R""His royal highness the Prince Regent, acting in the name and on the behalf of his Majesty, has given orders that there be laid before the House of Lords, Papers containing information respecting certain practices, meetings, and combinations in the metropolis, and in different parts of the kingdom, evidently' calculated to endanger the public tranquillity, to alienate the affections of his majesty's subjects from his majesty's person and government, and to bring into hatred and contempt the whole system of our laws and constitution. His Royal Highness recommends to the House of Commons to take these papers into their immediate and serious consideration.GEORGE P. R."GEORGE P. R.Viscount Sidmouth
193 rose and said:—My lords; I rise to propose to your lordships an Address to his royal highness the Prince Regent, in answer to the Message which I brought down yesterday by his Royal Highness's command. My lords, it will be readily imagined by your lordships, that such a communication could not be made to this House, without strong feelings of pain and regret on the part of the illustrious person, by whose command it was submitted to the House. It is, indeed, my lords, a most afflicting consideration, that it should be announced to your lordships, to this country, and to the world, that information has been received, of certain practices, meetings, and combinations, tending to alienate the affections of his majesty's subjects, to endanger the public tranquillity, to bring into hatred and contempt his majesty's government, and to overthrow the whole system of our laws and constitution! and your lordships will, I am sure, readily believe, that such a communication could not, and would not have been made, except under circumstances of peculiar and inevitable necessity. My lords, if it should be your lordships pleasure, as I have no doubt it will be, to concur in an address to his royal highness the Prince Regent, in answer to his gracious message, such a one shall be proposed, as, I trust, will be considered proper, because it shall not pledge your lordships to any measure beyond the mere consideration of the papers. Under all the circumstances of the case, I shall propose to your lordships, that the information referred to in the message of his Royal Highness be referred to a committee of secrecy, and, in making this statement, I naturally feel, that it is not proper, it is not possible, that I should now enter into any explanation relative to the information contained in those documents. I shall also abstain from making any reference to any ulterior measures that may arise from the proceedings of the committee. On this point, my lords, nothing can be done, and nothing ought to be said, until the report of the committee, if it be your pleasure to appoint one, is laid on your lordships table. My lords, all I have to request of your lordships is, that you will abstain from making up your minds, if I may be allowed to use the expression, with respect to the course which it may be expedient, or inexpedient, to follow, after your lordships are in possession of the information which shall be laid before
193Lord Sidmouth
 My lords, the noble viscount has undoubtedly made a most tremendous charge against a large portion of the people of this country. I trust that charge will not be sustained; but at all events, your lordships cannot but acquiesce in the proposition of the noble viscount, for going into this committee, after such a serious such a momentous charge. Of this, however, I am convinced, that, let the disaffection be great or trivial, it has been provoked by the disposition which has been manifested, on many occasions, by his majesty's ministers to their faces against every species of reform, and pertinaciously to oppose every thing like extended and efficient retrenchment.Earl Grovesnor.
196195***194 My lords, to the motion made by the noble viscount, and to the whole course of proceeding recommended by him, it is impossible, in my humble opinion, to make any objection, when a message of this nature has been sent down from the throne. The state-
196195***194Lord Holland.
198§197 My lords, I do not mean to trouble your lordships with more than a very few words on this occasion. According to what has been said by the noble lords opposite, no difference of opinion exists as to the mode of proceeding recommended by my noble friend. I cannot think—whatever diversity of sentiment there may be, either with respect to the internal state of the country, or with reference to the measures to be adopted under that situation of things—I cannot, my lords, conceive, that a more proper, a more constitutional, or, I will add, a more liberal proposition, could be introduced, than that brought forward by my noble friend. The general circumstances, undoubtedly, to which the noble lord opposite has alluded, must naturally form apart of the consideration of the committee. But, it was the wish of government, in noticing those general circumstances, not to suffer the message, or the address in answer to it, to pledge parliament to any opinion whatever—either as to the necessity of any farther measures to secure the internal peace and tranquillity of the country, or as to the propriety of letting matters remain as they are. I am sure the noble lord who spoke last will agree with me, that if his majesty's ministers were in possession of the information stated in the Prince Regent's message, they could not have performed their duty
198§197The Earl of Liverpool.
 in explanation, said, that the charge must be supposed to have been brought against a large portion of the people, otherwise it would have been idle and unnecessary to have called the attention of their lordships to the subject.Earl Grosvenor,
201200199 My lords, to the course of proceeding mentioned by the noble secretary of state, and by the noble earl who has recently spoken, I do not know that any objection has been offered by my noble friends near me, nor, indeed, that any objection can be made. Undoubtedly, if it be true that his majesty's ministers have obtained information of practices that threaten danger to the constitution, it was their duty to communicate it to parliament, and they could not do so in a more proper mode than by adopting the course which had been pursued on similar occasions. Whether that information is of such a nature as to render this communication necessary—whether it is of so much importance as to call for so grave a proceeding—is what we shall hereafter have to decide on; when, on a full consideration of the case, the whole matter
201200199Earl Grey.
202 My lords, I feel, in common with my noble friends, a sincere regret that it should be deemed necessary by his majesty's government to resort to a measure of this nature. The responsibility of proving that necessity rests upon ministers, and as far as they have gone, they are unquestionably entitled to the confidence of the House, that they would not have so proceeded without strong grounds to justify them. When at a future period those grounds come to be examined, tremendous will the responsibility be. I shall go to the inquiry with the dispositions so properly recommended by the noble lords on the opposite Bide. I shall enter upon it as I would enter upon the functions of a juror, in a case of life and death. When the period of investigation arrives, it will be necessary to satisfy me, not only that they shall be able to show that such difficulties have existed as they now state to exist, and that such combinations have been formed as they now represent to be in a state of activity; they must also prove, that the law as it stands at present, is insufficient to counteract the dangers to be apprehended from both. If that is not done, I shall say, that but half their case is proved. If they cannot show distinctly that the law, as it now exists, has been applied to, and found inadequate, the question of their defence will then resolve itself into this proposition unsupported by fact, that the greater the degree of distress, the greater should be the power of the law. If it is proved that the law was not sufficient to suppress the difficulties with which we are threatened, the case will then be made out, it will then appear to
202The Marquis of Buckingham.
nem. dis.216 addressing himself to lord Exmouth, who rose and remained standing, said, that the House in the discharge of its high duty, had taken into its serious consideration the honourable claim which the noble admiral had acquired to the applause and gratitude of the nation, for his gallant and meritorious conduct, in carrying into execution the determination of this government, to deliver from bondage the christian slaves already confined at Algiers, and to abolish, by treaty, the system of christian slavery for ever! the measure adopted by this country had been most favourable to the interests of humanity, and reflected lustre throughout Europe, on the British name and character. The House had learned, with the most lively satisfaction, that the plan of the great achievement, which the noble admiral had so gallantly executed, was formed by his skill, judgment, and ability; and the world had heard, and had done justice to the valour and intrepidity, with which that achievement had been effected. The display of those great qualities, of skill, valour, judgment, and intrepidity, could not fail to transmit to posterity, the name of the noble admiral, together with those of the illustrious men who had raised
nem. dis.216The Lord Chancellor
 moved, that the speech of the Lord Chancellor and that of lord Exmouth should be entered upon the Journals; which was ordered.Lord Melville
217 said, that, after the high eulogium which had been pronounced by the noble and learned lord, it was impossible for him to withdraw, without endeavouring to express the high degree of satisfaction which he felt on this occasion. However judicious his arrangements might be considered—however important the results to which they led might prove—he felt that his exertions were overpaid by the honour now conferred on him. When engaged in the expedition, he relied, for his best reward, on the approbation of the noble lords who surrounded him; and that reward he received with sentiments of gratitude and respect. He might, indeed, be charged with insensibility, if he did not feel almost overwhelmed by the obligation. Honoured, as he was, by the favour of his royal highness the Prince Regent, and distinguished by the approbation of their lordships, it was impossible for him to find language adequate to the expression of his feelings. His life had been devoted, for the last forty years, to the naval service of his country, and, therefore, he felt himself competent to speak of the efficient aid he had received from his able associates in the expedition, rear-admiral sir David Milne, and vice-admiral Van Capellan—as well as of the manly perseverance, and unconquerable spirit, of the brave officers and men of both services. He would venture to state, without fear of contradiction, that the flag of Great Britain never obtained more glory, never derived more honour, was never crowned with greater success, than in the operations against Algiers. He felt the highest reward in the confidence of
217Lord Exmouth
nem. diss.218 said, he rose to submit a motion, which, he was convinced, would not be received with disapprobation. He was the first nobleman who had moved, that the speech of the noble and learned lord, in communicating the thanks of the House, and the answer to it, should be printed. This he had done, when viscount Duncan received their lordships thanks for his victory over the Dutch. From the manner in which the noble and learned lord had communicated their lordships' thanks on this occasion—an occasion of the utmost importance—an occasion on which the character of Great Britain stood as high and as proud as on any other whatever—he thought that the same course should be adopted. The expedition against Algiers was a subject of which this country might well be proud, because it had often been asserted, by foreign states, that, in our maritime pursuits, we always fought and acted for ourselves alone. But all the nations of Europe could now judge, whether Great Britain, in sending out viscount Exmouth on this service, was not actuated by a pure feeling of humanity towards the rest of the world? By this act Great Britain had proved, that she could and would exert
nem. diss.218The Duke of Clarence
l. before going to the order of the day, was desirous of asking a question of the noble earl opposite. It was a fact well known, and had been mentioned in all the public journals, that soon after the restoration of Louis 18th to the throne of France, the chamber of deputies had voted the sum of 12,000,000 francs (500,000l.Lord Holland
227 said, he did not at the present moment recollect the circumstance of the vote to which the noble lord alluded. There were sums due to individuals from the French government,
227The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that the latter part of what had been said by the noble earl was sufficiently satisfactory to him, that no such sum as he alluded to had been received by this government. The fact, however, of its having been voted by the chamber of deputies, was matter of notoriety: it had been mentioned in the Journals of this country, and in all the newspapers of Europe. He did not wish to be understood as desiring that the payment of a debt should be inconveniently pressed upon the French government; he was only anxious to ascertain the fact whether it had been received. The application of the money voted by the chamber of deputies was of course a question between them and the French government with which we had nothing to do. The chamber if they dared to do it, might institute an inquiry respecting this sum, but it was of importance to know that it had not been received here.Lord Holland
228 shortly referred to this question, upon which he observed that the vote of the chamber of deputies was matter of perfect notoriety; and then observed that there was another question, respecting which he wished to obtain some information from his majesty's ministers; he alluded to the french loan. He wished to know whether they had in any way sanctioned or guaranteed the loan from British capitalists to the French government? He could not, however, for a moment suppose that they would guarantee a transaction of that nature. The more important question to which he wished to have an explicit answer was, whether the ministers had not felt it their duty to give notice to the capitalists concerned in the loan, that they would not at any future period, in case the French government failed in their engagements, interfere to obtain for them the payment of what should be due to them? He conceived it to be essentially important that his majesty's ministers should have given that express notice to the capitalists
228The Earl of Lauderdale
229 said, he had no hesitation in stating, that his majesty's ministers had not sanctioned or guaranteed the French loan, nor had they committed themselves either directly or indirectly upon the subject. It was merely a private transaction, at the option and the risk of the individuals concerned, against which there was no law whatever, and with which the government had no concern. This subject, however, having been started, he felt it necessary to correct a misunderstanding which had prevailed upon it, both on the part of the public press and in other quarters. It was not a loan to be raised in London. The French government being in want of money for current expenditure, or for whatever object, applied to certain capitalists in Paris, in London, in Amsterdam, at Vienna, and Frankfort; and the fact was,
229The Earl of Liverpool
230 observed, that he did not accuse his majesty's ministers of giving any sanction or guarantee to this transaction; but notwithstanding this, the noble earl had merely given an answer to that point which was not called for, and had left unnoticed the only material point, namely, whether his majesty's ministers had expressly given notice through the bank of England to the monied interest, that the improvident article in the late treaty with France with regard to British claimants, should not be drawn into precedent, and that there should be in future no interference on the part of the British government to secure to these parties the amount of their claims, if the French government should fail in the payment. If such a notice had not been given, he contended that all the pernicious effects of that article remained in their full force, and that British capitalists would naturally draw the inference from
230The Earl of Lauderdale
231 said, the noble earl had talked of the usual mode of communication to the monied interest through the bank of England, and had applied it to an altogether unusual transaction. The fact was, that with regard to a loan to the British government, the usual mode of communicating with the capitalists was through the governor and deputy-governor of the bank of England: but there was no usual mode of making to them mere communications. Waving, however, this objection, he wished to state, that the individuals concerned in the loan had been made to understand (it did not now signify how), that his majesty's government would have no concern, either directly or indirectly, with the transaction, nor would they at all interfere. As to the argument, however, of the noble lord, that they ought to have engaged that there should be no future interference, under any circumstances, in their favour, how was it possible for any ministers to engage for their successors, or for any future government? All they could do was as they had done, to pledge themselves, it was
231The Earl of Liverpool
232 observed that the noble earl who usually stated arguments very fairly, had not dealt so fairly with his noble friend, with regard to the usual communication through the bank of England to the monied interest. What his noble friend had contended, and he thought most justly, was, that an express notice should have been given to the capitalists, that this government would not at all interfere in their favour, if the French government should not make good its engagements. The noble earl said, that his majesty's ministers could not bind their Successors, that they could not bind future governments: be it so, but then what followed? undoubtedly, that there ought to be a resolution of both Houses of Parliament, declaring the improvidence of the article in the treaties in favour of British creditors on the French government, and that it should not be drawn into precedent. He disclaimed, in strong terms, the idle opinion, that monied men should be restrained from employing their capital where and how they thought most conducive to their interests. He deprecated any misconstruction of his sentiments into the most distant censure of the contributors to the French loan. Such censure would be as opposite to his opinions as his wishes. Neither law nor government had any right to interfere with the disposal of capital, which after all, would and ought to go where the interests of those who possessed it required. He should say of the contributors, if utter strangers, that they acted irreproachably, fairly, and honourably; much more so of Mr. Baring, with whose excellent understanding, and pure and honest principles in public and private life, he was well acquainted. On no man on earth would he be more unwilling to cast a reflection for many reasons, and among them this, that no man could deserve it less. No, it was fair in him, or
232Lord Holland
 said, that as communications were admitted by the noble earl to have been made by the ministers to the parties concerned in this loan, and as he presumed these communications must have been official, he gave notice of his intention to move on Monday, that these communications be laid upon the table.—The lords, on the motion of the noble earl, were then ordered to be summoned for Monday.The Earl of Lauderdale
233 said, that in proposing to their lordships to give a vote of thanks to the marquess of Hastings, and to the army which had been engaged in the late campaign in the Nepaul territory, he should not call for any opinion on the justice or necessity of that war. The vote he should move was one in which he had no doubt of their lordships concurrence, as it would merely express their approbation of the plan of the campaign, and of the operations which had led to its successful termination. In reference to what had been said by a noble lord the other evening, as to difference of opinion respecting the prosecution of the war, he must observe, that the statement was founded in error. That noble lord was completely wrong in supposing that any protest had been made by certain members of the council in India against the war. With respect to the justice and necessity of commencing hostilities, there certainly was no difference of opinion in India; and it also had been the opinion of the government of this country, that in order to check the encroachments and aggressions
233The Earl of Liverpool
329328327326 said, that he had waited in vain to see the ministers in their places, and therefore could not any longer defer bringing before their lordships subjects of great importance at all times, but particularly so at the present moment. He alluded to the topics contained in the various petitions that had reached parliament of late, and which were generally to the same effect, except in one respect, that relating to the extent of the reform of parliament; he found it absolutely necessary to take up a little of their lordships time, in detailing the nature of the notices he was about to give, as they were materially blended with the topics of their petitions, and as he was anxious, if possible, not to be misunderstood or misrepresented; not that he cared about misrepresentation himself, he had lived too long in the world, had known too much of political matters, not to be aware, that the people would occasionally misrepresent, when they had a pressing interest in so doing; he must therefore, in all such cases, trust to his consciousness of his warm attachment to the genuine principles of the British constitution; but although indifferent to it himself, yet when he reflected that what he had to suggest was intimately connected with the best interests, prosperity, and happiness of the country, he could not but feel a due anxiety on the subject.
329328327326Earl Grosvenor
 briefly observed, that as the motion was the only thing which fell from the noble earl that evening that was not irregular, he should not oppose it.The Lord Chancellor
419418417416415414413§412 President of the Council, presented the Report of the Committee of Secrecy, which he moved should be read. It was accordingly read by the clerk at the table; and is as follows:419418417416415414413§412The Earl of Harrowby,
 said, that he felt it impossible, and he thought their lordships must feel it impossible, to come to any determination upon the mere report of a committee, however unanimous that committee might be. He hoped they would see the propriety of requiring not only, that the report should be laid before them, but that all the papers and documents upon which that report was founded, should in like manner be submitted to the investigation of parliament. Whatever disaffection existed, or whatever outrages had taken place, be was persuaded the House would feel that the laws of the country were sufficient to put them down. No man could, he thought, be considered a friend to his country, who, without a case of the most urgent necessity to justify him, could recommend the adoption of measures injurious to the liberty of the subject.Earl Grosvenor
420 said, that on this occasion the course had been adopted which had, under similar circumstances, been adopted on former occasions. He had always understood, that one of the objects of parliament in referring papers to a committee of secrecy was, that a greater degree of trust might be reposed
420The Earl of Harrowby
424423422421 stated, that he had some petitions in his hand, grounded on the distressed situation of the country, to be presented to their lordships house. The first was from the lord mayor, aldermen, and livery of London. Notwithstanding the report which had been just read, he trusted the House would listen to the complaints of the people with indulgence, and the more especially in consequence of that report, would do nothing to discourage the exercise of the right of petitioning the two Houses of Parliament. Whatever might be the allegations and statements in petitions, if they were couched in respectful language, their lordships had always been willing to receive them. If there were, indeed, such practices as were stated in the report, then it was the policy of the House to receive with the utmost indulgence the expression of the opinions of petitioners, whatever those opinions might be, if the petitions were couched in respectful terms. He did not say this, because, in the petitions which he was about to present, there was any prayer to which he could not in any degree assent: but even if the prayer had been for annual parliaments and universal suffrage, it would be a calumny to say, that on that account merely, the petitioners had a design to subvert the laws and constitution of the country. His opinion was decidedly opposed to any such plan of reform as that; but when the people were in a state of such distress, looking to the right and to the left for relief, and formed erroneous opinions of what would best contribute to their relief, that error would be best pointed out by discussions in parliament; and if the one-half or one-fourth of what was stated in the report, was true, the ministers were deeply responsible for not assembling parliament at an earlier period. It was, however, matter of great satisfac-
424423422421Lord Holland
 stated, that after the able speeches of his two noble friends, he was not inclined to trespass on the attention of their lordships. He was urged to one observation, because it struck him that his noble friend who spoke last, seemed to misconceive the meaning of the petitioners. When they expressed the opinion, that without parliamentary reform nothing in the shape of redress could be expected, it was not, in his judgment, that they disapproved of the other remedies, but that from the conduct of his majesty's government they had no hope of receiving them. From every thing that had passed, they entertained no hope that the distress under which the country suffered, would make any impression in that quarter. Had any real reduction taken place, were there even a disposition evinced to reduce the burthens, and to correct the flagrant abuses, they would not probably have deemed it indispensable to press parliamentary reform to the extent that under the unchecked continuance of abuse, they now felt necessary.Earl Grosvenor
431l.430429 said, that when he on a former occasion put a question to the noble lords opposite, whether or not they had taken any measures to convey the opinion of ministers to the individuals about to lend their capital to the French government, something had fallen from them that went to show that some communication had taken place. Under that impression he had then given notice of his intention to move for copies of all communications, which had passed upon the subject. Be-
431l.430429The Earl of Lauderdale
434criteria433432 said, the answer he had to make was short. There had been no official communications on the subject alluded to in the motion. He had however, no difficulty in stating, that the individuals concerned being at full liberty, like all other English subjects, to vest their property in the manner most convenient to themselves, had received from his majesty's ministers neither encouragement nor discouragement The government of this country were not parties in the concern, they had entered into no engagement, they had given no guarantee, present or eventual, with reference to the transac-
434criteria433432The Earl of Liverpool
435 said, that the noble earl who had just concluded, had not adverted to all the circumstances of the case. He had said, that all the peculiar advantages under which the last treaties were made, were not likely to recur. He thought, indeed, one circumstance should not be suffered to recur, namely, that the government of the country should buy two or three millions for individuals by six or seven millions out of the public purse. If the ministers of this country continued willing to give up seven millions for 2½ millions, they might be sure the French government would at all times be ready to admit such an article, and that even
435Lord Holland
sine qua non,428427426425 stated, that he held in his hand a petition from the lord mayor, aldermen, and commons of the city of London, in common council assembled, alleging the same grievances, and directed to the same objects as the one lately presented by his noble friend. The respectability of the body from whom the petition he was now about to present, would make its due impression, he was aware, on their lordships' consideration. They state, under the strong feeling of unexampled distress, that the country felt, that the grievances of which they complain were not of a temporary character, but arose from causes more deeply rooted, and of progressive strength, which they trusted that House would be inclined to consider, and prompt to alleviate. They complain of an exorbitant expenditure, of a standing army, a burthen on the nation's finances, and dangerous to the people's liberties. Amongst other remedies, they pray for a strict and rigid system of economy and retrenchment, and for a practical reform in
sine qua non,428427426425Earl Grey
"THOMAS CLEARY.""And your petitioner will ever pray."Your petitioner is aware, that he has trespassed too long on the patience of your lordships; but, well knowing that your lordships seek only for truth as the basis of your proceedings, he humbly hopes that you will be pleased to excuse the earnestness of his present representation, and he also presumes humbly to express his hope, that your lordships will be pleased, in your great tenderness for the character and liberties of his majesty's faithful subjects, to consider whether it be not possible that your secret committee may have been misled, by what they may have deemed good evidence, as to other parts of their recent report; and, at the least, your petitioner humbly prays that your lordships will, in your great condescension, be pleased to permit your petitioner to produce all the books and papers of the London Union Society at the bar of your right honourable House, where your petitioner confidently assures your lordships that he is ready to prove all and singular the allegations, contained in this his most humble petition.477"What, then, must have been the surprise and the pain of your humble petitioner, when he saw, in the report of your lordships secret committee, this London Union Society represented, not only as being still in existence, but busily and extensively at work, establishing branches and affiliations, carrying on an active correspondence, infusing life into societies of Spencean Philanthropists, and producing, by these means, plans of conspiracy, revolution, and treason! And, though your petitioner is too well assured of the upright views and of the justice of every committee consisting of members of your noble and right honourable House not to be convinced that very strong evidence in support of these charges must have been produced to your lordships secret committee, your petitioner cannot, nevertheless, refrain from expressing most humbly his deep regret, that your lordships committee should not have deigned to send for the books and other testimonials of the character and proceedings of the London Union Society; and your petitioner humbly begs leave to observe, that this omission appears singularly unfortunate for the London Union Society, seeing that the secret committee of your lordships appear, in another part of their report, to lament the want of means of obtaining the written proceedings of societies, and seeing
477"Upon this important point your petitioner humbly begs leave to represent to your right honourable House, that the London Union Society was founded in 1812 by Mr. Edward Bolton Clive, Mr. Walter Fawkes, the late colonel Bosville, Mr. Montague Burgoyne, the present lord mayor, Mr. Alderman Goodbehere, Mr. Francis Canning, Mr. William Hallet, sir Francis Burdett, major Cartwright, Mr. Robert Slade, Mr. Timothy Brown, Mr. J. J. Clarke, and several other individuals equally respectable; that it continued to hold meetings but a very short time; that it never did any act except the publishing of one address to the nation on the subject of reform; that it never had any one "Branch;" that it never held any correspondence either written or verbal with any society of any sort; that it never was affiliated to any society, or branch, or any body of men whatsoever; finally, that it has not even met for nearly three years and a half last past; and, of course, that it is not now in existence.476"But the facts to which your petitioner is most anxious humbly to endeavour to obtain the patient attention of your right honourable House, relate to that affiliation and correspondence, which your lordships secret committee have been pleased to impute to the London Union Society, by observing that "it appears that there is a London Union Society, and Branch Unions, corresponding with it, and affiliated to it;" a description which seems, in the humble conception of your petitioner, to resemble that which was given of the London Corresponding Society, in 1795, and which, as your petitioner humbly conceives, point to measures of a nature similar to those which were then adopted; and your petitioner, though with all humility, ventures to express his confidence, that the evidence which he doubts not has been produced to your lordships secret committee to justify this description, is wholly and entirely false, as your petitioner is ready
476"Your petitioner's entire ignorance of the views of the secret committee of your right honourable House, as well as his profound respect and extreme deference for every thing done within the walls of your right honourable House, are more than sufficient to restrain your petitioner from attempting even to guess at the reasons for your committee's having so closely connected the London Union Society' with the societies of 'Spencean Philanthropists;' but your petitioner humbly begs leave to assure your lordships, that he is ready and able to prove at the bar of your lordships, that there never has existed, between these societies, the smallest connexion of any sort, either in person or design, the object of the former being to obtain "a parliamentary reform, according to the constitution," while that of the latter, as appears from the report of your lordships committee, has been to obtain a common partnership in the land; and that, therefore, any evidence which may have been laid before the secret committee of your lordships to establish this connexion, is, as your petitioner is ready to prove at the bar of your lordships, wholly destitute of truth.475"It is not, however, on matters of opi-
475"Your petitioner presumes not to oppose his opinions against those of a committee of your right honourable House; but he hopes, that he may be humbly permitted to state, that when a bill was brought before your right honourable House by the late duke of Richmond, laying it down as a matter of principle, that annual parliaments and universal suffrage were the inherent and unalienable rights of Englishmen, the noble duke was not accused of a desire to produce "a total subversion of the British constitution.""'Others of these societies are called Union Clubs, professing the same object of parliamentary reform, but under these words understanding universal suffrage and annual parliaments—Projects which evidently involve not any qualified or partial change, but a total subversion of the British constitution. It appears that there is a London Union Society, and branch Unions corresponding with it, and affiliated to it. Others of these societies have adopted the name of Spencean Philanthropists; and it was by members of a club of this description that the plans of the conspirators in London were discussed and prepared for execution."'"Your petitioner begs permission humbly to state to your right honourable House, that he has read in the aforementioned report of the secret committee of your lordships, the following passage; to wit:"Humbly showeth, That it is with great reluctance, as well as humility, that your petitioner offers himself to the notice of, and prays for a hearing from your right honourable House; but that your petitioner, though a very humble individual, feels himself impelled by a sense of imperious duty, to beseech your right honourable House to pause, and to hear further evidence, before your right honourable House proceed to adopt legislative measures upon the report, now on the table of your right honourable House, from your late secret committee."The Petition of Thomas Cleary Secretary to the London Union Society."To the Right Honourable the Lords Spiritual and Temporal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in Parliament assembled.474 said, that a petition had been put into his hands, to be presented to their lordships, to the matter of which he was anxious to call their particular attention before they proceeded to the order of the day. The petition was from Thomas Cleary, the secretary to the London Union Society; and he was the more anxious to call their lordships attention to it now, because it might perhaps be the only opportunity which the individual might have of doing himself and others justice, before their lordships should have adopted measures founded on the report of the secret committee; and he had been given to understand since he came into the House, that it was the intention of ministers to propose the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act. When this report of the secret committee had been first read at the table, he had contended that the evidence on which the committee had founded their conclusions ought to be laid before their lordships, to enable them to judge whether these conclusions were supported by the evidence, before they adopted measures upon it; because, in a matter of such magnitude, it appeared to him that they ought to legislate cautiously, and, he might almost say, less violently than seemed to be at present in contemplation. The noble president of the council at that time met him with statements of practice and usage. He spoke then merely from a feeling of the gross impropriety of acting upon the report, without satisfying themselves, from inspection of the evidence, that the conclusions were just: but he was now provided with a precedent—that of 1794, when a very strong report, and also the evidence were produced. It had occurred to him, when he first heard the report read, that much of it consisted of inference from facts, rather than a statement of facts; and that it was therefore peculiarly desirable that their lordships should see the evidence. This feeling was considerably strengthened by the statements, in this petition, which might be true for any thing he knew to the contrary. Whether they were so or not, he could not take upon himself to say; but if they were true, they would not only throw considerable suspicion on the evidence from which the committee had drawn its conclusions, but show that very great injury had been done to the individual who now petitioned, as well as to other persons.—His lordship then read the petition as follows:
"THOMAS CLEARY.""And your petitioner will ever pray."Your petitioner is aware, that he has trespassed too long on the patience of your lordships; but, well knowing that your lordships seek only for truth as the basis of your proceedings, he humbly hopes that you will be pleased to excuse the earnestness of his present representation, and he also presumes humbly to express his hope, that your lordships will be pleased, in your great tenderness for the character and liberties of his majesty's faithful subjects, to consider whether it be not possible that your secret committee may have been misled, by what they may have deemed good evidence, as to other parts of their recent report; and, at the least, your petitioner humbly prays that your lordships will, in your great condescension, be pleased to permit your petitioner to produce all the books and papers of the London Union Society at the bar of your right honourable House, where your petitioner confidently assures your lordships that he is ready to prove all and singular the allegations, contained in this his most humble petition.477"What, then, must have been the surprise and the pain of your humble petitioner, when he saw, in the report of your lordships secret committee, this London Union Society represented, not only as being still in existence, but busily and extensively at work, establishing branches and affiliations, carrying on an active correspondence, infusing life into societies of Spencean Philanthropists, and producing, by these means, plans of conspiracy, revolution, and treason! And, though your petitioner is too well assured of the upright views and of the justice of every committee consisting of members of your noble and right honourable House not to be convinced that very strong evidence in support of these charges must have been produced to your lordships secret committee, your petitioner cannot, nevertheless, refrain from expressing most humbly his deep regret, that your lordships committee should not have deigned to send for the books and other testimonials of the character and proceedings of the London Union Society; and your petitioner humbly begs leave to observe, that this omission appears singularly unfortunate for the London Union Society, seeing that the secret committee of your lordships appear, in another part of their report, to lament the want of means of obtaining the written proceedings of societies, and seeing
477"Upon this important point your petitioner humbly begs leave to represent to your right honourable House, that the London Union Society was founded in 1812 by Mr. Edward Bolton Clive, Mr. Walter Fawkes, the late colonel Bosville, Mr. Montague Burgoyne, the present lord mayor, Mr. Alderman Goodbehere, Mr. Francis Canning, Mr. William Hallet, sir Francis Burdett, major Cartwright, Mr. Robert Slade, Mr. Timothy Brown, Mr. J. J. Clarke, and several other individuals equally respectable; that it continued to hold meetings but a very short time; that it never did any act except the publishing of one address to the nation on the subject of reform; that it never had any one "Branch;" that it never held any correspondence either written or verbal with any society of any sort; that it never was affiliated to any society, or branch, or any body of men whatsoever; finally, that it has not even met for nearly three years and a half last past; and, of course, that it is not now in existence.476"But the facts to which your petitioner is most anxious humbly to endeavour to obtain the patient attention of your right honourable House, relate to that affiliation and correspondence, which your lordships secret committee have been pleased to impute to the London Union Society, by observing that "it appears that there is a London Union Society, and Branch Unions, corresponding with it, and affiliated to it;" a description which seems, in the humble conception of your petitioner, to resemble that which was given of the London Corresponding Society, in 1795, and which, as your petitioner humbly conceives, point to measures of a nature similar to those which were then adopted; and your petitioner, though with all humility, ventures to express his confidence, that the evidence which he doubts not has been produced to your lordships secret committee to justify this description, is wholly and entirely false, as your petitioner is ready
476"Your petitioner's entire ignorance of the views of the secret committee of your right honourable House, as well as his profound respect and extreme deference for every thing done within the walls of your right honourable House, are more than sufficient to restrain your petitioner from attempting even to guess at the reasons for your committee's having so closely connected the London Union Society' with the societies of 'Spencean Philanthropists;' but your petitioner humbly begs leave to assure your lordships, that he is ready and able to prove at the bar of your lordships, that there never has existed, between these societies, the smallest connexion of any sort, either in person or design, the object of the former being to obtain "a parliamentary reform, according to the constitution," while that of the latter, as appears from the report of your lordships committee, has been to obtain a common partnership in the land; and that, therefore, any evidence which may have been laid before the secret committee of your lordships to establish this connexion, is, as your petitioner is ready to prove at the bar of your lordships, wholly destitute of truth.475"It is not, however, on matters of opi-
475"Your petitioner presumes not to oppose his opinions against those of a committee of your right honourable House; but he hopes, that he may be humbly permitted to state, that when a bill was brought before your right honourable House by the late duke of Richmond, laying it down as a matter of principle, that annual parliaments and universal suffrage were the inherent and unalienable rights of Englishmen, the noble duke was not accused of a desire to produce "a total subversion of the British constitution.""'Others of these societies are called Union Clubs, professing the same object of parliamentary reform, but under these words understanding universal suffrage and annual parliaments—Projects which evidently involve not any qualified or partial change, but a total subversion of the British constitution. It appears that there is a London Union Society, and branch Unions corresponding with it, and affiliated to it. Others of these societies have adopted the name of Spencean Philanthropists; and it was by members of a club of this description that the plans of the conspirators in London were discussed and prepared for execution."'"Your petitioner begs permission humbly to state to your right honourable House, that he has read in the aforementioned report of the secret committee of your lordships, the following passage; to wit:"Humbly showeth, That it is with great reluctance, as well as humility, that your petitioner offers himself to the notice of, and prays for a hearing from your right honourable House; but that your petitioner, though a very humble individual, feels himself impelled by a sense of imperious duty, to beseech your right honourable House to pause, and to hear further evidence, before your right honourable House proceed to adopt legislative measures upon the report, now on the table of your right honourable House, from your late secret committee."The Petition of Thomas Cleary Secretary to the London Union Society."To the Right Honourable the Lords Spiritual and Temporal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in Parliament assembled.474Earl Grosvenor
 rose to order. He considered it highly disorderly to impute to the members of a committee appointed by their lordships any motives, such as courting the favour of the House, which could influence them in the discharge of a public duty.The Duke of Montrose
478 said, if the noble duke had allowed him to finish his expression, it would have been found that he had no intention whatever of imputing motives to the members of the committee. All he meant to say was, that persons with a view of courting the favour of that House, of courting the favour of ministers
478Earl Grosvenor
 rose to order, and put it to the House, whether it was consistent with the order of their proceedings, that motives should thus be imputed to individuals?The Duke of Athol
 also rose to order, and asked whether it was fair thus to attack individuals, who not being members of that House, could not defend themselves?Lord Rolle
 declared the allusion to Mr. Bragge Bathurst, &c. to be most disorderly, nor could he consent to remain ten minutes longer in the situation which he held, if the House decided it to be in order. Nothing, indeed, could be more disorderly than the whole proceeding on this petition, which purported that the petitioner knew of a proceeding of that House, which he could not, consistently with the orders of the House, know any thing about, the report having-been presented for the use of the members of that House, and of them only.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that whatever might be the objects of persons out of the House, he was sure that no individual within it could think of promoting their objects by the introduction of disorderly proceedings in that House; but a more disorderly proceeding than this he had never witnessed. He denied that he was particularly called upon to take care that the orders of the House should be attended to; although he admitted that such was his duty equally with that of any other noble lord in the House. The noble lord had stated, that it was in contemplation to suspend the Habeas Corpus act. Had any thing been as yet said about the suspension of that act? If the report of the committee of the House of Commons had been brought up and laid on their lordships table, then he admitted that the noble lord might have referred to the proceedings, and mentioned the names of members of the other House: but no communication of the Commons report had been made to them, and they knew nothing whatever of it; therefore it was disorderly to refer to it. With respect to the report of their lordships committee, it had been ordered to be printed for the use of the members of the House only; and the petitioner could regularly know nothing of it. In his anxiety to see the orders of the House enforced, he might perhaps go too far; but he conceived that he was perfectly right in calling the noble earl to order; and if he was wrong, he was so far wrong, that he wished the House to say whether he was right or wrong, that he might know his situation.The Lord Chancellor
480† said, that the speech of the learned lord who bad just sat down, made in support of the orders of the House, was itself eminently disorderly, When any noble lord was called to order, the usage was, that no other lord should speak till that noble lord had an opportunity of giving the proper explanation; but, instead of arguing that point, the learned lord proceeded to charge his noble friend with being disorderly for having brought up the petition, and read it to
480†Lord Holland
481, notwithstanding all he had heard, maintained that the whole proceeding of the noble earl was disorderly; first, in his bringing the petition before the House, before the report of the committee could have been regularly known; second, in referring to measures as about to be proposed, of which the noble earl could, as yet, regularly know nothing. According to the strict rule of order, the noble earl might certainly have been interrupted at the outset; but for the sake of general convenience, there was always a disposition to indulgence in this respect, and therefore the noble lord had been suffered to proceed with the statement of the petition. The point, however, in which he conceived the noble earl to have been particularly disorderly was this; that the noble earl had grounded his statement on an assumption that measures were in contemplation of which he could, as yet, regularly know nothing. All that the noble earl knew was, that the secret committee had made a report, which was read in that House, which was ordered to be printed for the use of the members of that House, and which was to be taken this night into consideration; and yet the noble earl had cast an imputation on the ministers of the Crown, on a ground of which he could regularly know nothing. He knew that, for the sake of convenience, measures intended to be proposed to parliament were some-
481The Earl of Liverpool
 maintained that he was perfectly in order in making the allusion he did. He should have been utterly out of order to have named peers in that House, and he merely, therefore named those ministers who were in the other House. With regard to the petition he had presented, he contended it was of the greatest importance, particularly with a view to the measures to be founded upon the report of the secret committee, that it should be ascertained whether the allegations in that report were correct or not. The petitioner was now at the bar with the papers and books of the London Union Society ready to present them; ready also to adduce evidence, that with regard to that society the allegations in the report were unfounded, and he trusted their lordships would allow that testimony to be received. His lordship concluded by moving that the petition be read.Earl Grosvenor
482 objected to receiving the petition. Whatever might be the conduct in other societies, it was peculiarly incumbent upon that House to maintain inviolate the rules and orders of
482The Lord Chancellor
488 said, that, in his opinion, the arguments adduced by the noble lords opposite, were completely refuted by the spirited and argumentative speech of his noble friend (earl Grey). The petition was couched in respectful language; it distinctly stated that the committee had received, from some quarter or other, evidence that was not true; and it called for an inquiry into all the circumstances. In what a situation, then, would the committee be placed, if, after this was alleged, their lordships should reject the petition! The petitioner stated that they were ready, and able, and willing to prove, on oath, at the bar of the House, that the report of the secret committee, as far as it related to the Union Society, and the ramifications of that society, had not
488The Earl of Darnley
 was decidedly of opinion, that no sufficient reason had been urged why this petition should not be received. On the contrary, every reason, in his view of the subject, combined to urge its reception. He was as great an advocate as any noble lord for the maintenance of the rules and orders of their proceedings; but was it to be endured, that a rule was now to be practically applied for the first time, in order to do away the subjects right of petition? It had been already clearly shown, that for an injury done to the character of an individual by proceedings in parliament, he had no remedy in a court of law; and would their lordships take away all remedy by refusing the only means of redress, that of petitioning the House? It might be said that their proceedings were not public; but when it was known to every one that their proceedings were public, was it any answer to an individual to say, that he had no right to know what passed in that House, when he found himself in the ordinary intercourse of society deprived of his character in consequence of the publication of these proceedings? It was true that the committee had properly abstained from naming individuals, but the principle remained the same; the petitioner petitioned on behalf of himself and other respectable individuals connected with him to remove the stain upon them which resulted from the report of the committee, and surely the common and ordinary rules of justice demanded that they should be heard in their defence, and to disprove the allegations of the report involving their characters and conduct. He thought, therefore, the House were bound in justice to receive the petition and the evidence tendered.Lord Holland
485 said, he had heard no adequate reason whatever, why this petition should not be received. The report stated allegations, which it was alleged in the petition were untrue; was it not therefore of the greatest importance to ascertain the point? It was in vain to say that they did not know what measures were in contemplation; they had a right to consider the possibility of the suspension of the Habeas Corpus being resorted
485Earl Grosvenor
 observed, that the noble lords who opposed receiving the petition, did not prove that either in the details of its allegations, or in the spirit of its prayer, it attacked the forms of that House. What was, then, the ground of their objection? That it adverted to certain proceedings of that House, which the House alone was presumed by its forms to know. The objection, if it had force, was equally hostile to any petition being presented against bills. Indeed, there was no parliamentary proceeding against which, if justified, it would not be hostile. There was nothing in the stages of parliamentary progress lower than petitions on subjects to be entertained; yet the usage of parliament was, to receive counter-petitions. On resolutions of committees, frequently on reports of committees, it adopted the same course. He recollected well, that in the instance when a committee of that House reported the well-known Irish propositions, petitions, as numerous as were ever on any occasion presented, were received by that House, and that before any legislative measure, or any formal promulgation of such intention, was adopted by parliament.The Earl of Lauderdale
 briefly adverted to some passages in the petition, which he considered highly disrespectful to the committee of their lordships House, and formed a justifiable ground, even without any reference to the forms alluded to, for its rejection.The Duke of Athol
490 said, he felt the strongest disposition to treat every petition which might be offered with the greatest indulgence. Were there any ground for doubt, he should be disposed to hesitate before he rejected the present petition; but he saw no ground for any inquiry of the kind the noble lord had proposed. Not a word had been said to show that the petition was such a one as ought now to be received, or that any similar petition had ever been admitted to their lordships' table. It advanced assertions which the individual from whom it came had no means of proving. It inferred that certain measures were to be adopted of which he could know nothing. It had been said by the noble lords on the other side, that petitions against bills were equally objectionable; but this was not the fact, as the usage of parliament had decided the question with respect to the right of petitioning against them. With respect to the Irish propositions, to which a noble earl had referred, they afforded as little authority for the opinion which had been maintained. Those propositions in-
490The Earl of Liverpool
491 contended, that the noble earl had entirely failed in supporting the distinction that he had attempted to draw between the present case and that of the precedent of the Irish propositions. All former reports of the committee were not, according to the forms of parliament, promulgated; they were as much secret as the present report, to which the petitioner had adverted. Yet the table of that House was crowded with petitions. A noble duke had taken another and a better ground for rejection. But did the fact correspond with the objection? The present petition was, in no way, in his opinion, objectionable, as to the language in which it was couched. There were, as he understood, but two grounds on which the petitions of the subject could be refused; either when what was asked was out of the
491Lord Holland
 —As I had the honour of being a member of that committee of secrecy, whose report has been presented to this House, I feel solicitous to give my opinion on the subject of this petition. To that report, I assented, from the nature of the evidence that was before the committee. That evidence has been contradicted by the petition, both in point of fact and time; and therefore I should be exceedingly sorry that a petition containing such allegations should not be received. At all events I feel it a duty most seriously to press upon the consideration of the House the propriety of adopting the amendment of my noble friend.Earl Fitzwilliam.
492 said, that he was prepared, on coming down to the House that day, to have gone fully into the subject itself, and to have communicated the grounds on which his majesty's government felt it imperative to recommend the measure now about to be submitted to the consideration of their lordships. From the wish expressed by a number of the members of that House, he was willing to defer the discussion on the bill he then held in his hand until the second reading, which he
492Lord Sidmouth
 did not rise to offer any objection to the mode of proceeding proposed by the noble lord, whose conduct in the explanations he had given had appeared to him perfectly fair and candid; but he should be sorry, if his agreeing to the arrangement which had been suggested should lead any one to suppose, that he approved of the measures his majesty's ministers had in view. He, therefore, begged it might be clearly understood, that his consent to the present proposition by no means precluded him from opposing the bill. He hoped that the noble lord would, when he moved the second reading, enter fully into the grounds on which he proposed so extraordinary and important a measure. If it should still be determined not to lay the evidence on which the committee had founded their report before the House, it might at least be expected that ministers would consent to lay before their lordships the dates of the transactions referred to in the report, and also the dates of the information relating thereto, which had at different times been received by his majesty's government. He again said, he trusted that the ministers of the Crown would be able to come down to the House on Monday to show sufficient grounds for the measures they proposed. He trusted that, to induce parliament to adopt them at once, and in one day, the dates, circumstances, and extent of the practices that called for them, would be particularly pointed out, and satisfactorily supported.Lord Holland
489 observed, that it appeared to some noble lords as if there was no distinction to be made between the committee of their lordships House and the evidence that was produced before that committee. In his contemplation, there was a very manifest distinction, and on that distinction the petitioner seemed to ground his respectful application. He did not arraign the proceedings of the committee, but he offered to contradict the evidence it had examined. His petition alleged, that he has himself been misrepresented; and thus aggrieved, what other means were left him to defend himself from the injury, but the very course he has pursued? Against this course the learned lord on the woolsack has met the petitioner with, a new point of form, which he would contend had no foundation in any former precedent of their lordships' House. The question itself was of such serious importance, that he could not help pressing it upon the deliberative judgment and calm consideration of the House. As to the argument, he could
489Earl Grey
483 said, he entirely agreed with the noble and learned lord as to the maintenance of the rules and orders of that House, nor should the noble and learned lord stand alone in maintaining them. With the opinion of the noble and learned lord, however, that to receive this petition would be contrary to those rules and orders, and contrary to the constitution, he could not agree. He understood the constitution in a different sense. He had always understood it to be a principle of the constitution that no subject of the realm should suffer a wrong without the means of redress; but how would the case stand, if in such a case as this the subject was debarred from his right of petition. In consequence of the publication of reports of commitees of parliament affecting the character of Mr. Horne Tooke, that gentleman brought an action against the publisher of those reports. When the case came on for trial before lord Kenyon, then lord chief justice of the court of King's-bench, that learned judge at once refused to let the proceeding go on, stating that the proceedings of parliament were not cognizable in courts of law; and as he sometimes happily applied quotations, he made use of one in that instance, observing, that were the proceedings in parliament to become cognizable in courts of law, then "Chaos is come again." It having thus been determined that the subject, however his character might be affected by any proceeding in parliament, had no redress in a court of law, where was he to obtain redress except in parliament? It
483Earl Grey
479 said, it appeared to him, that those who now stood forward in support of the orders of the House were themselves the violators. What his noble friend had said contrary to order, he had yet to learn. He did not hear him impute improper motives to any man. What he understood him to say, and which he was ready to repeat after him, was this, that the effect of the measure now in contemplation would be to leave the liberties of the country at the mercy of the ministers of the crown. Then his noble friend had named certain members of the other House—whether discreetly or not was for his own consideration; but he believed it was not contrary to order to name in that House members of the other House. It appeared to him, therefore, that his noble friend had been most improperly interrupted, and chiefly by the learned lord on the woolsack, whose
479Earl Grey
484 did not think it necessary to follow the arguments of the noble earl, or to go through the statements of the petition. He should merely confine himself to the question of the order of the proceedings of the House, which it seemed to be the fashion, to call a technical objection. He could not so consider it, the objection arising out of the essential forms of the House, which it was of the highest importance to their proceedings should not be infringed. Such a question as this, besides, ought to be considered with a view to its consequences, and what must be the result if they received this petition? It would no doubt be followed by petitions from all the societies alluded to in the report, the Hampden Clubs and the Spencean Philanthropists, which would tend to embar-
484The Earl of Harrowby
487ex parte486 said, that he could not understand upon what principle the petition could be rejected, unless its language had been held to be insulting or disrespectful to the House. He could surely not be suspected of any vexatious opposition to government, since he had not been even once in his place during the last session, and for this short reason, because, though he could not change his opinions of the impolicy of the wars against France which it was too late to reconsider; yet he thought ministers entitled to credit for the successful termination of hostilities, and considering the period to be not then arrived for the adoption of a peace establishment, he had no object for attendance.
487ex parte486Lord Erskine
, before their lordships proceeded to the order of the day was desirous of saying a few words on a subject of great importance. Their lordships were about to adopt a measure of great severity, the necessity for which was said to be grounded on proceedings, evidently occasioned by the distress of the times. Now he would ventare to assert, that whilst their lordships were adopting proceedings against dangers supposed likely to arise, they were overlooking a mode by which much of the present irritation might be avoided. Their lordships must feel that every class of society, from the richest peer to the lowest labourer, were more or less affected by the pressure of the times, except, those who were supported out of the public revenue. In a few words which he addressed to their lordships, at the commencement of the session, he lamented that ministers had not advised their royal master to contract his expenses. Such advice had since been given, and a considerable portion of his royal highness's income had been given up. It might have been done with a better grace, and it would have had a much better effect, if the proposition was made on the first day of the session. He was happy to find, that a noble marquis had taken the earliest opportunity to follow that example, and had made a very considerable sacrifice for the benefit of the public. That example had not, as far as he knew, been acted on by any other noble lord, and he should be glad to learn whether an intention of imitating it existed.The Earl of Darnley
530 said, that in consequence of the removal of the property tax, which had been loudly called for by the noble lord, a necessity existed for continuing other taxes that bore more severely upon the poor. He would, therefore, ask of the noble lord who required such sacrifices from others.
530Lord Rolle
 said, he had guarded himself in what he had addressed to the House, from the observation which the noble lord had thrown out. He had stated, that every individual in the country, from the richest nobleman to the poorest peasant, felt, more or less, the pressure of the times, except those who were supported by the public revenue,—and, what he wished to know was, whether the example of the noble marquis, to whom he had alluded, was likely to be followed generally, by persons who received large sums of the public money.The Earl of Darnley
 said, the proposition of the noble earl was a partial, his was a general one.Lord Rolle
 said, he rose for the purpose of presenting a petition from Mr. Cleary similar to that which he had introduced on Friday, and which their lordships then rejected. In the course of the discussion that then took place, it was stated by the learned lord on the Woolsack, that it could not be received, because it alluded to the report of the secret committee, of; which the petitioner could not be cognizant, and because it referred to a measure not then before the House. He now tendered the petition in such a shape (all notice of the committee being omitted) as would, he trusted, prevent any objection to its being laid on the table.Earl Grovesnor
542s.541540 said, that the motion before their lordships was, that the petition be received, and to that motion he should offer no objection; but, notwithstanding the speeches which had been made by the noble earl now, and by the noble baron near him on the other night, he must say, that he had heard nothing which could induce him to alter his opinion, or to regret the vote which he had given. The noble earl had represented him to have said, that though the petition could not be received on Friday, there might be stages of a future measure in which a similar petition could he legitimately submitted to their lordships consideration. He had stated that in the progress of any bill, a petition against the principle of the proposed measure might, consistently with the privileges of their lordships, be brought under their notice; but that no petition of the nature of that of Friday, which not only complained of statements in a report which could not legitimately have come to the knowledge of the petitioner but also had reference to measures which the petitioner supposed to be in contemplation, was fit to be entertained. The petition now read was of a very different nature, inasmuch as it applied to a measure before the House. It came before their lordships under very different circumstances, and its prayer was also very different from that which the noble earl opposite wished
542s.541540The Earl of Liverpool
544543 was of opinion, that the reasons the noble secretary of state had assigned both for the rejection of the former petition, and for the receiving of the present, were equally unfounded; but, leaving that question, he should proceed to the point now immediately under consideration, which was of the greatest importance, both with respect to the present preservation of the people's rights, and as: handing down a memorable example to posterity. The noble earl had entered into some detail of argument to show, that the London Union Society referred to in the petition did now exist, either under the same or some other name; but their lordships would recollect, that it was not upon reasoning, but upon fact that they I had to decide. The committee, he was well convinced, had acted with the strictest honour, and to the best of their
544543Lord Holland
 presented a petition from Mr. Hunt, which was read as follows:Lord Holland
558557556555554553552 rose and observed, that whatever differences of opinion might exist as to this and other measures in contemplation, he was confident that no noble lord could have read and reflected upon the report of the committee upon the table
558557556555554553552Lord Sidmouth
565564563562561560pax est tranquilla libertas.559 began by observing, that this was a crisis which at once called for all the fortitude of the people and all the energy of the government. He was ready to allow, that the state of the popular mind was exactly such as had been described by one of the greatest statesmen of any age or country
565564563562561560pax est tranquilla libertas.559The Marquess Wellesley
568567566 in continuation, insisted that he must think the omission demanded a very serious consideration. With regard to the other points, the bill for regulating public meetings, he did not think it likely he should offer any opposition to it. He considered that bill essential, not only to the public security and the tranquillity of the country, but essential to the liberties of the people. Such meetings, he firmly believed, had been abused in a manner most hostile to the liberties of the subject; and it would be well for his majesty's ministers to consider, whether, it might not be expedient to prevent those meetings from assuming a shape of constitutional authority, which they would assume, if by adjournments and prorogations, they were allowed to hold their sittings indefinitely, and, as it were, menace the legislature. He thought, also, that other provisions of a very salutary character, might be introduced into the bill. But although agreeing so far, he must confess that the specific proposition, which the noble lord had submitted that night, was one in every respect ill adapted for the case and ill adapted to the temper and condition of the nation. He objected to it, because it put into the hands of unskilful power, the personal liberty of every man in the country.
568567566The Marquis Wellesley
573572571570569 allowed that it was perfectly just in the noble marquess who had last spoken, to consider, in one comprehensive point of view, all the circumstances which had apparently led to that situation of the country, which made the present regulations necessary; but, at the same time, he could not help observing, that some of the topics touched upon by the noble marquess had just as much to do with the particular topic then before their lordships, as with any that was ever discussed in parliament. Without following the noble marquess, therefore, through all his arguments, he should endeavour to reply to those which more immediately belonged to the question of that evening. Their lordships were aware, that some years ago (1812), the manufacturing parts of the country were in a distressed and dangerous state, in consequence of which certain papers were laid before both Houses of Parliament. Those papers were referred to a secret committee, and upon the report of that committee some new laws were framed to meet the evil; but it never was in the contemplation of government to adopt any measures similar to the present, because it was the firm conviction of that committee, that political opinions were not the foundation of the evils that then existed. There might, indeed, have been some remote connexion, but it was so remote as not to call for the kind of proceeding which it was now proposed to adopt. He would take another instance in which, though much mischief was meditated, yet it had not been thought necessary to pursue the present course. When a noble friend of his was at the head of the treasury, a most wicked and diabolical conspiracy was formed against the life of the king, by colonel Despard. That conspiracy was foiled, however, and the chief mover in it, with some of his associates, taken up, tried, condemned and executed. But, upon the discovery of it, neither his noble friend, nor the other members of government, thought that they ought to bring in a bill for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act. Why?
573572571570569The Earl of Liverpool
587 said, he was sorry to detain their lordships even for a moment longer at that late hour, but he could not reconcile it to himself to give a silent vote on this most important question. No man could possibly be more unwilling than he was to support any measure for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act;
587The Duke of Gloucester
588 did not mean to discuss the subject at any length in the present exhausted state of the House, and rose to say a few words, merely because, on a question of such magnitude, he could not rest satisfied with giving a silent vote. The general subject had been so well explained on both sides of the House, that it was unnecessary to recur to it. The only question was, whether the necessity existed for resorting to extraordinary measures; and then, if the necessity did exist for some extraordinary proceeding, whether the present measure was that which was best calculated to answer the intended purpose? His lordship then took an in-view of the crisis of 1795, and contended, that there was not the least similarity between that and the present period. He implored their lordships to look to France, and remember what had taken place there, in consequence of their Habeas Corpus act being suspended. He contended, it had not been proved that the present laws were inadequate, and he further maintained that they had not been duly and properly exerted. No man was more convinced than himself of the good motives by which the two noble lords opposite were actuated, but he cautioned the House to beware of giving them or any class of men, too much power. His lordship concluded an animated speech, with imploring their lordships to remember the sacred duty which they owed to themselves, their country, and posterity. The present measure was one which might be productive of more serious consequences than perhaps their lordships were aware of. Every time this act was suspended, was a stepping stone to doing so again, and its frequent suspensions might gradually convince the then existing government how mighty convenient it was to suspend it whenever their measures were attacked. Upon the whole, he could not think himself justified in voting for the second reading of the bill, because three previous requisites were wanting. In the first place, it had not been shown that the existing laws were inadequate to answer the purpose: secondly, it had not been shown
588Lord Holland
583s.l.l. said, that differing as he did from the noble lords opposite, he felt it his duty nevertheless to say, that he believed they acted from the purest motives; he believed that what they proposed, was from a regard to the constitution, yet he could not avoid saying, that from personal knowledge, he saw no grounds to believe that such a conspiracy ever existed as that which the noble lords over the way attempted to persuade the House. He was present at the examinations which had taken place before his worthy friend the present lord mayor, at the Mansion-house; he could not lend himself to support the idea of any conspiracy ever existing, and in this opinion he was the more confirmed, when he considered the amount of the subscription raised preparatory to the far famed 2d of December. That subscription, would their lordships believe it, amounted to no less than the formidable and enormous sum of ten pounds sterling! For the waggon hired on that memorable occasion, 1583s.l.l.The Duke of Sussex
582581laches580579578***577576575574 said, that at an earlier hour he might have been tempted to enter into all the circumstances of this most important question; but now it was utterly out of his power to acquit himself satisfactorily, even according to his humble abilities, in defending the cause of the people of England against the most unnecessary and most uncalled for attack upon their liberties which any minister of the crown, in any period of our history, had ever attempted. Though he thought his noble
582581laches580579578***577576575574Earl Grey
539538l.537ex-parteex-parte536, before he proceeded to make some observations on the statement which had been submitted to the House with respect to the grounds on which the committee had proceeded when they referred to the London Union Society, requested permission to congratulate their lordships upon the circumstance that they now saw no objection to the receiving of this petition. It would be a consolation even to those who voted against it the other night, and who must now be presumed to have done so with very great regret, to find that the time and the occasion were so soon arrived when they might indulge their feelings so far as to allow the petition to be laid on the table. But with respect to himself, who was not capable of applying to the consideration of the subject that nice discrimination which belonged to the learned lord on the woolsack and the noble lords on the other side of the House, he could not possibly see any grounds for the rejection of the petition before, which might not, with equal just-
539538l.537ex-parteex-parte536Earl Grey
531 said, if he were asked to give that species of relief to which the noble lord, who had just sat down, alluded, he would answer, "I will give no such assistance—I already pay in taxes, more than I can afford to pay." Advantageous as his situation was, when compared with that of other persons in the country, he could not suffer such a reduction of his income, without contracting some branch of his expenditure. He was not one of those who thought that the tax which his majesty's ministers had voluntarily imposed on themselves, was one which the country called for, or which they ought to accept. The public did not want a reduction of the salaries paid for efficient services, they demanded a diminution of the expense created by useless and unnecessary offices. This system of compulsory benevolence ought not, he conceived, to be followed. A general and oppressive tax, to make efficient offices pay, in order to protect and preserve those that were useless, was one that the country did not call for, and which would not answer. What was wanted in the way of economy and retrenchment—what the country called for demanded, and had a right to expect—what the people required, and what that House could not refuse—was, that every article of expense, even the most trifling, which the good of the state did not warrant, should be abandoned. This was the answer he should make to the noble lord on the cross-bench. Such was the character of the measures which his noble friends had supported—
531Earl Grey
eo nomine.s.533532 said, he did not rise to object to the receiving of the petition, which rested on very different grounds to that of the same individual presented to the House on Friday, and was now perfectly regular. He felt it necessary, however, to say a few words upon the question to which that petition referred, involving as it did the correctness of the report of the secret committee. He felt on Friday, that it would not be proper for him to attempt to state, from imperfect recollection, what was the nature of the evidence which induced the committee to come to that conclusion, which was denied by the petitioner. He felt this the more, he having had the honour of being the chairman of the committee. He had been therefore of opinion, that he ought upon such an occasion to speak only what he was authorized by the committee to state. The members of the committee had accordingly in the interverning time assembled, and had gone into an anxious examination of the evidence upon which they had founded their report. The result, he was authorized to state.
eo nomine.s.533532The Earl of Harrowby
 observed, that he did not smile at what the noble marquess had said; at the same time, if any thing which that noble marquess might utter should seem to him to deserve it, he would not manage his smiles from any respect to such feelings as the noble marquess had evinced.The Earl of Aberdeen
546545 said, he had heard with great satisfaction the construction now put upon the most alarming passage in the report, though he could by no means reconcile it with its language. When he first connected it with all that preceded and followed it, he had supposed that ministers were prepared to establish such a case as they acted upon in 1795. The proceedings of that period were fresh in his memory, and for ever must remain there; he had however read them over that very morning, with the most anxious attention, and was still utterly at a loss to discover a single point of resemblance between them. If he were asked, therefore, upon such evidence to suspend the Habeas Corpus, he should answer, that he could only suspend his judgment. In 1795 his majesty by his message informed the House, not as now, that from general report he suspected mischievous combina-
546545Lord Erskine
ex parte535534 said, that when the subject was under consideration on a former occasion, he had felt himself in the same situation as the noble earl who had just sat down. This, however, he was sure of, from a very jealous attention to the conduct of the committee, that nothing like any intention to deceive had ever existed on their part, when he had heard the statement in the petition, his first desire was again to see and examine the evidence: and if, upon such examination, it should appear that the committee had fallen into any error, it was his most anxious wish that the very earliest opportunity should be taken of clearing up that error. It was: no degradation to any one to acknowledge an error into which he might have accidentally fallen; the degradation would have been in persevering in it, where error had been discovered. Pie assured their lordships therefore, that he had at first gone to the examination of the papers, as if he had gone into a jury-box, to form the best judgment he could upon the evidence laid before him. He went back again to the consideration of the evidence with the same feeling, and with the conviction, that if any error should be discovered, the amount of that error ought: to be distinctly and immediately stated. The noble earl who had just sat down had I shown, that whatever misapprehension
ex parte535534Lord Grenville
586585584 said, he considered the question now before their lordships, to be one of the most important that had ever engaged the attention of parliament, and while he was fully aware of that importance, he trusted their lordships would give him credit when he said, that no man in that House or in the country could have more hesitation than he had in sanctioning the measure now proposed for their lordships adoption. It was not a light consideration at any time, but more especially in a time of peace, to suspend an act which was justly considered as the palladium of British liberty; and nothing could justify such suspension, but a deliberate conviction, that the amount of the necessity was really such as to justify, for the shortest time possible, this inroad upon one of the bulwarks of our constitution. His noble friend had well observed, that the proper question before their lordships was, whether, at this important crisis, there was such a case made out, as would justify their lordships in suspending the Habeas Corpus act. That, and that only, was
586585584Lord Grenville
778 would say nothing as to the general question, whether
778The Earl of Liverpool
780779 said, it was true that this measure was not new in principle; but this
780779Lord Holland
777776**** rose, pursuant to notice, to propose an amendment. The bill he said, contained a clause of a very peculiar description, stating, that whereas his royal highness the Prince Regent, and many persons holding public offices, were desirous of contributing a certain proportion of the incomes derived from these offices, towards the public service, it was enacted, that it should be lawful to give the proper instructions to the officers of the exchequer to receive such contributions, &c.777776****Lord Redesdale
826, previous to proceeding to the order of the day respecting the Habeas Corpus Suspension bill, it appearing
826Lord Holland
 said, he was called upon to give an opinion without the particular circumstances of any particular case being stated; but he felt anxious, when thus called upon, to give an opinion, as far as he could, regarding any question relating to the liberty of the subject; and he had no hesitation in stating generally, that he was not aware of the existence of any individual who had not the right of petitioning either the sovereign or the parliament.The Lord Chancellor
 observed, that knowing the manner in which some prisons were conducted, he was anxious that it should be distinctly understood, that no gaoler could prevent the exercise of the right of petitioning on the part of any individual who might be unfortunately placed in his custody by order of government, and detained under the extraordinary powers given by this bill.Lord Holland
827 said, that every individual arrested on suspicion of treason, by order of government, and detained under the provisions of this bill, had in his favour the presumption of law, which always supposed every person under accusation to be innocent until proved to be guilty; and as far as he could answer a general question, every individual in that situation had the right of
827The Lord Chancellor
bona fide said, he was perfectly ready to agree in the explanation which the noble earl had made for him, with these qualifications, that the individual should have every facility allowed him, consistently with his safe custody, and that he should bona fideThe Lord Chancellor
828 could not let this opportunity pass without entering his decided protest against the measure, which he conceived to be uncalled for by any circumstances connected with the situation of the country. He could not help observing also upon the extreme rapidity with which that House had been induced to pass this bill, whilst the Commons had taken a much longer time to deliberate upon it, without, as it should appear, any apprehension of danger from delay, though
828The Earl of Darnley
, as the amendment was not objected to, did not think it necessary to say more than a few words. With regard to the objection that this bill was passed through the House with unprecedented haste, he assured their lordships that in point of fact it was not so, as on former occasions within his own recollection a similar bill had passed through all its stages in that House in one day, whilst on the present occasion two days had been occupied in the consideration of the measure. With respect to the necessity for the bill, he could most positively affirm that on no former occasion when he or when the noble lord who had just spoken had voted for a similar measure, was there a greater necessity for it that at the present moment.The Earl of Liverpool
829‡ contended, that more time ought to have been given for the pe-
829‡Earl Grosvenor
 thought it right to state, that though the petition alluded to by the noble earl was respectably signed, yet that the persons who signed it did not constitute the major part of the most respectable inhabitants of that city.The Bishop of Chester
, in explanation, said, he had only asserted that the petition was most respectably signed, he did not mean to state that there were not other highly respectable inhabitants of the city who had not signed it.Earl Grosvenor
830 observed, that in consequence of the unnecessary rapidity with which that House had been called upon to pass the bill, they had had no opportunity allowed them of considering that part of it which related to Scotland, and in which a most important amendment had been made by the Commons. What was to be thought of those who had urged on the House to that rapid course of proceeding, which had not left them time to discover or to rectify a most material error in the bill, though the Commons had been allowed a sufficient opportunity to consider the measure in all its bearings. He alluded to the difference which was made in the bill, as it passed that House, between the people of England and the people of Scotland. In England no individual could be detained under the provisions of this bill, unless arrested by a warrant signed by a secretary of state, or six privy counsellors on their responsibility; whilst in Scotland individuals might be arrested by any inferior magistrate, without responsibility, and could not be released or put upon their trial, without a warrant signed by a secretary of state or six privy counsellors. These enactments, which placed the people of Scotland in a much worse situation
830The Earl of Rosslyn
 said, he had wished to have merely given his support to this bill, by his silent vote, for which, however, he was just as much responsible as if he had publicly declared his opinion. But what had been urged by the noble lord with regard to the amendment, rendered it necessary for him to say a few words. In 1794, when a similar measure was proposed, he himself had a considerable knowledge of Scots law, from having been employed more perhaps, than any Englishman before his time, in Scots appeals, at the bar of that House, and he framed the bill, in concert with the late lord Loughborough, who then sat on the woolsack, and who, joined to an intimate knowledge of the law of England, had also a peculiar knowledge of the law of Scotland. That learned lord approved of the bill as then drawn, and no objection was made to it; a similar bill had subsequently passed, and the present bill was a transcript of those. He thought, then, that the bill was right, and he still thought that this bill, as originally introduced, was right; he would not, however, object to the amendment, because rather than any farther delay should take place in the passing of this bill, which, in his conscience, he believed to have been never more necessary than at the present moment, he would agree to the bill as amended, He could not help, however, saying, that in his opinion, the amendment made the bill infinitely worse, both as it regarded the situation of the individual, and the magistrates in England and Scotland.The Lord Chancellor
831 said, the House had been. very hardly dealt with in the proceedings with regard to this bill, no satisfactory explanation having been given with respect either to the bill, or to the particular clause which had been amended, or as to why the House should be called upon to pass the bill with such an extraordinary rapidity; nor even now, when the learned lord declared the amendment made the bill worse, had he condescended to state the reason why it did so. With respect to the haste in which the bill had been passed, he was aware that there were precedents for it; but
831Lord Holland
832 also contended, that no reason whatever appeared sufficient to authorize this measure. Whatever he had been able to ascertain, tended, on the contrary, to prove that no necessity existed for such a measure as the present. It was not because some poor wretches chose to set up for conspirators, that the whole people of England and Scotland were to be deprived of their liberties. Adam Smith had justly said, that the desire to have any thing did not create a demand for it, unless there were the means to procure it. So with respect to some low and illiterate men, they might desire to be conspirators, but where were their means? If they possessed no means of carrying their conspiracy into effect, how could they become formidable to the state? In Glasgow, for instance, where much had lately been said about arrests, who were the people arrested Poor and illiterate men, who had no means whatever of doing mischief, at least that
832The Earl of Lauderdale
 asked: whether it was the intention of ministers to stop the distillation from corn in Ireland? From the information he possessed relative to the north of Ireland, he thought that measure highly necessary.The Earl of Darnley
 said, the subject had received the most thorough consideration on the part of his majesty's ministers, and it was not thought that the measure alluded to by the noble lord would now be proper. The stopping of the distilleries now would only tend, by a rise of price, to give enormous profits to persons who had a large stock on hand; and besides, the little advantage which might have been derived from the measure would now be lost, as it would be peculiarly injurious to those parts of the country which had much bad corn to dispose of.The Earl of Liverpool
837 was aware that the stopping of the distilleries was a measure which at all times tended to throw enormous profits into the hands of some individuals; but the noble earl was quite mistaken, if he supposed that, by keeping the distilleries open, he would promote the
837The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, the answers given by the learned lord were perfectly satisfactory to him, as to the general question. There was, however, this consideration, that a barren right was nothing without the means of exercising it. In some prisons, individuals might be confined without pen, ink, or paper being allowed to them, or the means of communicating with any person. Under ordinary circumstances this might not be of so much consequence, as they knew the time would arrive when they should have an opportunity of appearing in the face of their country; but under the provisions of this bill they could have no such knowledge, they could not anticipate how long they might be detained. It was therefore of the greatest importance that no individual in this situation should be deprived of his right of petitioning; and he concluded that the learned lord, from the way in which he had answered the question, meant also this, that a gaoler having an individual under such circumstances in his custody, would be acting illegally, if by any means he prevented that individual from communicating with other persons, or from other means connected with the exercising of his right of petitioning.Earl Grey
836ex-parte835834833 wished to make a few re-
836ex-parte835834833Earl Grey
 defended the report of the secret committee. It was a report which had been unanimously agreed to, although the noble lords of whom the committee had been composed were of different political opinions. The same was the case with respect to the report of the secret committee of the House of Commons. Both reports stated distinctly that the existing laws were not sufficient to meet the danger with which the public peace was menaced. The question, therefore, was as to the degree of sedition in the country, all agreeing that sedition there was. Was it of a magnitude sufficient to require a measure of the kind which had been introduced? In his opinion it decidedly was. A noble earl had said that an offer had been made to disprove at the bar the facts on which the report was founded. This he denied. There was nothing in the statements adverted to which affected the character of the report. With respect to the London Union Society, although it might not exist at present, its printed resolutions were spread and adopted throughout the country, in which it had formerly established an extensive correspondence. The proceedings of the Sheffield Union Society were proof of this. The noble earl, in speaking of the amendment had argued as if it exhibited great inaccuracy on the part of their lordships to allow such an error to have passed unnoticed. The learned lord on the woolsack had, however, told their lordships that the provisions of the bill, when it left their lordships House, were the same as they were in the bills for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus at former periods. The noble earl had closely attended the proceedings on some of those former bills, and yet, somehow or other, this gross, error, as he termed it, had always escaped his attention. Nothing had been stated to show that Scotland had particularly suffered from the former bills; and certainly, therefore, the renewal of the same provisions in the present bill afforded no proof whatever of censurable hurry.Earl Bathurst
903902 was desirous of saying a few words, which might as well embrace both the bills now before the House. To the bill for the better protection of the Prince Regent, he did not mean to object; but he could not help lamenting that greater care had not been employed in drawing up these bills instead of leaving some points vague and undefined, and others open to ambiguity. Thus, in the army and navy seduction bill, which was made parpetual, all the enactments in the expired act of that nature were revived, although one of them was for limiting the duration of that act, which was altogether at variance with the clause in the present bill rendering it perpetual. The punishment for the treason created by the treasonable practices bill, it was also enacted should be the same as in the former act, although since the passing of that act, in 1799, the punishment had been altered by law. Under this bill also, as it stood there might arise doubts as to whether the provisions of an act passed in the reign of William 3d, and of another in the reign of queen Anne, intended to mitigate the situation of persons accused of high treason,
903902Lord Holland
904 observed, that although recent circumstances might have immediately occasioned the introduction of these bills, yet he wished it to be understood, that had these circumstances not happened, it was his opinion, as well as that of others, that the enactments contained in these bills should be proposed. With respect to the army and navy seduction bill he had conceived it to have been originally a permanent act, and it was entirely through inadvertence that the law was suffered to expire in August last. His opinion, and that of others was, that it ought to be a permanent law, and though he admitted the justice of the general principle, that by increasing the severity of the punishment you lessoned the facility of detection, yet, he contended, that this law was an exception, inasmuch as it would operate by intimidation to prevent the offence. With respect to the treasonable practices bill, he was also of opinion without reference to recent circum-
904The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that with respect to the army and navy seduction bill, it was undoubtedly proper that words should be introduced to prevent the re-enactment of a clause in the former act rendering it temporary. With regard to the question of reviving former acts without specifying the enactments, it would be improper where it referred to a great body of laws like the customs or excise laws; but when it was only a short act easily referred to, he saw no impropriety in thus reviving it without specifically mentioning the enactments. With regard to the punishment of treason in the treasonable practices bill, it certainly ought to be made what it now was by law, and an amendment could be introduced to this effect on Monday. As to that bill itself, it was merely enacting that to be treason which was already considered to be treason, and, this was merely done to avoid any dispute. His lordship observed, that it had been his official duty to prosecute a man for attempting to seduce the soldiery, soon after the former act respecting this offence passed, who was capitally convicted and since that, until August last, when the act expired, no instance of this crime had occurred. He was therefore decidedly of opinion, that this law would operate by intimidation to prevent the offence.The Lord Chancellor
905 thought that no necessity had been shown foe this measure. Where was it to be found that any at
905Earl Grosvenor
906 thought it necessary again to call the attention of ministers to the distressed state of the people in many parts of Ireland, in consequence of the scarcity of provisions. Unless some remedy was speedily applied, the most serious consequences were to be apprehended. Riots, it was known, had already taken place in some quarters, in consequence of the distress of the people, and the fact was, that unless some remdy was promptly applied, there would be absolute want in some districts, where the existing scarcity was aggravated by the difficulty of transporting provisions. He was not aware of the information upon which ministers had acted, in refusing to suspend the distillation in Ireland, but he should feel it his duty on an early day to move for that information. They, it seemed, were of opinion that the distillation had gone on so far during the present season, that what remained of grain would be of no consequence to the general supply, or not fit for human food. If he could at all
906The Earl of Darnley
 said, that this subject had occupied and was now occupying the most anxious attention of his majesty's ministers. He was decidedly of opinion that the suspension of the distilleries would only tend to increase illicit distillation, and not in the smallest degree add to the food of the people. The distress felt in some parts of Ireland arose from the difficulties that existed in transporting provisions from a quarter where there was plenty to one where there was a scarcity. There was certainly no deficiency of supply in the united kingdom, taking it as a whole, and there was no doubt that the present high prices would draw into our ports whatever further supply was wanted. Under these circumstances the greatest caution was necessarily required, because the interfering with such a subject frequently did more harm than good. No exertion, however, should be wanting on the part of his majesty's ministers to remedy the evil.The Earl of Liverpool
4. "That it is more especially the duty of the House to adopt the foregoing resolutions at a period of unusual difficulty and distress, and of universal petition for economical reform and retrenchment."9523. "That for the future no places should be granted by the Crown in reversion, as tending to prolong and perpetuate useless
9522. "That all useless places should be abolished or regulated forthwith.1. "That it is the opinion of this House that all sinecures in the patronage of the Crown ought to be abolished after the expiration of the subsisting interests.
4. "That it is more especially the duty of the House to adopt the foregoing resolutions at a period of unusual difficulty and distress, and of universal petition for economical reform and retrenchment."9523. "That for the future no places should be granted by the Crown in reversion, as tending to prolong and perpetuate useless
9522. "That all useless places should be abolished or regulated forthwith.1. "That it is the opinion of this House that all sinecures in the patronage of the Crown ought to be abolished after the expiration of the subsisting interests.l.l.,l.951That, husht in grim repose, expects his evening prey."Regardless of the sweeping whirlwind's swayYouth at the prow, and pleasure at the helm,In gallant trim, the gilded vessel goes;Whilst proudly riding o'er the azure realm"Fair laughs the morn, and soft the zephyr blows,950949l.948l.947The post of honour is a private station;""When vice prevails and impious men bear sway,946 rose, pursuant to notice, to submit some resolutions to the House on the subject of sinecures, useless places, and the granting of offices in reversion. The subject, he observed, was at all times important, but particularly important at the present moment, considering the state of the public mind; but he did not agree with the noble earl opposite, who had on a former occasion said, that it was not material that the matter should be brought under discussion at an earlier period of the session. The noble earl probably alluded to certain measures which were stated to be in contemplation for the reduction of sinecures and useless places; but he did not feel himself justified in placing much reliance on hopes held out by ministers; and more especially on a subject like this. What he contended for was this—that their lordships ought to take the subject into their own hands, and give a distinct and solemn pledge to the country upon it. It was, however, with considerable pain that he now brought the matter under discussion, not merely on account of the delicacy of the subject, and the prejudices connected with it—not merely on account of the negatives which he had met with, when on former occasions he called the attention of the House to this matter; but also on account of the critical situation of the public mind. In looking at that situation, he could not view it without something like despondency; not from any such alarms as the noble lords opposite felt, but from the mistaken notion which the executive government appeared to entertain of the character, of the people of England. They totally misunderstood the open, generous, liberal, and manly character of the people, whom they
4. "That it is more especially the duty of the House to adopt the foregoing resolutions at a period of unusual difficulty and distress, and of universal petition for economical reform and retrenchment."9523. "That for the future no places should be granted by the Crown in reversion, as tending to prolong and perpetuate useless
9522. "That all useless places should be abolished or regulated forthwith.1. "That it is the opinion of this House that all sinecures in the patronage of the Crown ought to be abolished after the expiration of the subsisting interests.
4. "That it is more especially the duty of the House to adopt the foregoing resolutions at a period of unusual difficulty and distress, and of universal petition for economical reform and retrenchment."9523. "That for the future no places should be granted by the Crown in reversion, as tending to prolong and perpetuate useless
9522. "That all useless places should be abolished or regulated forthwith.1. "That it is the opinion of this House that all sinecures in the patronage of the Crown ought to be abolished after the expiration of the subsisting interests.l.l.,l.951That, husht in grim repose, expects his evening prey."Regardless of the sweeping whirlwind's swayYouth at the prow, and pleasure at the helm,In gallant trim, the gilded vessel goes;Whilst proudly riding o'er the azure realm"Fair laughs the morn, and soft the zephyr blows,950949l.948l.947The post of honour is a private station;""When vice prevails and impious men bear sway,946Earl Grosvenor
956l.955954953 observed, that the noble earl who had just sat down began the speech which contained the grounds on which he had submitted his resolutions to their lordships consideration with a general eulogium on the loyalty of the people, which he seemed to think there was a disposition on the part of government and parliament to libel. He should be glad to know whom the noble earl considered as the people of England? Was it those who were disaffected to the government and constitution of the country? Was it those who had lately assembled at certain meetings—the meetings at Spa-fields, and others of a similar description—whom he considered as the people of England? In the noble earl's general eulogium on the loyalty of the people, he was sincerely disposed to concur; but he believed that no man who fairly considered what had recently been the state of the country, what the probable effect of the treasonable practices which had been disclosed, but would agree that precautionary measures were necessary; not indeed on the supposition of disloyalty in the great body of the people, and therefore not adopted against them; but for the protection of a loyal people against those who wished to seduce and demoralize them. When the noble earl said that the bill which had passed for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, and those now in their progress before parliament, had excited discontent and dismay, he asserted what appeared to him completely contradictory to the real state of the case. Where were there any evidences of discontent or dismay since these measures had been originated? Let the noble lord, on the contrary, compare the despondency which existed a few weeks ago, with the state of the public mind now, and judge fairy of the difference. What had been the effect of the measures introduced by his majesty's government, and already, in part, sanctioned by parliament? It was to be seen in the removal of that apprehension and despondency which had prevailed; it was to be seen in the ameliorated state of the public mind and public
956l.955954953The Earl of Liverpool
l.957§in limine said, it had been often observed, that persons entertaining different political questions saw things in very different lights; and that observation was never more applicable than to the different accounts given by his noble friend and the noble earl opposite (Liverpool) of the opinion now entertained with regard to the measures lately resorted to, and the impression which those measures had made on the public mind. Many circumstances were calculated to have a considerable effect on the public funds, but he never should have expected to be told that the suspension of the British constitution was calculated to produce a favourable effect on the funds. He should much rather have been disposed to attribute any rise in the funds to an understanding that considerable reductions were about to be made in the public expenditure. The noble earl had also described the measure to which he attributed this beneficial effect as a precautionary one. Now this seemed quite anew way of viewing it. If he had at all understood the way in which the measure was proposed by ministers, it was for the purpose, not of preventing, but of putting down sedition. A great deal had also been said by the noble earl about the difficulty of defining what a sinecure office was. The noble earl had misconceived what his noble friend said. An office might be not a sinecure, and yet the person who held it a sinecurist, if the business was done by deputy. Though the office might be an efficient one, and required security to be given by the individual who held it, yet if the business was done by deputy, the individual holding the office was purely a sinecurist. The noble earl opposite had said there was an objection l.957§in limineLord St. John
961960l.l.,l.,l.l.l.,l.959958 could not concur in opinion either with his noble friend who moved the resolutions or with the noble secretary of state. His noble friend had described the difficulties which the country experienced from the weight of taxation. The fact was that the landed
961960l.l.,l.,l.l.l.,l.959958The Earl of Lauderdale
962 had no hesitation in admitting that the constitution of parliament was much better with respect to the influence of the Crown than it once was. If, however, no other argument could be found for the abolition of sinecures, yet it ought to be accomplished for this single reason—that such a measure comprehended the general principle of a disposition to reform. When the times were so severely pressing as the present were, he thought some attention and respect should be paid to the public voice. The country
962The Earl of Darnley
 had no objection: to withdraw the previous question, if it were agreeable to the noble lords upon the opposite side, and hoped should such be the mode of proceeding adopted, that their lordships would, by a direct vote, completely and at once negative the proposition.The Earl of Liverpool
968967plusversusversus966965964963Ecce iterum Crispinus, thought the noble secretary of state had great reason to flatter himself on the accession of strength which he had obtained on this question; but the principle of it was by no means affected by that circumstance. He objected to the noble earl's withdrawing his motion for the previous question. It was at the option, of the House to permit that noble earl to withdraw it or not, and he had his reasons for wishing their lordships to refuse him that permission. The great questions which had deservedly agitated all persons within and without those walls, had formed part of this night's discussion. These were, the generally discontented state of the public mind, and the late suspension of the Habeas Corpus act. He did not exactly see the relation between the latter and the question before their lordships; but as it had been again introduced, 968967plusversusversus966965964963Ecce iterum Crispinus,Lord Holland
 presented a Petition from Belfast, complaining of the dearness and scarcity of grain, and praying the distilleries might be stopped. His lordship said he did not mean now to go into the subject, but he reserved to himself the right of bringing forward a motion respecting it at a future period, if he should deem it advisable. He must, however, repeat what he had before stated, that ministers had incurred a heavy responsibility in not stopping the distilleries early in the season. In having called the attention of the House to this most important subject, he could not but regret that he had not had the assistance of any of the peers who more immediately represented Ireland, who could have more satisfactorily detailed the general situation of that part of the United Kingdom.The Earl of Darnley
1080 protested against the doctrine of responsibility attaching to the executive government, for not interfering with regard to the subsistence of the people. If it was thought right that the distilleries should be stopped when grain reached a certain price, let it be so enacted by law, but nothing could be more unwise than to leave it to the discretion of the executive government, because with the most honest intentions the executive government was very liable upon such a subject to be misled. They would necessarily have various accounts from different quarters, in one part a good harvest, and in another a bad one; and nothing could be more mischievous than to leave it to the executive government to strike a balance between conflicting and opposite interests. He thought that in only one instance within his recollection, had the distilleries been rightly stopped, and that was in 1802, when one bad harvest followed another. He was of opinion that the wisest course of policy was, to leave the subsistence of the people entirely free, but as under the circumstances of the country a free trade in grain could not exist, the next best policy was to enact specific regulations, so that all parties interested might at once know what was to
1080The Earl of Liverpool
, while he agreed in the general principles stated by the noble earl, still thought that the information ought to be produced upon which ministers had come to the determination of not stopping the distilleries in Ireland, under the circumstances of distress which existed in that country, certainly to a considerable extent.The Earl of Darnley
11461145l.l.l.l.l.1144114311421141114011391138 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for papers connected with the personal treatment of Napoleon Buonaparté at St. Helena. Humanity alone might justify this motion referring as it did to the individual who had in so extraordinary a manner been exiled to the island of St. Helena: but his chief, if not his only motive for bringing the subject under their lordships' consideration was, to rescue the character of parliament, of the Crown, and of the country, from the stain which must attach to it if any harsh or ungenerous treatment had been resorted to with respect to it. He certainly felt, however, that the cause might suffer from being undertaken by himself, differing so widely as he did from his majesty's government both on questions of general policy, foreign and domestic, and on the particular policy which they had pursued in the detention and exile of Napoleon Buonaparté. He felt it necessary, therefore, before he proceeded to state the grounds of his motion distinctly to disclaim any intention at the present moment of renewing the discussion on that policy. However proper it might be on other occasions to agitate that topic, it was his wish that it should have no connexion with his present motion. It was not with the vain hope that he could produce any alteration in the principles of policy on which ministers had acted with reference to the detention of Buonaparté, that he made this motion; and as little was it with the view of incul-
11461145l.l.l.l.l.1144114311421141114011391138Lord Holland
 "I have not received this information from foreigners alone."Lord Holland
116311621161 contended, that no one could hesitate to give his noble friend, who brought forward this motion, the greatest credit for good intentions and upright views. Nobody who knew the pure and honourable mind of his noble friend could for a moment doubt the integrity of his motives, or the laudable nature of the object which he proposed to accomplish: notwithstanding this, he (Lord B.) lamented that his noble friend had taken his present course, because he was afraid that his motives, honourable as they were, might be misrepresented, and his conduct lead to misconception both in this country and over Europe. He confessed that he himself did not come to the consideration of the subject with any of the feelings of his noble friend, or perhaps with those feelings that he ought to entertain. He
116311621161The Marquis of Buckingham
 did not feel that hostility towards the individual under confinement at St. Helena, professed by the noble marquis; and though he agreed with him that they were called on to take such measures as the security of his person demanded, still it was their duty to see that no unnecessary severity was used towards him. Feeling an anxiety for the character of the country, which was affected by the reports in circulation on this subject, he could not but be pleased that his noble friend had brought forward the present motion, which had afforded an opportunity to the noble earl opposite to make the candid and able statement by which the allegations on which the motion was founded were certainly entirely refuted. After the facts disclosed by the noble secretary of state, he did not think that his noble friend ought to press his motion any farther.The Earl of Darnley
116611651164 thought the charges were of such a kind and of such magnitude, that in opposition to one of his noble friends, he must persist in thinking that they called for contradiction; and, in opposition to the other, that they were not yet sufficiently contradicted. That contradiction ought to rest, not on the declaration of a minister, but on documentary evidence. He could not accept, therefore the compliments of the former to his motives, while he lamented his conduct; nor the thanks of the latter, for the statements which he had given the noble secretary an opportunity of making, while he did not think that statement satisfactory. He was not disposed to pay much attention to the construction that might be put on his motives: both because he was conscious of their rectitude, and because, in obeying them, he was convinced he had done an essential service to his country. No praise on the goodness of the intentions by which he was actuated would make him surrender the impression of the service he had accomplished. He rejoiced that he had made a motion which produced a contradiction of charges that were injurious to the honour of the country. He should
116611651164Lord Holland
11601159l.l.l.l.l.1158l.l.l.l.l. It was of no consequence whence the intimation came. It was altogether groundless. There was no mention at the congress of such a proposition. As to the expense of the establishment of general Buonaparté at St. Helena, it had been at first from the want of arrangements for regular supplies, unavoidably great; but it had always been in contemplation when those arrangements were made that the expenditure should be considerably reduced. The permanent expense of the establishment of Buonaparté had from the first been fixed at 8,00011601159l.l.l.l.l.1158l.l.l.l.l.Earl Bathurst.
115711561155115411531152affectionatel.11511150114911481147 rose. He said, that in part, he agreed with the noble mover's observation, that an opinion respecting the justice or injustice of the detention of Napoleon Buonaparté should have no effect on the discussion of the present question. He had no hesitation in agreeing with the noble lord, that those who considered the detention of Napoleon Buonaparté not only necessary, but just, might object to the mode of that detention;
115711561155115411531152affectionatel.11511150114911481147Earl Bathurst
1203 said, it was not his intention to detain the House long, as he understood that any objections that might be made, would go rather to some of the provisions of the bill, than to its principle. Since the outrage against the Prince Regent, and the report of their lordships committee, three bills had passed the legislature—one for giving his royal highness the same protection as his majesty had, and rendering the provisions perpetual as to both; another to punish, with greater severity than before, any attempt to seduce soldiers and sailors from their allegiance; and the third, for detaining in custody certain persons suspected of being concerned in treasonable practices. With respect to the two first of these bills, it would have been wise and proper to pass them, though the circumstances which had occasioned the passing of the other, had not existed. The third bill was founded on the information which the executive government had laid before their lordships committee, and on which the committee had reported, that there existed a traitorous conspiracy for the subversion, by means of a general insurrection, of the government, laws, and constitution of this kingdom; and the committee, at the close of the report, stated, that farther provisions were necessary for the preservation of the public peace.— What were the circumstances that led the committee to that conclusion? They must have been such as convinced the committee, that the existing laws were not sufficient to meet the evil, chiefly because, under the law as it stood, it was in the power of a few persons to bring together, without the sanction of any recognized authority, in the neighbourhood of great towns, where distress and discontent prevailed, the turbulent and the factious of every description, to consider and discuss the state of the country. But it did not depend merely on the statement of the committee, for it was notorious, that, at meetings so called, ill-disposed persons took the opportunity, with such dexterity as to evade the law, of inflaming the minds of the people, leading them from discontent to sedition. This was the danger which the committee had in contemplation when
1203Lord Sidmouth
1204 said, he did not know what had led the noble secretary to conclude, that there was no difference of opinion as to the principle of the bill, as he had distinctly intimated his objections to it. He had considerable objection to all the clauses of it, except one; which was very like an objection to the principle. However, he would reserve what he had to say upon the principle of the measure, till the third reading, when he should have an opportunity of seeing the bill as it came out of the committee. In the mean time, he could not but state, that he saw no necessity for joining the temporary and permanent provisions in one bill. It was an aukward manner of legislating, and might produce legal difficulties as to the construction of the act. He saw no reason why the bill should not be divided, and would move an instruction to the committee for that purpose. He could not agree with the noble secretary, that the law as it stood was not sufficient to meet the evil. He had, on the contrary, always thought the existing law powerful enough, if properly applied, to answer the purpose: or, at least, that nothing more was necessary than to strengthen it. He and the noble secretary differed widely in their views, both of the danger and the remedy. He conceived, that all they were doing was wrong; and that the measures they were adopting were likely to create the danger against which they were intended to guard; to engender a spirit of disaffection whore it did not be-
1204Earl Grosvenor
 hoped, that no advantage would be taken of their not having discussed the principle of the bill now. He concurred in that clause which, generally speaking, went to give greater weight to public meetings, and likewise in that which went to prevent improper meetings. Of all the rest of the bill he disapproved; and it ought to be observed, that they had now, in about three weeks, made more alterations in the law, with reference to the present difficulties, than Mr. Pitt's administration had done in six months, in a period of greater alarm. The ministers had swept together every thing that had been passed in moments of difficulty, and re-enacted them in a heap, making some of the provisions permanent. He concurred with his noble friend, that what was temporary ought to be separated from what was permanent. These provisions were distinct in their nature, and ought to be includedin separate bills.Lord Holland
 could not concur in that motion. If any such legal difficulties as the noble earl had alluded to should arise, from that which was temporary being included in the same bill with that which was permanent, then certainly it would be proper to divide the bill; but he could not conceive how any such difficulties could arise, the temporary and the permanent provisions being both distinctly stated.The Earl of Liverpool
 thought that the bill ought to be divided, as it was a confused mode of legislating to unite temporary and permanent provisions in the same bill; and he was happy that the motion was made, as it would at least appear on the Journals, that there was one peer who had objected to that course.Lord Holland
 stated, that after the subject had been discussed in that House, a letter had been addressed to the governors of the several West India islands, with instructions to make the proper communications to the assemblies, and persuade them to adopt such measures as were best calculated to accomplish the object in view. He was now able to state to their lordships, that intelligence had been received, that in Jamaica a bill for the registration of slaves had been passed; and also another bill for giving greater effect to the object of the abolition of the slave traffic; that in Barbadoes an act had been passed for the registration of slaves; and that in St. Vincent's, and other islands, the subject had been under discussion; and it was expected, that all the other legislatures would follow the example of Jamaica. The acts which had been passed would, as soon as possible, be laid on their lordships table. With respect to the colonial legislatures, he must say, that they had evinced every disposition to attend to the wishes of the legislature and public of Great Britain, and to promote the object in view.Earl Bathurst
 said, that it was his intention, before Easter, to lay the acts on the table.Earl Bathurst
 said, that the information now communicated by his noble friend, afforded him the most lively satisfaction; and he was more particularly gratified by the assurance, that the colonial legislatures had shown a sincere desire to contribute to the accomplishment of the great object in view. He hoped the bills would, without delay, be laid on the table, that they might see how far they were calculated to answer the purpose; and, if there were no objection, he would now submit a motion to that effect.Lord Grenville
1205 rose to call the attention of the House to a subject winch had been under the consideration of the House last session: he alluded to the subject of the Abolition of the Slave trade and the Registry of Slaves. He had then stated the reasons which induced him to refrain from pressing any specific measure to be adopted by parliament, with respect to the registration of
1205Lord Grenville
 recommended a new wording of some parts of the clause, in order to render it more clear, it being at present a matter of doubt whether the penalty of death might not apply to persons who formed no part of the original meeting, but who merely happened to be present at the expiration of the hour. He therefore wished words to be used, applying the penalty specifically to such persons having been present at the meeting who remained at the expiration of an hour; and to this offence, it being a direct resistance of the lawful authorities of the realm, he agreed that it was not improper to apply the punishment of death.Lord Grenville
 thought that the penalty of death was by far too heavy a punishment to be inflicted under the circumstances described in the bill. This part of the clause was, he was aware, copied from the not act; but it should be recollected, that to constitute the offence described in that act, there must be, on the part of the persons assembled, some riotous acts. Under the present bill, there was no such qualification, as, for any thing that appeared on the face of it, persons merely remaining on the ground where the meeting was held, to the number of twelve or more, perhaps conversing about it, or ignorant of the law, might be subjected to the punishment of death. Considering this as by far too heavy a penalty for such an offence, he should move to substitute a lesser punishment.Lord Holland
1212 observed, that as the words at present stood, if the clerk of the peace, having received a notice of an intended meeting, signed by seven householders, neglected to communicate it to three magistrates, such meeting might be deemed an unlawful meeting under this bill, although the parties calling it had complied in every respect with the enactments of this clause, and the persons remaining as described might be subjected to the punishment of death. He objected also to giving power to one magistrate (whose mind might possibly be warped by passion or prejudice) to place persons assembled at a public meeting in a situation which might subject them to the punishment of death; and this too, perhaps
1212Lord St. John
 maintained, that the clause never could be construed to mean that a meeting legally assembled, in consequence of a notice given by seven householders to the clerk of the peace, could be rendered illegal by the mere circumstance of the clerk of the peace not having communicated the notice to three magistrates. The clerk of the peace might be indictable for a neglect of his duty; but his not performing that duty could not render the meeting, of which due notice had been given to him, illegal. With regard to the punishment of death, he could only say, it was matter of notoriety that meetings had been lately held greatly endangering the public tranquillity, and those noble lords who thought that such meetings ought to be effectually put down, would, of course, vote for the punishment of death, whilst those who considered that such meetings only constituted a minor offence, would vote for a lesser punishment.The Lord Chancellor
 still contended, that under the words of the clause, as it stood, the construction might be as he had stated it.Lord St. John
 certainly did not believe that any court of justice would sentence an individual to death, on account of the omission on the part of another person to do a certain act; but he contended, that the clause ought to be made more clear.The Earl of Rosslyn
 thought the clause quite clear as it stood, the persons attending the meetings not being responsible for any omission of duty on the part of the clerk of the peace, but he had no objection to any alteration that would make it more clear.Lord Ellenborough
1213 said, there was no doubt that the words "in such case" used in the clause, would apply both to the notice given to the clerk of the peace, and the communication to be made of that notice by the clerk of the peace to
1213The Earl of Lauderdale
 had no doubt that a meeting legally summoned by a notice could not given to the clerk of the peace be rendered unlawful by the clerk of the peace neglecting to communicate that notice to three magistrates. He, however, would not object to an amendment that might render the clause more clear.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that if the act, in respect of which the punishment of death was imposed, had been the mere circumstance of going to an unlawful meeting, as his noble friend seemed to imagine, he admitted, that the punishment would be too severe; but it was not the going to the meeting, but the refusing to disperse, when commanded, that rendered the persons so disobeying liable to the punishment of death.Lord Grenville
 was perfectly aware that the act by which the penalty was incurred, was the sot dispersing, when commanded; but he repeated, that the punishment was infinitely too severe for the mere act of peaceably remaining. In the case of the not act, the penalty was incurred, not by the mere act of remaining, but by that of remaining riotously and tumultuously. He thought the punishment of death too severe for any of the offences described in these clauses; but here it was glaringly disproportionate to the crime. It was not analogous to the punishments imposed in other cases. A smuggler unarmed might, without incurring this penalty, do acts which, if done by an armed smuggler would render him liable to this punishment.Lord Holland
 said, there was a distinction certainly between an unlawful assembly and a riotous or routous assembly; but, under the present circumstances, the punishment of death ought to be here retained.The Lord Chancellor
1214 rose on the clause relative to the holding of any meeting, the notice for which should purport that any matter or thing by law established may be altered otherwise than by the authority of King, Lords, and Commons, in parliament assembled; or tend to incite or stir up the people to hatred or contempt of his majes-
1214Lord Erskine
1215 objected to the clause on the ground of its inconsistency. It was a
1215Lord Holland
 could not but admit that two very distinct things were mixed up in this clause; but he by no means thought the giving of a notice of the description in question so very improbable a case as his noble friends had supposed. If he was not deceived, he had in his time seen a convention sitting in this country under a notice which had for its object to alter things established by law, otherwise than by the consent of King, Lords, and Commons. He therefore, thought that means should be adopted to counteract notices of the kind referred to in the clause. At the same time he thought it right, that an assembly, which might be so called together, should not be misled as to their situation. With a view to the precautionary purposes of the bill before their lordships, it was a fair question whether it might not be proper to legalize notices, which would otherwise be illegal: but, then, it would be proper to provide, that the persons giving such notice should still be liable to be proceeded against by due course of law. On the other hand, the situation of persons who might be misled under the sanction which the law gave, ought not to be overlooked; and it were to be wished that some mode should be devised of cautioning people against attending such illegal assemblies. He had considered this subject, but had not discovered any mode of attaining the object he had stated which was satisfactory to his own mind.Lord Grenville
1216 was of opinion that the authority given to a single justice of the peace was not of the nature his noble and learned friend had described it to be. It did not constitute the magistrate a judge of libel, nor invest him with a power of punishment. It only gave him the power of dispersing the meeting: whether what had been spoken or published was libellous, was a ques-
1216Lord Ellenborough
 objected to the clause. It implied, on the face of it, that the existing laws were not executed; and if the bill passed in its present form, it would amount to a declaration, that the legislature suspected that the magistrates of the country did not do their duty.The Earl of Lauderdale
1217 did not conceive the clause to be liable to the objections which had been urged against it. If, however, any words could be suggested to make it clearer, or to remove the scruples of noble lords, either by a provision for making the persons who issued the notice liable to be prosecuted by a due course at law, which they certainly were as the clause now stood; or for preventing persons from being so far misled, as to assemble under the notice, or for both of those objects, such alteration might be made by way of rider, on the third reading of the bill. With respect to the possibility of a notice of the nature referred to in the clause, he agreed that it was not so very improbable an occurrence as some noble lords had supposed. Indeed, he had seen a notice for a meeting, in the neighbourhood of the metropolis, previous to the 2d of December, which was of a highly blameable nature. It was true, as his noble and learned friend had said, that the notice might be made the subject of prosecution on its being issued, and the persons signing it brought to punishment: but in the mean time the meeting would be held. Before even instructions could be given to an attorney to proceed, all the mischief, which it was the object of the clause to prevent, might be completed. No more power, then, was given than was absolutely necessary at a time like the present, when wicked and artful men were seeking, by speeches and publications, to undermine the principles of the people; because they knew that, unless they first succeeded in shaking the morality and religion of the country, and banishing the best feelings which glowed in British hearts, they could not hope to overthrow the constitution. With regard to the act for the suspension of the Ha-
1217The Lord Chancellor
 did not see how the particular powers given by this clause, and defended by the learned lord, were necessary. He entirely dissented from the clause which gave one magistrate, merely upon his own discretion, authority to disperse a meeting.Lord Holland
 was of the same opinion. When a notice was altogether unexceptionable, the meeting that assembled in the terms of it ought not to be dispersed merely because a magistrate, in his zeal or ignorance, might think that it entered into discussions which to him might appear dangerous.Lord Erskine
1218l., suggested, that some alteration should be made in the clause that related to the giving of lectures. By the bill as it stood, any person giving lectures on philosophical subjects, without licence, would be liable to a penalty of 201218l.,The Earl of Lauderdale
 answered, that the penalties would not apply.Lord Sidmouth
1223 said, he thought the exceptions from the operation of this clause did not extend far enough, and that there could be no objection to include in
1223The Earl of Lauderdale
 opposed the clause, contending that it was not to be presumed that magistrates would from any private motives prevent the delivery of lectures, such as had been alluded to by the noble lord, and it would appear invidious to exempt physic or medicine in particular.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that the magistrates connected with the university of Oxford, uniformly prevented private lectures, and the same might be expected at Edinburgh.The Earl of Lauderdale
 stated, that the power to grant these licences extended to the sheriff and justices of the peace, as well as to the magistrates of Edinburgh, There was no ground, therefore, for the noble earl's alarm.Lord Melville
1224 observed, that it was too extensive in its wording. There were many clubs or societies in this metropolis, in which the members were perhaps called upon to sign some declaration merely relating to the pay meat of a subscription, or
1224Lord Holland
 said, that the next clause enacted, that these tests or declarations might be approved of by two justices of the peace, but there was no intention whatever of subjecting to restrictions societies which were merely convivial, and had no political object in view.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that the members of these societies might naturally feel repugnant to submit mere nonsense to the inspection of justices of the peace, and he saw no reason why they should be subjected to the inconvenience. Freemasons were excepted, and why should not other societies, equally harmless in their object or at least what objection was there to introduce words that should obviate any inconvenience to clubs or societies merely convivial, and having no political object whatever in assembling?Lord Holland
 said, as his learned friend seemed to be so well acquainted with these societies, he would perhaps employ a short time to-morrow morning in framing some amendment to meet the object in view.The Lord Chancellor
 thought the clause highly objectionable, as tending to embarrass the right of holding public meetings, for the purpose of petitioning the throne or either House of Parliament, upon subjects of public interest.Lord St. John
 contended, that there was no reason why the inhabitants of Westminster should not have the exercise of a privilege, which was possessed by the inhabitants of every other part of London. He should have preferred that a clause of so much importance had been introduced into the bill at first, rather than now, towards the very close of any discussion upon it.The Earl of Rosslyn
 said, that the clause had originated in the suggestion of a noble earl on the other side of the House, upon a former evening. With respect to its principle, he did not think there could be any difference of opinion. Their lordships must be perfectly sensible of the indecorum of permitting meetings to be held within the purlieus of parliament, which from their nature, often led to scenes that never should be tolerated. It was certainly most desirable that the members of the two Houses should not be exposed to those gross outrages which had sometimes occurred, when coming down to parliament in the exercise of their public duty. With regard to the proposed distance of a mile, he did not apprehend that would throw any serious impediment in the way of lawfully assembling to petition either the throne or the legislature. A line must be drawn somewhere, and he was informed by a noble friend who was commonly accurate upon such matters, that a mile and a half would not extend further than the top of St. James's street. A mile therefore, would leave sufficient opportunities for the inhabitants of Westminster to meet whenever they might deem it necessary.The Earl of Liverpool
1226 said, he should like to know why the inhabitants of Westminster were to be alone excluded from a privilege which would be found to belong to the inhabitants of other parts of the
1226The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, there was no intention whatever of subjecting to inconvenience mere convivial societies, which might be productive of pleasure or advantage to individuals. But if any clubs or societies had any test or declaration, attended with any solemnity, it was but fair that they should be subjected to the superintendence in that respect of justices of the peace.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, it would be for their lordships to determine whether they would extend the same protection to the courts of law as to the Houses of Parliament. He merely wished to observe, that a case had occurred, during the time in which he had sat as chief justice of the court of King's-bench, where a tumultuous and disorderly meeting assembled in Westminister-hall, and he had found it necessary to suspend the proceedings of the court. Not that he himself felt any alarm, but he did not deem it right to sit there and administer the law of the land under such circumstances, and he waited till the sheriffs were sent for, and the mob was cleared out. He was aware that was a case of great rarity; but it had occurred, and having occurred, there was no reason why it might not happen again.Lord Ellenborough
 observed, that the noble and learned lord had proved there was no necessity rather than that there was a necessity for the present clause. He had mentioned an instance, where a meeting was held in Westminster-hall during the sittings of the court of King's bench, and he had shown, that by sending for the sheriffs, a power already existed to remove any such inconvenience.Lord Erskine
 observed, that there were the quizzes, the bucks, the odd fellows, and several other societies, whose object was equally harmless with that of the freemasons.Lord Erskine
 said, that this part of the-bill was intended to be permanent, and therefore they should be more cautious as to what they enacted. Their object ought, to be to impose as few restrictions as possible upon the people, because by imposing unnecessary restraints they might produce discontent, and excite a spirit of hostility in place of that love which persons bore to a country having the sacred character of freedom. There were other societies besides freemasons which might have, perhaps, tests equally solemn, but which were equally harmless.Lord Erskine
 perfectly concurred in the propriety of prohibiting public meetings from being held near the Houses of Parliament during the sitting of parliament; but he did not see the same necessity with regard to the courts of law. He was not aware that any inconvenience could be sustained by them, in consequence of a meeting held in Palace-yard, while they were sitting; and it should be remembered, that the operation of the clause, by comprehending both cases, would go to prevent meetings during almost the whole of the year.Lord Erskine
 said, the object of the clause was, not to prevent, in any manner, the people of Westminster from enjoying the fair and just exercise of their right to assemble, for purposes authorized by the constitution, but to put a stop to that practice, which, if he did not agree with the noble earl was an indecorum, he at least considered as an inconvenience, of holding meetings within the vicinity of parliament, which often led to conduct as affecting the members of both Houses, which ought to be repressed. With that view, and as they merely wished to protect the immediate avenues from interruption, perhaps if they were to substitute half a mile, for a mile, the end would be answered, as he understood Charing-cross was within that distance, and thus Whitehall and Parliament street, down to Westminster-hall, would be preserved from any obstruction. There would be time, before they were called upon finally to agree to the present clause to ascertain that point. He would also suggest a slight verbal alteration in the clause, making it applicable to wherever parliament or the courts of justice might sit, instead of Westminster-hall generally, as it was at the discretion of the Crown to call parliament together wherever it might judge proper, and also to order, at its own pleasure, the place for holding the courts of law.Lord Grenville
 said, that the powers of the magistrates, to whom the noble earl alluded, as being connected with the university of Oxford, were confided to them for the exclusive purpose of protecting the interests of the university; but it was otherwise with the magistrates of Edinburgh, whose duty it was to attend to the interests of the public, as well as those of the university.Lord Grenville
12421241124012391238 expressed his satisfaction to hear from his noble friend, that he did not now entertain opinions on certain points in which they differed, to the same extent in which he formerly held them. He (the lord chancellor) had throughout his political life held opinions directly opposed to that reform, and in so doing, had by some been considered to be in error. He felt much satisfaction, therefore, at finding that his noble and learned friend, for whose talents and abilities he had the highest respect, was approximating to him. He was satisfied of this, that if his noble and learned friend did not approximate to him, that he (the lord chancellor) should not be induced to give up those opinions against parliamentary reform which he firmly and conscientiously believed to be right. He should be happy if he and his noble friend could approximate a little more; but with respect to this bill, unless his noble friend approximated to him, it was not likely that he should approximate to his noble and learned friend. On the preceding night, in the committee on this bill, a noble lord had moved an amendment with respect to lectures on the physical sciences. He supposed it was to this they were indebted for the learned dissertation they had heard upon fire, water, and air. His noble and learned friend had made some alarming observations on the effects of those elements, and spoke of controlling them as if
12421241124012391238The Lord Chancellor
12451244***1243 readily admitted that the learned lord had placed the inducement for passing this bill upon the only true ground—the necessity of the measure; and the only question was, whether or not that necessity was made out? Undoubtedly, to preserve the constitution was the first duty of parliament; to see that the laws were duly executed, the second. If any measure like this bill was necessary, it must be adopted, with however much regret they might acknowledge it to be called for; but what necessity enjoined, necessity also limitted; and if necessity were admitted, it was still to be asked, whether this was the measure required. The reports on their lordships' table stated, that some law was necessary; but taking that for granted, it by no means followed, that any law which might be proposed by his majesty's ministers must of course be necessary. Unfortunate as the present situation of the country might be, it was not
12451244***1243Lord St. John
124812471246 could not, after what had fallen from the noble and learned lord who commenced the debate, and the noble lord who spoke last, give a silent vote on this question. To express the ground on which he should vote for the third reading of the bill, he had to declare, that he gave his consent to the measure, not for the purpose of punishing those who had been guilty, but with the view of protecting the lives and property of his Majesty's subjects, and for the preservation of those liberties, which would be best secured by the denial, for a time, of their enjoyment. The noble lords had assumed, that there was not sufficient danger to call for precautions; but that was a question which parliament, he conceived, had already decided in the affirmative, and was not now to be argued. The practice of former periods of our history,
124812471246The Earl of Westmoreland
1251ratio suasoriaratio justifica1250ad inter necionem1249 said, he had intended to enter at some length into the measure before their lordships, but he should abstain now from doing so, as well because he felt himself at present unequal to the task, as because he feared that, before the conclusion of the session, he should have other opportunities of discussing the present bill, or the system of measures with which it was connected. It had been truly said, that the bills which had been brought before parliament of late should not be viewed singly; they were indeed but too closely connected. He feared, therefore, that their attention would again be called to this system of measures before the end of the session, by a proposal to extend the period of the suspension of the Habeas Corpus. Such was the rumour, and it proceeded from a person holding a high situation in his majesty's councils. If such a proposal were made, which he should much lament, at whatever distance he might be from the capital, he should feel it his duty to attend in his place to oppose the progress of the measure, unless a very great alteration took place on those points which had been considered a sufficient reason for the present suspension. There were, he remarked, some differences of opinion among the supporters of the
1251ratio suasoriaratio justifica1250ad inter necionem1249Earl Grosvenor
1253 wished to state in a few words the reasons which induced him to give his strenuous support to the present measure. He denied the correctness of the assertion of a noble viscount who had attributed the distresses of the country to the conduct of the administration. He contended that those calamities were owing to the transition from war to peace —to the speculations which had been carried on in a manner so opposite to the old English principles of trade, and which had involved those engaged in them in bankruptcy—to the exportation of sums of money which had been necessarily sent abroad to pay our troops—and, above all, to the dispensation of Providence, which had destroyed the fruits of the earth. If parliament had been called together at an earlier period, the country would have been deprived of the local assistance which the higher ranks had so actively afforded. When parliament had assembled not a moment was lost in laying before it grounds for the present measures. The example of sir Robert Walpole in 1722 had been referred to, and the ministers had been called on to imitate his example in restoring public credit. But how did he effect that object, except by measures such as were now proposed? He was convinced that the rise of the stocks at the present moment was also to be attributed to the display of well-timed energy on the part of the government which had given confidence to all good men. A respectable merchant, who had not always supported the administration, having been asked how he liked the suspension of the Habeas Corpus said, "I had rather be under the power of his majesty's government for three months than that my warehouses should be three hours in the power of a mob." He was persuaded the measures which had been passed, would be felt as benefits by all honest subjects, and that the threats of the factious and the malignant would be now disregarded, when it was seen there was a government to protect the loyal from outrage and insult. He abstained from addressing the House on most occasions, because his own opinions were more ably expressed and supported by others; but he could not sit silently and hear the distemper of the public mind attributed to a wrong cause. He expected much from the gradual demand for manufactures and the increasing prosperity of agriculture; and he hoped there would be no necessity for the renewal of the suspension of the Ha-
1253The Duke of Athol
12691268 objected to the substance, form, and time, of the clause. When these measures of coercion had been first adopted, he had himself been willing to consider what step might not be permanently disadvantageous to the people, and yet might meet the wishes even of those who thought all public meetings dangerous. He then thought that meetings near the House of Parliament might with propriety be prevented; not because they were dangerous, but because they sometimes presented an obstruction to the performance of parliamentary duties; and, therefore, while parliament was sitting, he thought there was no great objection to such a clause. But the present clause particularly marked out the inhabitants of Westminster, though there was
12691268Lord Holland
 observed, that the question before their lordships now was, simply, whether the clause, which seemed so objectionable to some noble lords, should stand part of the bill! Both sides of the House appeared to him agreed, although perhaps on different grounds, that it should not. He then put the question, when it appeared the non-contents had it, and the clause was expunged. The clause of the noble viscount, amending the former, and excluding from the prohibition the before-mentioned parts of Covent-garden and the borough of South-wark, was then put.The Lord Chancellor
 considered this clause an excessively severe and unexpected attack upon the privileges of the citizens of Westminster, whose interests were the more entitled to the consideration and protection of the House, inasmuch as they were not themselves present by petition or counsel, to defend this sudden invasion of their rights. He complained that the House had been taken by surprise. Last night they had been told that this was only a temporary measure; and now, without any notice, at the last stage of the bill, it was proposed to render it permanent. This he thought was dealing hardly by the people of Westminster.The Earl of Rosslyn
 was surprised that so much had been said in objection to the proposed clause, as it could not fairly be said to create any inconvenience, much Jess disability, to the citizens of Westminster, but had been introduced solely with a view to ensure that respect and facility of approach to the Houses, which on some late occasions it had been their misfortune to experience, had been violated and interrupted. The noble lord had complained of surprise; but the real question was, whether there was any objection to the measure: he could see none. The inhabitants of Westminster were not precluded from holding their legal meetings, and Covent-garden had always been the legal recognised place for those meetings. Some limit must be fixed on, and be knew none less objectionable than that which had been proposed.The Earl of Liverpool
 thought if the provision was intended to be permanent, they ought to proceed more cautiously. He was afraid, too, that if they adopted this clause, they might in reality prevent the people of Westminster from holding any meeting whatever. He understood that the area of Covent-garden was private property. The proprietor of the ground might, therefore, prevent any meeting from being held there for public purposes; or, at all events, obstruct the avenues.The Earl of Lauderdale
 stated, that the right of holding a market in Covent-garden was private, but that the streets could not be closed to the public.The Lord Chancellor
12611260125912581257 considered the question now before their lordships to be one perhaps of the most important nature that could possibly engage their attention. He was prepared to contend against his noble friends who had spoken before him in this debate, in hostility to the bill, that this measure was necessary in the present circumstances of the country; and that its necessity pleaded its justification. His noble friends had first denied the danger, and then they argued that even upon the admission of the danger, the remedy was not appropriate. He differed with them in both their positions. He was convinced of the danger, and he believed the remedy was calculated to meet the emergency. He did not doubt the existence of the danger from the beginning; but even had he undervalued its evidence at the commencement of the session, sufficient proofs of it had since come to light. His alarm was not reduced by seeing those who usually advocated popular opinions blind to its extent, or even ready to deny its existence. The disavowal of danger was made by some, because they were anxious to under-rate what could not fairly be acknowledged without furnishing grounds for those measures to which they objected. He had heard, that there was no danger to the constitution from the designs of those whose operations this bill was intended to restrain; and that, because they were not headed by powerful individuals, therefore, their machinations were harmless. This argument had no influence on his mind, because we could find parallels in history of revolutions affected by instruments at first as insignificant and contemptible in appearance as the persons alluded to. The French revolution was no distant event of this kind. It had passed in our own time—it had occurred at our own door—it did not now agitate the world, but its memory was still fresh. The edifice was reduced to ruin, but the vestiges that remained showed its original extent. We remembered its fall, and we should never forget the crimes and the atrocities on which it was built, or the blood with which it was cemented. On its broken and disjointed fragments we might read an awful lesson of prudence
12611260125912581257The Marquis of Buckingham
12631262 was not aware of any comparison which could be made between France and this country, especially when it was considered that France was under a despotic government. The noble marquess, who had just sat down, had said, that the means employed to bring about the French revolution, and those now employed by the discontented in this country, were of the same kind. He could not assent to the proposition. The revolutionary party in France was assisted by
12631262The Earl of Darnley
1266, in explanation, observed, that his change of opinion with regard to the necessity of the measures adopted at a former period, and those at present proposed, did not rest solely upon the circumstance of this country having been then at war, but upon this ground also, that there were at that period persons in this country actually plotting with the government of France, for the subversion of the constitution, while the country
1266Earl Grosvenor
1267 felt it impossible to give a silent vote upon this important question. He was aware, that from the opinion which any noble lord pronounced on this occasion, he would be conceived to stand pledged for his constitutional, doctrines; and although he differed totally from those noble lords who occupied the ministerial benches, he felt conscious that he was as strongly attached to the true principles of that constitution as any individual among them. Upon the allusion which had been made to so many topics, which were, in his judgment, quite foreign to the question before the House, he did not propose to dwell; but he could not forbear from observing, that it was an egregious error to maintain, that no persons of consequence or consideration were concerned in originating or promoting the French Revolution. For it was notorious that although few men of rank were at first engaged in it, yet many men of talents, and vast numbers of literary characters, were active promoters of it. It was supported likewise by one of the royal family. When that person of great rank joined it, both he and many of his partisans were unaware of the extent to which it would be carried, or of the dangers which it threatened. Therefore, on that point, he must consider this individual, although he had no acquaintance whatever with him, as perfectly innocent. But there were many circumstances peculiar to France at the time (among which was the bankrupt condition of her finances), none of which were, in any degree, applicable to this country; for how could any parallel be drawn between the circumstances of an arbitrary and a free government? How could it, besides, be contended, that the counter revolution which so fortunately put an end to the great evil to which he had alluded, was attributable to the mere force of arms? No, the counter revolution was the result of the spirit of the people, which the oppressive operation of that revolution had universally roused, and which enabled sovereigns to effect its overthrow. That baneful revolution, then, being now no more, there was no farther danger to be apprehended from such a precedent, and therefore there was the less necessity for any measure of this nature. The example of that revolution warranted quite a different conclusion from that upon which
1267The Duke of Sussex
125612551254 said, that he had felt some anxiety not to lose this opportunity of proclaiming his opposition to the bill under consideration. He agreed with the noble and learned lord on the woolsack, that the question to be discussed was, whether the necessity of the times justified the laws which had been proposed? and his objections to it were founded in a sincere belief that the necessity of the case did hot warrant so violent a proceeding. He entertained the utmost respect and esteem for several members of the select committee; but he considered their report as an exaggerated representation of the actual danger, and of the prevailing disaffection. He knew of no one overt act, except the riots on the 2d of December, in the metropolis; and what were the circumstances attending them? A few mischievous deluded men appeared ready to execute crimes, and to commit murder and conflagration, hoping to find the majority of the population in a similar disposition; and in this attempt they had been disappointed. Equally futile had the attack on his Royal Highness been, though at the same time, no man could deny the heinous and aggravated nature of such an assault. But why, he would ask, were the people of England to be calumniated in consequence of the political or mischievous frenzes of a few? The attack on the Prince Regent, however, was not adduced as any ground for the present measure. For the correction of the offence of libel, the laws were admitted to be sufficient. It was a well-known fact, that the absurdity of those who harangued at public meetings, had sunk the speakers into their justly deserved obscurity; and it was equally well known that the people of England, as a people, were not involved in their seditious proceedings. The Union Clubs, with their branches and affiliations, sounded at first very mysteriously, but seemed to him to be of little more import-
125612551254Lord Auckland
12651264 observed, that necessity alone could justify the bill before the House, and that necessity being proved, its policy was sufficiently established, and he felt himself called upon to give it his support. As to the opinion of the country, with respect to the expediency of this and the other measures which had recently been adopted, their lordships had received various and contradictory statements; but from the result of his inquiry, he was led to conclude, that the judgment of the more intelligent and considerate part of the people, was decidedly in favour of the policy which dictated those measures. The noble lords on the opposite side of the House, were however of opinion, that the necessity alleged and known to exist, was not sufficient to warrant a bill of this nature. According to the judgment of some, the course of proceeding proposed by his majesty's ministers, would not be warrantable, unless
12651264The Earl of Aberdeen
, adverting, to the clause introduced yesterday for the prevention of meetings within a mile of the door of Westminster-hall, stated, that the restriction was not intended to create a difficulty to the inhabitants of Westminster. It had been considered since yesterday, that Covent-garden, the usual place for holding elections for Westminster, was within the precincts of that city, and that the borough of Southwark did not form any of the usual avenues to parliament. He therefore proposed to withdraw the clause, that no persons, above the number of fifty, should meet within a mile of the door of Westminster-hall, and to substitute, as an amendment, the words, "saving and excepting in St. Paul's, Covent-garden, and the borough of Southwark." The clause, so amended, could not produce any inconvenience to the inhabitants of Westminster or the borough; and as it would at all times secure a free passage to the House, he should propose that it might be permanent. This amendment, he hoped, would obviate any objection on the part of the electors of Westminster, as Covent-garden was the place of election, and convenient for their assembling for the purpose of considering of any petition, while parliament would be protected from inconvenience.Viscount Sidmouth
1237Water1236***1235123412331232123112301229ex parteex parte1228§ said, that his objections to the principle of the bill in almost all its parts, lay within a very narrow compass, and he desired to preface them by admitting the whole of what had been so ably and eloquently said the other night by his noble and learned friend upon the woolsack, except in its application to support the measure now under consideration. He agreed with him that there might be times and seasons in which it would not only be wise and expedient, but indispensably necessary to suspend the strongest provisions of the law for the protection of public liberty, and he would go farther and say, that the more excellent the constitution to be protected (and none could be more excellent than our own) the greater sacrifices ought to be made, and willingly submitted to by the people, to se-
1237Water1236***1235123412331232123112301229ex parteex parte1228§Lord Erskine
 then observed, that he understood the noble viscount had on a former evening stated his readiness to produce the opinion of the law officers referred to in the Circular, but objected to the production of the case laid before them. As he was desirous to obtain upon this subject all he could get, he should now move for the opinion. He still thought it would be of great importance to have the case that was referred to the law officers, in order that it might be seen what the nature of the doubt was that had arisen, or what circumstances had induced the noble secretary of state to ask the opinion of the law officers. He should, however, reserve himself until the production of the Opinion with regard to any future motions as to whether he might consider it necessary to move for the case, or whether he should decide upon at once giving notice, so as to bring the whole question into discussion. The noble earl concluded by moving for the Opinion of the law officers, referred to in lord Sidmouth's Circular Letter to the lord lieutenants, which were ordered.Earl Grey
2 said, it would be in the recollection of their lordships, that when the Seditious Meetings bill was under discussion, there was no objection which had been so much insisted upon by those who opposed the bill as the discretionary powers given to the magistrates; but he believed that even those who had urged that objection most strongly, had never anticipated a case so extraordinary as that of the Academical Society, to which society a licence had, been refused by the magistrates of the city. This society had existed for 20 or 30 years, and consisted of most respectable persons, members of the universities and inns of court; and they intended, as he was informed, to present petitions to both Houses of Parliament, which would bring the subject before the House in a more regular and formal manner. He did not think it proper, therefore, at present to go more at large into the case of that particular society; but he could not suffer a day to pass without asking, for the sake of the public, whether this was the construction really put upon the act by the framers of it, or by the legislature? He conceived it impossible that such could have been their meaning. Application was made to the magistrates, in behalf of this society, for a licence, and they were informed that it was the practice of that society to discuss literary, historical, and political subjects. The magistrates insisted, that no licence ought to be
2The Earl of Darnley
3 said, he had no objection to state that, according to his belief, neither the framers of the act, nor those who supported it, ever intended that it should put an end to all political discussion whatever. He would be ashamed to give any answer to the nobles earl's insinuation,
3Lord Sidmouth
 thought that there was no opinion respecting the cases referred to of Thomas Spence and Alexander Hogg to be found amongst the papers of the office; but that instead of being an opinion given, it was an opinion acted upon.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, the cases referred to of Spence and Hogg must have occurred when he had ceased to be attorney-general, as he had no recollection of it. He thought, however, that the opinion referred to was not one given, but one acted upon, and that Spence and Hogg were held to bail either by justices of the peace or judges of the King's-bench, he could not recollect which. He would, however, inquire and obtain the requisite information, if the noble lord would postpone his motion.The Lord Chancellor
 agreed to postpone his motion, in consequence of what had been so candidly stated by the noble and learned lord. He could not discover what authority there was previous to the Circular, for persons being held to bail in the cases alluded to, by justices of peace, and it was of the greatest importance to ascertain it.Earl Grey
 adverted to the opinions of the law officers of the Crown, referred to in lord Sidmouth's Circular, and observed, that what was there stated rendered it still more necessary that the case referred to them should be laid before the House. It related to a question of the greatest importance, involving, as he conceived, a departure from the practice of the constitution, and a violation of the law of the land. He should, therefore, move on Tuesday for the case referred to the law officers, and should then make observations upon the whole question. In the Opinion of the law officers he observed a reference made to an opinion of a learned predecessor of theirs, respecting the case of Thomas Spence and Alexander Hogg, in 1801. He thought it of great importance that every information respecting this question should be before the House; and therefore, if there was no objection, he would now move for that opinion.Earl Grey
94 though he agreed with his noble friend, as to its not being obvious what relief the House could give, still thought the question of so much importance that an act ought to be passed to amend the seditious meetings act, in or-
94The Earl of Darnley,
 presented a Petition from the gentlemen composing the Academical Society in Chancery-lane, complaining of the inconvenience they had sustained by having recently been refused a licence under the Seditious Meetings act, at the sessions in the Old Bailey. He understood these gentlemen were highly respectable, though he had no personal knowledge of them. He proposed that the petition should be read, and he should then move that it do lie on the table. In confining himself to this motion he was actuated by two reasons; first, that he was not at present aware in what way the House could redress the grievance complained of; and, secondly, because he did not wish to take the subject out of the hands of any noble lord who might already have taken it up. The petitioners had done him the honour to place their petition in his hands, and it being worded in a most respectful and proper manner, he felt it his duty to present it.Earl Spencer
 stated the result of his inquiries respecting the cases of Spence and Hogg, mentioned in the opinion of the law officers referred to in Lord Sidmouth's Circular Letter. With respect to the case of Spence, it appeared, that on the 13th of April, 1801, an information upon oath was sworn before Mr. Ford, then at Bow-street, by a person of the name of Searle, that he had printed for Thomas Spence a work intituled "The Restorer of Society to its Natural State," and for that work Mr. Ford held Spence to bail, to appear in the court of King's-bench on the first day of the ensuing term. On the fir.-t day of the term, the then attorney-general filed an information against Spence, who was called on his recognizance, and appeared. He was subsequently tried and convicted. With regard to the case of Hogg, it appeared that an information was sworn before the then lord mayor, by a person who had purchased at Hogg's shop the trials for adultery. The lord mayor held Alexander Hogg to bail, to appear in the court of King's-bench on the first day of the ensuing term, and the recognizance was drawn up by the then attorney-general. On the first day of the ensuing term, the late Mr. Perceval, having in the mean time become attorney-general, that gentleman filed an information against Hogg, who was called upon his recognizance, and appeared. Subsequently, upon Hogg's delivering up all the books charged against, the prosecution was dropped. There was no opinion given with respect to these cases in any other way than by the proceedings he had stated.The Lord Chancellor
107 expressed his acknowledgments for the candid statement of the noble and learned lord, but observed, that
107Earl Grey
271270269268267 said, that to the subject of the Petitions, which it was then his duty to present to that House, it had been his fixed determination to have called the attention of their lordships at a much earlier period of the session, and that he had expressed such to be his intention when he last addressed himself to the House on behalf of his Catholic countrymen. His feeling was then, and should ever continue to be, that, on a question of such extent and magnitude, so vitally interesting to an important class of his majesty's subjects, it needed not the continual solicitations of the individuals more immediately concerned to stimulate parliament to the performance of its duty; and that, if such remembrances were supposed to be necessary, they had already on the tables of both Houses, the petitions of the Catholics of Ireland, stating their grievances under the disabling statutes, and praying for redress. He did not wonder under such a state of the question, at the surprise which had been expressed by a noble friend of his (the earl of Darnley) on a recent occasion, that he had not himself redeemed the pledge which he thus appeared to have given of an early discussion.—The circumstances, however, by which he had been restrained, were such as, he was persuaded, would fully exculpate him, not only in the opinion of his noble friend, but in that of the House. That part of the Roman Catholic body, with which he had been so long acting, had been engaged, from the beginning of the year, in the laudable endeavour of effecting a general conciliation amongst themselves, with the view of approaching parliament once more, by one and the same general petition, speaking the wants and the wishes of all the Catholics of Ireland. Being aware that such an attempt had been made, and trusting that it might have been attended with success, would it not have been the part of a
271270269268267The Earl of Donoughmore
 did not rise to anticipate the discussion which must shortly take place on the subject, but he did expect, from what had already passed, that it would have been introduced inconsequence of a recommendation from the executive government. When it did come forward, it should have every support from him, for he did not anticipate that any reason could be given to satisfy his mind that the measure ought not to take place.The Earl of Darnley
 said, that the principle of extents in aid was attended with great disadvantage to the commerce of the country. It would be a most salutary regulation to prevent any man from being a partner in a country bank, who happened to be connected with the collection of the revenue.The Earl of Lauderdale
297 agreed as to the
297The Earl of Liverpool
 thought that a restriction to that extent would not be sufficient. If any banker in whose hands the money was lodged by the collector of the revenue, had himself such a connexion, the disadvantage would be equal. It would, therefore, be proper to extend the operation of any measure that might be introduced so as to include such cases.The Earl of Rosslyn
 said, that the subject of the petition ought to be brought to the notice of the barons of the exchequer, who best understood it.The Lord Chancellor
299298 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for the appointment of a committee to consider the present state of the Poor Laws, and whether any and what remedy could and ought to be applied to the evils of the system. Considering the importance of the subject, it might perhaps be proper that he should state the reason why he had not brought forward the subject at an earlier period. Observing that a committee had been appointed in another place for the investigation of the same subject, he certainly had felt desirous to see what progress would be made in that investigation before he called upon their lordships to appoint a committee of this description. Great inconveniences often arose from inquiries on the same subject going on at the same time in both Houses; and sometimes undoubtedly, that course of proceeding was attended with great advantages. In his judgment, this was a case in which it was desirable to wait to see what would be done by the committee of the other House, and for that reason he had delayed calling their lordships attention to the subject sooner. It was irregular to allude to what had been done by the committee of the other House; but whatever might be thought of their conclusions, one thing was certain—that a most valuable mass of information had been collected, of which their lordships committee might avail itself: but from all that he had heard, it would be of great importance that, notwithstanding
299298The Earl of Liverpool
 did not rise to oppose the motion, and had only to regret that it was not brought forward sooner. This was an investigation which was likely to occupy a considerable length of time; and it might be doubtful whether it could be satisfactorily completed in the course of the present session. The committee ought, in his opinion, to include in the investigation, not only the state of the laws, but the practice also; and to consider whether alterations might not be beneficially introduced in both: and whether some means might not be found to afford a more effectual relief to those who were the subjects of the poor-laws, and at the same time to diminish the weight with which the system pressed upon the community. Much of the present pressure arose from the particular situation in which the commerce and agriculture of the country were at this time placed. The investigation, however, could hardly fail of being productive of great advantage.Lord St. John
300 said, that if none but those who were conversant with the details of the business ought to be heard upon it, then he ought to give no opinion; but though he was not peculiarly conversant with the details of the poor-laws, yet he knew enough of their tendency and effects to enable him to say, with some confidence, that the motion of the noble earl, if followed up with diligence, and a proper desire to provide a remedy for the evil, would be one of the greatest boons that could be conferred on the country. He did not wish to speak now of the causes of the calamities under which the country laboured; but great as
300Lord Holland
 observed, that it appeared there was a considerable difference of opinion among the Catholics themselvés, and it might be material to have this petition printed; and he moved that it be printed, together with the signatures.Lord Kenyon
 said, if he rightly understood the petition, it was to this effect—that the petitioners had heard that it was in the contemplation of the legislature to adopt the regulation called the Veto, with reference to the Catholics, of which regulation the petitioners highly disapproved.—Whence the petitioners received that information he did not know. There was no reason to believe that a bill of that kind was to come from the other House; and, as far as he knew, no such thing was in the contemplation of his noble friend who was to move the discussion of the Catholic claims on Friday. It had been observed, that there appeared to be a difference among the Catholics themselves, because some of them had come forward with this petition against the regulation of the Veto. His noble friend stated that he had received assurances from many most respectable Catholics of these two counties, that they did not concur in that petition. He was glad to hear it; and as he had for several sessions presented petitions from the general body of the Catholics, he might be permitted to say that they had always studiously refrained from dictating to or making conditions with the legislature, and had left the whole matter to the wisdom and discretion of parliament. That was the mode which he approved, and indeed the only mode in which it was proper for the petitioners to come forward; for, whatever might be his own opinion as to the Veto—his opinion having been once favourable to it, though that opinion was now entirely changed—yet the whole question ought to be left open to the House, and to the legislature. When, however, the noble lord talked of a difference of opinion among the Catholics, though they might differ in their notions as to the mode in which the measure ought to be framed, it did not therefore follow, that they were not prepared to yield a due obedience to such regulations as the legislature might think fit to enact. The legislature had certainly to consider for itself what regulations would be most beneficial to the country; and when parliament should have decided, he trusted there could be no doubt as to the obedience of the Catholics.Earl Grey
 said, there was no instance upon the Journals, of the House having ordered a petition presented to that House to be printed; and the printing of a petition would be the commencement of an entirely new practice. The House would, therefore, probably think it right to pause before it adopted that course. The petition would be laid on the table, and such noble lords as wished to examine it, would have abundant opportunity for that purpose. He agreed, that petitioners were not to prescribe to the legislature what measures or regulation to adopt; but the legislature ought to judge for itself, and adopt such measures as it might in its own discretion deem best calculated to promote the interests and happiness of the community; and when they came to the discussion of the Catholic claims, their lordships would, he trusted, bear in mind, that it was a question of the highest importance, and one which went to the very vitals of the constitution of this Protestant country.The Lord Chancellor
 said, he certainly had no intention of proposing to their lordships the adoption of the regulation of the Veto. He agreed that petitioners ought not to make conditions with the legislature, and the Catholics had not attempted to make such conditions, but had temperately, though firmly, stated their claims to be admitted to the rights and privileges of the constitution. Far from making conditions, their aim had been to offer conciliation. They had offered a substitute for the Veto; and one which they conceived well calculated to remove the apprehensions of the greatest alarmists on the subject of foreign influence. He should not have said any thing on the question at present, had it not been for the alarm bell which had been rung by the learned lord on the woolsack, with reference to the safety of the Protestant establishments. He was sorry that so high an authority as the learned lord should, in so early a stage of the proceeding, have endeavoured to create a prejudice against the claims of the Catholics, and put an extinguisher on their hopes.The Earl of Donoughmore
445 had not said that there was any difference among the Catholics as to the point of obedience; but as there was some difference of opinion among them as to the regulations which ought to be adopted, he had thought it of some consequence to have this petition with the signatures printed. As he understood,
445Lord Kenyon
exparte said, that as to the irregularity of printing a petition, he had some doubt, though he admitted that was the usual practice of the House; but, to select for printing this petition, signed by some individual Catholics, in opposition to the mode of proceeding adopted by the great body of the Catholics, he thought invidious, as it appeared like an attempt to get the question argued and decided on exparteLord Holland
à fortiori505504503 observed, that after hearing the most able speech of the noble mover, he had no difficulty in declaring, that the noble earl had argued the case with such ability as held him in some degree of check, while, at the same time, he said that he could not agree with him. In delivering his own opinion on this great question, he desired to enter his most solemn protest against being bound to hold to that opinion, except for that night. His reason for saying this was, that many of the subjects of this country had been held to bail for libels; and if they had been unjustly arrested, they might bring their actions against the individuals who had so held them to bail; and, therefore, he could not think it would be fit for any noble lord in that House to suppose, that any opinion he
à fortiori505504503The Lord Chancellor
509508distringas.venire faciascapias507506 in endeavouring to follow the noble and learned lord, was desirous of stating at once the spirit and view which influenced him in supporting the motion of his noble friend. His immediate object was to obtain farther information on the subject. Those who thought that the opinions promulgated in the noble viscount's Circular Letter were sound law, and that circumstances were such as to call on the noble viscount to communicate them to the magistrates in so unusual a mode, and to take from them the discretion which in any state of the law was be-
509508distringas.venire faciascapias507506Lord Holland,
511510 considering that the main object of the debate had been already obtained by the legal opinions which had been elicited, should think himself inexcusable were he to attempt to strengthen the arguments already adduced by the highest authorities, by any observations of his own. When he had the satisfaction of hearing it proclaimed in that House, that the measure which he had thought it his duty to adopt was conformable to the opinion of the highest legal authority in the country (the lord chancellor), and of the lord chief justice of the kingdom—when he found that it was conformable to the opinions of the greatest text-writers on the law, and also to the recorded practice of all the most eminent law servants of the Crown, both before and after they had attained the highest judicial situations—he felt it would be presumptuous in him to attempt to add any weight to this mass of dead and living authorities; but though he did not think it necessary to detain their lordships with any remarks on this point of discussion, yet there was another point on which he should think it a matter of great self-reproach, if he could not vindicate himself to their lordships. It seemed that he stood before their lordships charged with having used his best endeavours to stop the progress of blasphemy and sedition. To that charge he pleaded guilty; and while he lived he should be proud to have such a charge brought against him. In that report which was laid before the House at the beginning of the session, a report which had been attacked but not shaken, notice was taken of the unremitting activity which had been employed throughout the kingdom in circulating, to an unprecedented extent, at the lowest prices, or gratuitously, publications of the most seditious and inflammatory nature, marked with a peculiar character of irreligion and blasphemy; and tending not only to overturn the existing form of government and order of society, but to root out those principles upon which alone any government or any society can be supported. When he concurred in that statement, he knew it to be truth; but what he then knew, hp had since seen confirmed with ten times the force. He knew that efforts unparalleled had been made to carry into
511510Lord Sidmouth,
* said, he had never given any opinion as to the propriety or impropriety of the conduct of the magistrates towards Mr. Wright, but had merely related what he had heard—namely, that he had impugned a fundamental doctrine of Christianity.*The Bishop of Chester
 begged leave to detain the House with a few observations. First, as to what had fallen from the rev. prelate, he had never stated the case otherwise than as it was now stated by him. He had merely drawn an argument from it as to the difficulty which must occur in deciding what is and what is not libel; and had inferred, from the representation made by the rev. prelate, that prejudice, passion, habit, interest, might occasionally influence the decision of the magistrates, when it appeared that a man had been held to bail for opinions not only common to Unitarian Christians, but even to distinguished prelates, as the rev. prelate well knew. He trusted that he should be acquitted of any even unintentional misrepresentation. He now resumed theEarl Grey
* rose and spoke in substance as follows:*Earl Grey
499498† 2 Hawkins' Pleas of the Crown, 84.***497 said, he had listened with the utmost attention to the very able and elaborate speech of the noble earl—a speech which evidently demonstrated that the noble earl had bestowed great pains in considering this important question in all its bearings, and certainly he had argued it in a manner that reflected the highest honour upon him. He was by no means convinced, however, from any of the au-
499498† 2 Hawkins' Pleas of the Crown, 84.***497Lord Ellenborough
502501500 said, that in looking into his own mind, he could be quite sure his understanding was not betrayed by his wishes on the subject before the House. For the noble secretary of slate he had a high personal regard, and the two gentlemen from whose opinions he had collected the law which was the foundation of his letter, had been his companions
502501500Lord Erskine
533532 adverting to the discussion of the night before on the subject of the power of justices of the peace with respect to commitments for libel, observed, that it was unfit a question of such magnitude and importance should remain in its present state; it was necessary that the law, whatever it was, on the subject, should be fully understood and settled, and on that account it was his intention to move for a return of the precedents, which at least would establish what the practice had been; and he would in a day or two put his motion into a proper shape.—He was desirous to have a return of all the re-
533532Lord Erskine,
561560 objected to this bill, on the same principles on which
561560The Earl of Lauderdale
l. said, he would not have supported the bill, unless he had been satisfied that it was for the public advantage that it should pass. In the metropolis, he believed, these things were much better conducted by a competition between incorporated companies; and, as a security to the public that the object would be accomplished, 100,000l.Lord Kenyon
l.l. said, he had in the committee successfully endeavoured to get that clause introduced by which the company was prevented from exercising the authority which this bill would give them, until 100,000l.l.The Earl of Lauderdale
562 said, that if it was by the exertions of the noble earl that this clause was introduced, that noble earl had done the public a great service. He happened judiciously to know, that there could hardly be a greater evil than allowing such companies to begin their operations until such a sum had been sub-
562The Lord Chancellor
603602601 rose, and addressed their lordships as follows:603602601The Earl of Donoughmore
604 admitted, that he had used the words stated. He thought that these petitions did concern the vitals of the constitution—and, he was sure, if,
604The Lord Chancellor
614613612611610609608607concordat606605—I beg to observe, with great respect, that this interruption is not strictly correct. I shall, however, again advert to what the noble and learned lord said, on a former occasion. If the noble lord has so strong an opinion on this subject (which I am sure he feels, or he would not have so expressed himself), it must be most painful to him, in the course of his daily business, in his high office of a cabinet minister of the Crown—in the daily discharge of his most important duty, as a privy counsellor—to find himself surrounded by a number of brother privy counsellors and cabinet ministers, who are in favour of the measure, and who, he conceives, are aiming blows at the vitals of the constitution. Certainly, those strong expressions do a great deal of mischief—but sometimes they may be too strong. A case may be too well proved. I trust it will appear, that, in this case, more than enough has been proved—and, notwithstanding the pains which have been taken, to prejudice these petitioners in the minds of the public, I hope the cause will at last stand erect before both Houses of parliament, and that it will meet with that candid, fair, and liberal consideration which its importance demands.614613612611610609608607concordat606605The Earl of Donoughmore
620Protestant kingafterbeforenoascribedforeign influenceinclinedought619comparisonnotnotnotcivil worthcivil capacityimpossiblecivil worthcivi capacitydomestic sovereignforeignthat618enlightenedforeignmustwhomspiritualreligiousciviltemporalspiritualecclesiasticalcivil617civilentire:civil worthcivil capacitycivil worthcivil capacitycivil worthcivil capacitycivil616civil worthcivil capacitycivilpoliticalpoliticalpolitical powerpenaltiespainsreligious liberty615 rose, and addressed their lordships as follows:—620Protestant kingafterbeforenoascribedforeign influenceinclinedought619comparisonnotnotnotcivil worthcivil capacityimpossiblecivil worthcivi capacitydomestic sovereignforeignthat618enlightenedforeignmustwhomspiritualreligiousciviltemporalspiritualecclesiasticalcivil617civilentire:civil worthcivil capacitycivil worthcivil capacitycivil worthcivil capacitycivil616civil worthcivil capacitycivilpoliticalpoliticalpolitical powerpenaltiespainsreligious liberty615The Bishop of Llandaff [Dr. Herbert Marsh]
625624"No dangers fright him, and no labours tire;"623622621 rose and said:625624"No dangers fright him, and no labours tire;"623622621The Bishop of Norwich [Dr. Henry Bathurst]
638Norwick637ex post facto636****635† Ibid. Vol. 8, p. 595.******634ex post facto633******632631630629628627626**** [Dr. Robert Fowler] rose and said:—638Norwick637ex post facto636****635† Ibid. Vol. 8, p. 595.******634ex post facto633******632631630629628627626****The Bishop of Ossory
653652651650649648647646 rose and said:653652651650649648647646The Earl of Liverpool
sine quá non656655654 said:—sine quá non656655654The Earl of Darnley
677ipso facto676675 said:677ipso facto676675The Lord Chancellor
civil allegiance678leading principle in explanation, said;—The learned lord called upon me with an air of triumph, which, considering that he had obtained no victory, is rather premature. It is very easy to turn to the index of a large folio; and thus, as Mr. Pope says "To catch the eel of science by the tail." With the aid of a detached passage, unconnected with what has gone before, or follows after, almost any thing may be proved from almost any book. The civil allegiance678leading principleThe Bishop of Norwich,
674673"Nulli comes cxeo."672671670669Mine can forgive the wrong, and bid thee live."Thine bids thee lift thy dagger to my throat;"Now, learn the difference 'twixt thy faith and mine:668 rose and said:—674673"Nulli comes cxeo."672671670669Mine can forgive the wrong, and bid thee live."Thine bids thee lift thy dagger to my throat;"Now, learn the difference 'twixt thy faith and mine:668Earl Grey
645644643642de heretico comburendo641640639 said, that he had not intended, for many reasons, to trouble the House with his sentiments during the present debate, but that it was impossible for him to give the vote he intended to give, without some explanation, after what had fallen from a right rev. prelate, who intended to vote upon the same side of the question. In the course of previous discussions, it had frequently been his lot to hear positions from both sides equally untenable; and the present debate had afforded a fresh instance of this kind. If any thing could have driven him to give a vote in a contrary direction to that in which he intended to give it, it would have been a part of the speech of the right rev. prelate (bishop of Norwich), who spoke last but one; and if any thing could nave added to the conviction to which he had come, it would have been a part of the address of the right rev. prelate (the bishop of Ossory), whom he was immediately following. The former, for whom he entertained the highest sentiments of respect, had unadvisedly (if he might be permitted to suppose that any thing unadvised could proceed from such a quarter), uttered sentiments which, even if weighed with the greatest candour, must be held to be highly dangerous; and had (unintentionally, every one must be persuaded) thrown down a torch of discord, and encouraged those who wished to find an excuse for sedition and rebellion. The latter had stated some opinions, which he should notice in their proper place, and which he thought afforded a sufficient answer to the remainder of his speech.645644643642de heretico comburendo641640639The Earl of Harrowby
667666 rose and said:—667666Earl Bathurst
665664663662661660659658657 rose and said:665664663662661660659658657Lord Grenville
—" Mr. Manners Sutton; We have received his royal highness's commands to state to you, that he is so entirely satisfied of your abilities to perform the various and arduous duties of the high situation to which you have been elected, that he has caused the commission, under the great seal, which has just been read, to be issued; in obedience to which, and by virtue of it, we do declare this his majesty's royal allowance and confirmation of you to be his Speaker."The Lord Chancellor
 adverted to a statement in "the Courier" of what had been said in the debate on the Catholic question by a right rev. prelate (the bishop of Ossory), with respect to the titular archbishop of Dublin, Dr. Troy, to the effect that Dr. Troy had, in a pastoral letter, called upon the Catholics to refrain from petitioning, and to trust to their numbers and their strength. His lordship observed upon the great importance of not throwing unmerited calumny upon a large portion of the population of the empire, particularly upon those who had the education of that population in their hands; but was satisfied, at the same time, that there was no blame to be imputed to the editor of "the Courier." He did not therefore, intend to make any complaint; his object was, that the imputation which had thus been cast upon Dr. Troy should be completely done away. His lordship read a letter from Dr. Troy to himself upon the subject, stating that no such pastoral letter had been issued by him, and observed, that there was not a more loyal man in his majesty's dominions than Dr. Troy, who, instead of at all urging on the Catholics to acts of violence, had frequently declined even going those lengths, with regard to the Catholics, which their Protestant advocates considered as essential to this cause. He did not believe that the right rev. prelate alluded to uttered the words imputed to him; but he felt it his duty to call upon the right rev. prelate to state whether such words had been used by him or not?The Earl of Donoughmore
 expressed as sincere a regard for the character of Dr. Troy as the noble earl, and stated, that the expression imputed to him, with respect to Dr. Troy, had never fallen from his lips. His lordship was proceeding to state, that the point of time in the debate alluded to by the noble earl, was when he (the bishop of Ossory) was answering aright rev. prelate (the bishop of Norwich), whom he considered to have asserted what was unchristian and unconstitutional.The Bishop of Ossory
 spoke to order, observing, that though the courtesy of the House allowed to noble lords to explain any misrepresentations that had occurred of what took place in a former debate, it was going beyond the line marked out upon such occasions, to animadvert upon what had been said by others, particularly those who were not now present.Lord Holland
 agreed in opinion with the noble lord, and observed, that if they were to enter into discussions with respect to what had been said in newspapers, regarding what had passed in that House, he could not see where it was to end. He himself had been grossly slandered in the newspapers within these three days, but he should be ashamed of himself if he were to take notice of it within that House.The Lord Chancellor
 said, he had no wish in what he said, to prevent the right rev. prelate from explaining what he thought necessary, with regard to his own speech.Lord Holland
860 observed, that it was with very painful feelings that he brought down a message of such a nature, but he trusted their lordships would do him the justice to believe that it was only the strongest sense of duty that could have prompted the advisers of the Prince Regent to counsel his royal highness to send down such a message. It was for their lordships to determine what course of proceeding should be adopted with regard to the message. They would probably not object to his first motion for an address to
860Lord Sidmouth
 rose again, and observed, that he was not acquainted with any instances on the Journals in which a committee was moved for on the same day in which a message was brought down from the Throne; but the hands of parliament were not to be tied up, merely because there was no precedent for such a proceeding. The object intended by the usual course of moving for the committee on the following day was, to prevent the House from being taken by surprise. His noble friend had obviated such an objection in the present case, by giving notice of the day on which he expected to bring down the Message, and of his intention to move for the committee on the same day. No one, therefore, could say that the House was taken by surprise. If any other mode of proceeding than by committee was proposed, and an interval was necessary, in order to compare their respective merits, he would allow that such a consideration would furnish a good reason for delay; but no such proposal had been made. All they were called upon to do was, to pledge themselves to an immediate consideration of the subject, with which view he should move, That the papers be referred to a committee of secresy.Lord Sidmouth
864 said, that his noble friend had not asserted that no precedent existed for the step proposed, but I that he was not at that moment prepared to produce one exactly analogous. It could not be alleged that the House was taken by surprise, because even notice of the message (a course not usually; adopted) had been given. The very appearance of the House, the fulness of the benches, was an evidence that more than formal business was expected. The postponement of this motion for even a day or two, at this late period of the session, might be attended with great inconvenience. Nothing but a strong sense of duty could have induced ministers to adopt a course so unpopular. Whatever odium might attach to them in consequence, they were ready to sustain: they had acted under a conviction of duty, and from that duty they would, not shrink.
864The Earl of Liverpool
 heartily joined in the regret expressed by his noble friend that the royal message, threatening such dreadful consequences, had been sent down to parliament. Under such circumstances, all due forms ought to be rigidly observed. A departure from the established practice might be attended with the most dangerous consequences, as on some future occasion the proceedings of that night might be quoted as an authority, when the ministers wished to carry in haste some arbitrary and unconstitutional measure. Under the present circumstances, such a neglect of established forms could not but be viewed with an eye of suspicion.Earl Grosvenor
prima facie thought the present question had nothing to do with the inquiries which were to be the objects of the consideration of the committee, and ought to rest entirely on its own merits. Their lordships had not now to make up their minds as to the necessity of any measures, but to decide whether there should be a committee or not. Sufficient notice had, in his opinion, been given; and what their lordships had now to consider was, whether a prima facieThe Marquis of Buckingham
868prima facieprima facieprima facieonus probandi867 was not a little astonished at what had fallen from his noble friend. The noble viscount regretted to have to bring down messages like that which had been that day submitted to the House, though he contended for the necessity of the measures he proposed. That he should be anxious for forwarding his measures without delay was what he could easily conceive, but he could not understand why other noble lords should show an extraordinary impatience for the continuance of measures, the object of which
868prima facieprima facieprima facieonus probandi867Lord Holland
 stated, in explanation, that he had been misrepresented, no doubt unintentionally, by his noble friend, as his desire for the speedy appointment of the proposed committee proceeded from an anxiety to ascertain whether it was necessary any longer to suspend the privileges of the people.The Marquis of Buckingham
 said, that as their lordships had agreed to refer the message of the Prince Regent, and the papers which accompanied it, to a committee, it was now necessary to consider in what manner that committee ought to be appointed. The usual mode in which former secret committees had been appointed was by ballot; but that mode required the preparation of glasses, and the depositing of lists, which would occasion considerable delay. He thought, therefore, that immediate nomination would be more consistent with the course which had been taken. The noble viscount concluded by moving the names of the noble lords who composed the former committee, but substituting the earl of Talbot for the duke of Bedford.Lord Sidmouth
869 had no objection, personal or political, to the noble earl who had been proposed by the noble viscount; but as it was understood that that noble earl was going to Ireland, he did not think him on that account the most proper per-
869Lord Holland
872871870 said, he should now proceed in a motion, of which he had given notice. He had a charge against the noble secretary of state, heavier than that of dispensing with precedents; it was a charge that he had assumed a power to dispense with the written laws of the land. An act, it was known, had been passed that session, commonly called the suspension of the Habeas Corpus, but which more properly might be called, an act divesting persons of their right of being brought to trial within a limited time. By that statute the secretary of state was invested with the power of keeping any person charged with certain offences, in prison, and of transferring him from prison to prison; but the law gave no other power nor took away any power with which he was previously invested. A few days since he had met with a correspondence in a public journal, between some magistrates in Berkshire and the secretary of state, with respect to the conduct to be pursued to some state prisoners in Reading gaol. He did not understand how these gentlemen had thought fit to apply to the secretary of state. They had to act on their own responsibility, and it was their business to become acquainted with their duty from their own legal research: the secretary of state was no authorized expounder of the law. So it was, however, that these magistrates had sent to
872871870Lord Holland
873 said, he had been charged with having assumed an authority, and having harshly exercised it. In the performance of the arduous duties he had to discharge, he had always taken the advice of the law officers of the Crown, and by their opinions he had been guided; though he begged to be understood, that he did not wish to throw off from himself the responsibility of the line of conduct he had adopted. As to the gaols of the kingdom, he had always understood they were his majesty's gaols, and that it was a part of the king's prerogative to give orders for the government of those gaols, which power was only restrained by justice, humanity, and the law of the land. The clause in the act of the 31st of the king could in no wise affect the prerogative, as that could not have been done without special enactment. The course taken with regard to state prisoners was always different from that pursued with other prisoners. Persons in general were merely committed to the custody of the gaoler; in state offences the warrant expressed it "to close and safe custody. The privy council or secretary of state by which soever they had been committed, made regulations for their treatment; and when the prisoners were brought under the cognizance of the court of King's-bench by indictment, or by a bill found by the grand jury, that court had always
873Lord Sidmouth
 said, it was impossible to read the 31st George the 3rd, and to suppose that it ever was meant to apply to state prisoners; it was merely intended to regulate gaols and penitentiary houses in ordinary cases. His noble friend had acted in exact conformity to the uniform practice which had taken place since 1791, with the exception, that under his superintendence more leniency had been shown to the prisoners than they formerly experienced. They had, therefore, an experience of 26 years in their favour, during which time the Habeas Corpus act had been several times suspended. Before the 31st of the king there were other acts regulating the power of justices of peace with regard to gaols; but the provisions of these acts were never supposed to restrain the power of the Crown with respect to state prisoners. It was impossible, in the nature of things, that the provisions of the act of 31st could be meant to apply to state prisoners. It never was in the contemplation of those persons who brought it in, or those by whom it was passed, to deprive the secretary of state of the power of regulating the treatment of state prisoners. He contended, therefore, that his noble friend was justified, by the understanding of parliament, and by all the law authorities, in acting in the manner he had done.The Earl of Liverpool
876 thought it his duty to look at the expressions in the act itself. In this he was borne out by the noble secretary of state, who, on a former occasion, had observed, that it was not the meaning of the movers and supporters of an act that was to be looked at—but that
876The Earl of Rosslyn
877obiter dictumdernier resort felt it necessary to preface any observations which he might make with the same protest which he had made on a late legal question in that House—he meant, that he must beg not to be concluded or bound by any remark which he might give as a member of that House. The plain reason for such a protest was this—that as that House was the 877obiter dictumdernier resortThe Lord Chancellor
878 said, that the main point now before the House was, whether the noble secretary was justified in suspending the right hitherto possessed by magistrates of inspecting all the gaols of the kingdom. The noble lord had admitted that the justices were enabled, under the act, to visit the gaols; but he seemed to contend that it was a part of the king's prerogative to keep them out of the gaols. He had called the gaols, the king's gaols, and seemed to consider them exclusively under the jurisdiction of his ministers; but the same language might be held of the army, the navy, the courts of justice, and of many other portions of the executive. It was in common language the king's army, the king's court, the king's navy; but no one ever contended that on that account these branches of public service were exempt from the ordinary operation of the laws. The reasons applied by the secretary of state for exemption from the provisions of this act went equally to sweep away the authority of all acts of parliament. In other cases, indeed, the noble lord had been ready enough to allow the magistrates a
878Lord Holland
—" My lords; I submit, with all humility, to his royal highness's most gracious will; and I beg to avail myself of this opportunity of expressing the sense of gratitude I feel for this high and distinguished mark of approbation. If, my lords, in the discharge of the various duties of this situation, and in supporting the rights and privileges of the Commons House of Parliament, I should involuntarily commit any error, I implore that it may be imputed to me alone, and not to his majesty's faithful and loyal Commons."The Speaker.
 then addressed the Lords Commissioners as follows:—"My lords; In obedience to the commands of his royal highness the Prince Regent, acting in the name and on behalf of his majesty, his majesty's most faithful Commons of the united kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland have proceeded to elect a Speaker, and it is my duty to acquaint your lordships, that their choice has fallen on me. When I contemplate the many and arduous duties necessarily attached to that high and distinguished situation, it is impossible but that I must feel apprehensive of my own inadequacy to the full and proper discharge of those important duties. If it should be the pleasure of his royal highness the Prince Regent to disapprove of this choice, his majesty's faithful Commons may have reason to be grateful, as I am persuaded they would have no difficulty in selecting from amongst their members some other individual better qualified than myself for this high and important office."The Speaker
863862onus,861 said, that the words "immediate consideration," used in the address, ought not to be understood as pledging any member to more than such an immediate consideration as was consistent with
863862onus,861Earl Grey
 said, he did not object to an address of thanks, but he wished it to be understood that he did not thereby pledge himself as to any ulterior proceeding.Earl Grey
875prima facie,874 was of opinion that a more mitigated answer could have been given to ail the questions. With respect to papers and books, there seemed to have been a very unnecessary degree of rigour and severity exercised. But whether the noble lord had exceeded his powers, the act of parliament was express and decisive. One clause was explicit, actually compelling magistrates to visit prisoners. Another was equally explicit, empowering them to visit. He had felt very curious to hear the noble secretary's answer to this point. The act had appeared to him evident and distinct; and unless the noble lord could cite some subsequent statutes to justify his conduct, it had appeared to him that his conduct was in direct contravention of a public statute made to protect prisoners from undue harshness and injustice. What answer, then, did the noble lord give? Usage was appealed to. Lords, Holt and Raymond were eminent and distinguished judges. But the decisions referred to were not in point. They regarded quite a different principle. The noble lord ought to have,
875prima facie,874Earl Grey
 said, that as the learned lord on the woolsack had much business to do in the court of chancery, it would be most unfair to throw a new duty on him to examine the papers to be laid before the committee; he should therefore move that his name be omitted, for the purpose of introducing that of the earl of Rosslyn.Earl Grey
 said, that though a ballot required glasses, lists, and various preparations, which would occasion a delay, he did not consider that objectionable. When it was proposed to continue the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, it was the duty of the Mouse to proceed with the greatest caution, and every delay was therefore an advantage. The noble earl: concluded by proposing lord Rosslyn instead of the earl of Talbot, as a substitute for the duke of Bedford.Earl Grey
 conceived the main point to be, whether the magistrates should be deprived of that power of visiting prisons which had hitherto by law belonged to them. The learned lord would perhaps recover from that surprise which he at present professed, if the question were adjourned to another day: he would then be able to give it that consideration which he had maintained to be necessary for a right decision of so important a point: with this view, therefore, and because he thought the question one of the highest moment, he should move to adjourn the consideration of the question to Monday next.Earl Spencer
866865 acquitted the noble secretary of all intention to take the House by surprise: the notice of the message pot an end to all doubt upon that point. The question was only this—whether on a subject of such magnitude, the reference of the papers to the committee should be postponed for two days: and recollecting the measures to which the report of the former committee had led, he would say, that if many precedents had been adduced in favour of precipitation, he should have deprecated any obedience to them: no number of precedents could satisfy him that the House should renew, without the utmost caution and repugnance, a measure giving powers unknown to the constitution
866865Earl Spencer
 said, he did not think it necessary to take up the time of the House in descanting upon the well known merits of the distinguished individual alluded to in the message; and though those merits might in strictness be better appreciated in the other House, than by their lordships, yet, there were opportunities afforded by which they might form a just estimate of the talents and ability of the Speaker of the other House. It was the practice of the constitution, that the Speaker of the House of Commons should, on being chosen, receive the approbation of the Crown, and the individual of whom he was now speaking, had received that approbation no less than five times, he having held the office of Speaker for a longer period, with one exception, than had been known in the history of parliament. He had filled the chair, too, in arduous and difficult times, during all which, his conduct had been, as it deserved, highly approved of, and their lordships were enabled to appreciate that conduct from the manly and eloquent manner in which the individual alluded to delivered himself at the bar of their House, in his speeches to the throne. It was the practice of the Crown to reward distinguished naval and military services, by conferring rank and sending a message desiring that a provision might be given to support the rank so conferred, and he trusted there would be no objection to the rewarding in the same manner, the distinguished civil services of the individual referred to in the message. His lordship concluded by moving an address to the Prince Regent, concurring in the object of the message, which was agreed to.The Earl of Liverpool
930929 on moving the third reading of this bill, stated shortly, the grounds on which it was proposed. He admitted, that the general principle was against measures of this nature, because it was much better, with regard to the greater part of public works, to leave them to those who undertook them as a commercial speculation, and with a view to profit, than to interpose the assistance of government. And the fact was, that the greater part of those
930929The Earl of Liverpool,
932931 was glad to hear the noble lord advocate the general principle, that it was unwise in government to interfere in affording aid for the carrying on of public works which were best conducted by individuals as a speculation with a view to their own profit. He could not, however, see, that in the argument with regard to the exception, any good ground was laid for the present measure. The noble lord had himself admitted, that with respect to the proposed advances of money to parishes, the bill would be of no use; why, then, insert these clauses at all? The only effect would be to increase discontent. A general idea had gone forth, that this bill was to operate as a sort of general parochial relief, and what must necessarily be the effect of the disappointment but increased discontent? The measure was altogether one which it would be much better not to pass; and when he saw that after three
932931The Earl of Lauderdale
 opposed the bill rather upon general principles than on any reference to the merits of the particular case. He deprecated the frequency of applications of the kind, and adverted to the circumstance of several of the pictures in question being in an unfinished state, which he regarded as an unfavourable consideration in the case before their lordships.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, the report of the Committee of Secrecy being upon the table, he now presented a bill for continuing the power to his majesty of securing and detaining in custody persons charged with conspiring against his majesty's person and government. Their lordships might be assured that this bill was only brought forward under the full conviction of its indispensable and urgent necessity. The ground of the measure he reserved stating till Monday, when he proposed to move the second reading of the bill.Lord Sidmouth
 said, that following the example of the noble viscount, he also should reserve till Monday the reasons upon which he founded his opinion in direct contradiction to that of the noble viscount as from all that he had seen or heard, he was satisfied there was no necessity whatever for the continuance of a measure for suspending the rights and liberties of the people of England.Earl Grey
959958957command pursuant to notice, moved the second leading of this bill, which he offered to the most favourable consideration of the House, but not, he said, in that imperative manner which a circular paper of some friend of Mr. Tomkins, sent to many of their lordships, had laughably enough represented, viz. that he (lord Erskine) as a great patron of the arts, was to 959958957commandLord Erskine,
 adverting to the observation of earl Grosvenor, that the disaffected were not supported by persons of any consequence, stated, that he was of a different opinion; for the speeches of certain noble lords in that House gave a spirit and encouragement to their designs. He had supported the ministers in these measures, which, as he contended, were necessary and expedient; and would always support them as long as they continued to promote the best interests of the country. His support was perfectly independent, for he had nothing to ask and nothing to fear. He had the fullest confidence in them, and was willing to trust them with these powers for the advantage of the country.Lord Rolle
974 said, that there was one part of the noble lord's speech which he could not suffer to pass without observation. His noble friend had said, that the miserable individuals now standing in court for their deliverance, were not connected with persons of any consequence. He (earl Grey) having also attended during the greater part of the trial, was of the same opinion; and could safely say, that nothing could be more extravagant than the plans of the prisoners, if plans they had; that nothing could be more contemptible or hopeless than their means for carrying the plans into execution; and that the prisoners had not been connected with any persons capable of giving them any serious assistance. But the noble lord who spoke last had said, that the disaffected had been connected with persons of consequence in secret plots and conspiracies: and when the noble lord ought, as he expected he would have done, to have named the persons of consequence engaged with them in these plots and conspiracies, instead of doing that, the noble lord had, in a manner which was disor-
974Earl Grey
 said, that the noble earl had certainly misquoted and misunderstood what he had said. He had not charged the noble earl and his friends with giving countenance to traitorous plots and conspiracies. He had only said that the speeches of certain noble lords in that House had, not intentionally, but in their consequences, given spirit to the disaffected.Lord Rolle
 added, that if the noble lord insinuated that he and those who concurred with him encouraged traitorous plots and conspiracies, he could find no other terms in which to express his answer, than that he held the imputation in utter contempt.Earl Grey
 having objected, that earl Grosvenor had given no notice of his motion, it was withdrawn for that time.Lord Sidmouth
981980979978977976 observed, that when he presented to their lordships, the other day, the bill for the continuation of the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, he had stated, that he Would not have done so except with the firmest conviction that the adoption of it was necessary. He admitted, however, that their lordships would not and ought not to adopt it without a similar conviction: but the necessity of the measure was apparent from facts and circumstances which were notorious. Many persons, he knew, when the measure was proposed at the beginning of the session, thought that there was no reasonable ground of hope that the necessity for it would cease before the end of the session. Such, however, at that time was not the opinion of his majesty's ministers; for, notwithstanding the painful necessity under which they found themselves, of calling upon parliament to adopt a measure of this nature, they did indulge the hope that they would have the satisfaction of seeing its operation close with the session. In that hope, however, they had unfortunately been disappointed: but instead of following the precedents of former times, and proposing to parliament to continue the suspension without a preliminary inquiry, the ministers of the Crown, considering that this was a period of peace, had thought it proper to recommend a new inquiry by a committee of that House; and to lay before that committee new facts and additional information which had reached government in the interval between that and the former inquiry. They had desired their lordships not to adopt any farther proceeding till their own committee should have made its report, and now that report was before them. The report, after mentioning that the committee had examined the papers, proceeded in the second sentence to state, "that it was their painful duty to report, that these papers afforded but too many proofs of the continued existence of a traitorous conspiracy for the overthrow of our established government and constitution, and for the subversion of the existing order of society." The committee then proceeded to state the several grounds and circumstances on which this painful conviction rested. They stated that the first disturbances, since the period of their former report, took place at Manchester; and then they set forth the designs
981980979978977976Lord Sidmouth
1009100810071006 admitted, that in considering the evil to be guarded against, a stronger remedy ought not to be applied than that evil required. But what was
1009100810071006The Earl of Liverpool
1013"Uno avulso, non deficit alter."101210111010 began by saying, that he had listened with attention to all that had been said in defence of a measure resting on grounds entirely new, and but too likely to be drawn into a new precedent for the evil imitation of future times. He agreed perfectly with the observation, that occasions might arise in which it would be necessary to suspend the constitution; but he knew also with what circumspection, with what self-examination, it behoved those to proceed who were about to put away from them the sa-
1013"Uno avulso, non deficit alter."101210111010The Marquis of Lansdown
987 said, that he entirely concurred in many of the sentiments expressed by the noble and learned lord who had just sat down, though he could not agree in the practical conclusions he had drawn from them. He approved of the proposed measure as one which the exigency of the times required. He was old enough to remember the dreadful proceedings in the year 1780. He recollected then to have seen this metropolis on fire in two or three places at once: he saw the mob, and witnessed their devastations. What was the result? Government was at last compelled to put the rioters down; but that which might have been done with comparative ease at first, could not afterwards be accomplished without great loss of blood. Warned by that example, he therefore thought they should not allow
987The Duke of Montrose
991l990989988 began by observing, that he was not more disposed to countenance atrocities, than the last noble speaker, but weak and miserable must be the execution of the existing laws, if those statutes which had been lately passed by parliament were not sufficient for the repression of any civil disorders that were likely to happen. The noble viscount who commenced the debate, had brought forward the business with great solemnity, and no doubt he was deeply impressed with the importance and necessity of the measure. He (lord Grosvenor) was also deeply impressed with its importance, because he thought it precisely that sort of proceeding which was calculated to increase disaffection, and create resentments throughout the country. The necessity of it he utterly denied. Could it be believed, that a government possesisng such a military force as was now maintained, commanding also such large majorities in both Houses, was reduced to the necessity of having recourse to this measure, in order to preserve the public peace and tranquillity? But admitting they were compelled to employ such a power, could it be imagined that the exercise of the power would accomplish the desired object? He would observe also, that if they allowed the validity of the arguments they had that night heard in support of the suspension, it would be difficult, nay impos-
991l990989988Earl Grosvenor
996995 said, that the evils of the year 1780 were owing to want of vigilance, and the security against their recurrence was vigilance, and not the suspension of our laws and liberties. If tenfold the danger existed, there would be neither necessity nor reason for suspending the great safeguard of the constitution. The report stated, that the magistrates had displayed great intelligence and activity; that the yeomanry had been called out, and exhibited great energy and intrepidity: that on the part of the former, there was the greatest vigilance, and on that of the latter the most prompt obedience and that by their united efforts they had overcome any resistance that had been offered. Why, then, should farther powers be granted, when the ordinary administration of the laws by the existing authorities had been so effective? The report farther stated in very vague terms, that arms had been prepared; but it did not authorize a belief that these preparations were to any considerable extent. One part of this report was more vague and indefinite than the rest: it spoke of the existence of traces of an intention to issue proclamations to free the subjects of the kingdom from their allegiance; but it added, that no preparations were made for the purpose, and that no draught of such documents was found. Thus, proclamations which were not drawn up, but existed in conjecture, were made a characteristic prelude to a plot that was never
996995Lord King
 said, that after the numerous able arguments their lordships had heard against the measure, he should beg leave only to submit one additional reflection, which had forcibly struck him in a moral point of view. It was this: he had witnessed the effects of arbitrary power upon the subjects of other countries, and he observed that poison and assassination were prevalent amongst them. In this country these dreadful practices were scarcely known. But if the expressions of popular sentiment were suppressed or circumscribed, as it might be by such measures as that under consideration, it was much to be feared, that it would endeavour to find vent some other way. Should this measure pass into a law, it would be his duty to submit to it; but until it did, he would oppose it in every stage.The Duke of Sussex
100510041003100210011000999998997 said, that so portentous was this night's discussion to the liberties of the country, that under every disadvantage under which he laboured, and with whatever degree of suffering the delivery of his opinions might be attended, he would raise his voice against the invasion intended to be made on the constitution. On this occasion, as well as when the subject was last before the House, he had to state, that he was as ready as any man to condemn the attempts and the designs of those who took advantage of the existing distress to irritate the minds of the sufferers, and to lead them to acts of violence; a distress, however, borne in general with a degree of patience and tranquillity which nothing but a free constitution could inspire, and which the people of this country could exhibit only while they were allowed to retain it unimpaired, and to enjoy its benefits without encroachment. The great question to be now decided was, whether the persons who were intended to be affected by this bill were capable of producing mischief to the constitution if it did not pass?—Whether they had the means of being dangerous under a due administration of the laws; whether, in order to control their designs, it was proper to resort to a measure never formerly adopted, except in cases of paramount necessity?—and whether it was requisite, in fine, to surrender the liberties of the people to the servants of the Crown on such a report as had now been laid before the House? Believing that the suspension of the Habeas Corpus was not now the proper remedy for the discontents that prevailed, he would call upon their lordships not to entertain such a measure, for which no sufficient grounds were laid when it formerly passed, and the justification of which been lessened by every thing which he had since heard. What was the danger which it was intended to obviate? It was a danger arising from severe and intolerable distress, which had been excited to irritation, and-led on to disturb the tranquillity of the country by wicked and designing men. Was this a species of danger similar to that which existed on former occasions, when the Habeas Corpus act was suspended?100510041003100210011000999998997Earl Grey
1015 felt great pain in differing from the noble baron, for whose opinions and character he had entertained for many years such high respect; but on this occasion he could gather no solid grounds of argument in favour of the awful and dangerous experiment that was proposed. Nothing short of absolute necessity could justify the measure; and that necessity had not been shown. It was true, that remedies must be applied to evils, and that prevention was better than punishment, but his mind was so constituted, that he could not see that the proposed measure
1015Earl Spencer
994And clap the padlock on their mind."Let all their ways he unconfin'd,Be to their virtues very kind;"Be to their faults a little blind,993992 spoke in favour of the bill, which he firmly believed would excite great general confidence, and not great general discontent. He supported it, not only because he thought it necessary, but because he was as thoroughly persuaded of its necessity as he was of any one power with which the executive government was entrusted. He agreed with what had fallen from some noble lords, that there was nothing in the report which proved the dis-
994And clap the padlock on their mind."Let all their ways he unconfin'd,Be to their virtues very kind;"Be to their faults a little blind,993992Lord Redesdale
986985984983notoriously982 said, that with every wish to support the just authority of government, he felt it quite impossible to consent to any farther suspension of the Habeas Corpus, and thus to invest the ministers of the Crown with an absolute dominion.—To justify this second demand of so extraordinary and unnecessary a trust, his noble friend had appealed, and he had, no doubt, with a clear conscience to the purity of his motives; and (he lord E.) in his turn could appeal to God himself for the purity of his own. He could not, it was true, but have a strong predilection for the opinions he had always entertained, for the principles he had always adopted, and the friends with whom he had acted; but with that bias only excepted, which applied alike to every body, no man could be more disinterested or independent, since under no possible changes would he be a candidate for any office or employment whatsoever.—He looked only to the support of the constitution, and to the prosperity of the country, which forages had flourished by its preservation. There was, in his opinion, a strong analogy between diseases of the natural body and disorders of the state, when the proper remedies for either came to be considered. It was the very characteristic of a wise and skilful physician, well to ascertain the causes of any morbid symptoms, before he attempted to remove them, because the least mistake in that respect was sure to aggravate and confirm them. What then were the causes of that disturbed state of the country, which was the subject of the first report, and of the renewed one now before them. The causes were manifest in the universal and unexampled distresses of all classes of the people, suddenly arising from a ruinous check to the long overstrained, unnatural
986985984983notoriously982Lord Erskine
1014 declared, that, in giving his best support to the measure now under consideration, he was induced to do so from a sincere belief that he was at the same time contributing his best support to the cause of freedom itself, as well as to the happiness and security of the country. When he assented to a similar proceeding three months ago, he had indeed, but little expectation that in so short a period there would be such a change in the circumstances and dispositions upon which it was founded, as would render it unnecessary, subsequently to prolong its duration. He concurred, however, in the necessity of passing it for a limited period, because he deemed it right that parliament should reserve to itself the power of acting upon new information, in the event of new and important information being obtained. He must also declare that he did not feel his character involved in the report of the committees of which he had been an humble member. It was not a pleasing duty to perform; but they had all, as he believed, as he was conscious he, for his own part, had done, proceeded with the best views upon the information before them. He could have no inducement on this occasion to act upon any other principle than a sense of public duty: and although it would only be with life itself that he would entirely abandon pursuits, and desert a cause in which he had been engaged for five and thirty years, yet it was not improbable that this might be almost the last occasion on which he should have to claim the attention of their lordships. Whilst he concurred in much of what was said as to the danger of the powers it was proposed to intrust to the executive government, and as to the misconduct of persons who instigated the crimes which they were employed to detect, he could not admit that intelligence derived from such quarters, and the credibility of which was supported by coincident circumstances, was not a fair and even necessary ground in some cases of legislative interference. Whether there had been misconduct or not on the part of ministers, he could not doubt of the result of the whole examination, taken into view all the circumstances. A conspiracy existed for objects detailed in the report, and the progress of which their lordships were imperiously called upon to stop. The prevention of
1014Lord Grenville
espionage1062 said, that the present question before their lordships was simply this, what is the nature of the danger you dread, and what is the remedy you propose for such a danger? Much allusion had been made to the French Revolution, and, indeed, that important event seemed to have got such hold of the minds of some, that looking back to what had occurred, or forward to what might happen, they could think of nothing else. All he wanted to know was, whether the proposed remedy would do that good which was expected to flow from it? He would not particularly allude to the year 1791 as a precedent, because then the country was at war, and besides the conspiracy, if a conspiracy then existed, was connected with France, and supported by it. But surely such was not the case now, for in the very report on their lordships table, it was candidly admitted, that the great body of the people were loyal to their sovereign
espionage1062Lord Holland
Majority for the third reading. 104
Majority for the third reading. 10437—
37—17Proxies.
17Proxies.20Non-contents—present.
20Non-contents—present.141—
141—68Proxies.
68Proxies.73Contents—presenr.
73Contents—presenr.
Majority for the third reading. 104
Majority for the third reading. 10437—
37—17Proxies.
17Proxies.20Non-contents—present.
20Non-contents—present.141—
141—68Proxies.
68Proxies.73Contents—presenr.
73Contents—presenr.1063 gave every credit to those who opposed the bill for their love of the constitution, although he thought their opposition altogether unfounded. He was not so absurd as to support the suspension of the Habeas Corpus, because there were many individuals who wished for annual parliaments and universal suffrage, and many others who preferred a republic to a monarchy. There were other and very different grounds for the measure. While he allowed to the
Majority for the third reading. 104
Majority for the third reading. 10437—
37—17Proxies.
17Proxies.20Non-contents—present.
20Non-contents—present.141—
141—68Proxies.
68Proxies.73Contents—presenr.
73Contents—presenr.
Majority for the third reading. 104
Majority for the third reading. 10437—
37—17Proxies.
17Proxies.20Non-contents—present.
20Non-contents—present.141—
141—68Proxies.
68Proxies.73Contents—presenr.
73Contents—presenr.1063The Lord Chancellor
1048 said, it was admitted on all hands that there might be circumstances under which it would be proper to resort to this measure; and some of the noble lords opposite who had spoken against the bill, must allow that there had been times when the measure was necessary. Then, the short question was, is this a proper time for the suspension? It had been objected to this proceeding, that the act would be in existence at a time when parliament would be prorogued, or perhaps dissolved: but it appeared to him only the more necessary, that the power should exist at that period, because, in case a particular emergency should arise, government could not immediately apply to parliament for assistance. Then it had been objected that a period of peace was a very improper time for such a measure: but whether the time was a time of war or of peace was not the question. The question was, whether the exigency existed? But he thought that the reason for such a measure might be stronger in time of peace than in time of war, because in time of peace the country was in a great measure disarmed. But the question was, whether the exigency existed? Now, there could be no question that conspiracies and plots against the government had been and were still carried on to an extent sufficient to excite alarm for the public safety in the minds of all, except in the firm and tranquil minds of the noble lords opposite: this was the conclusion come to by two committees of their lordships. It might be asked, why the duration of the suspension had not been at first continued for a longer period? The answer was, that ministers were anxious that these powers should not continue longer than parliament and the country might think them necessary. Then it had been said, that the suspension might be allowed to expire, and that if a particular emergency arose, government migh call the parliament together, and procure a renewal of those powers. But if that were done, then it would be objected, that ministers had not thought proper to apply for the renewal in a full parliament, but had suffered the suspension to expire that they might get it renewed by a few of their own friends. The noble duke had asserted that the employment of spies was unconstitutional. That was rather an extraordinary assertion,
1048The Earl of Westmoreland
1049 observed, that the noble earl who had just sat down had said he could answer for the majority of parliament, which, perhaps, he might do; but, as to the people, he was not only convinced the majority of them were not with the ministers in the measures they were now pursuing; but he was satisfied the statement to this effect would excite amongst the people a feeling of indignation, he had almost said though he rather believed it would excite a feeling of a very different kind. It seemed, however, from what had been said by the noble earl, that spies and informers were associated with ministers that they were to be treated with respect; that such men as Castles or Oliver (of whom they had heard something on a former night), or a man who had procured several Irishmen for a rebellion in which he had participated, being himself first a rebel, and then an informer, were all to be treated with respect, and considered as gentlemen. No one could hear what had been said by a noble duke without attaching great importance to what had been said. The noble earl who followed him, had endeavoured to pick holes in that speech, but he had shaken no material part of it. The noble duke had given evidence to them, and most material evidence. He had stated what he himself had done in the government of a country which certainly was not one of the least difficult to govern well, as the noble earl well knew. But certainly the noble earl did not find Ireland in a state so disturbed as it was found by the noble duke, nor did he leave it so quiet as the noble duke left it. The noble duke had stated what he had found the best mode of governing the Irish, and which would also be found the best mode of governing British subjects—conciliation. The circumstances under which they were called on to re-enact the law which had given such power to the ministers, were such, that no man who was at all in the habit of addressing the House should give a silent vote. If he had been in the House when
1049The Earl of Donoughmore
1050 rose to reply to some allusions which had been made by the noble earl who spoke last to the character of Mr. Reynolds. He would say, without fear of contradiction, that in a time of great danger and alarm, the individual in question had rendered important services to his country. This individual had originally a considerable fortune, and was connected with respectable society; but having wasted his property, and left
1050The Earl of Limerick
 said, that of the two persons mentioned, Castles and Oliver, as spies and informers, Castles was not a spy. He had never given information to government till five weeks after the 2d of December. Oliver was employed by government to avert imminent danger. The noble earl had founded his remarks on the statement in a news paper. That statement, he believed, was incorrect, in many material points.Lord Sidmouth
1052 said, he must enter his solemn protest against a measure which he considered to be as unnecessary, as it was destructive of the first principles of the constitution. What was the nature of; the alleged conspiracies? They had seen a proof in the trials which had recently occurred; and he really wondered that the law officers of the down were not ashamed to offer such a case, accompanied with so much solemnity, to the attention and good sense of a jury. When he remembered the issue of that prosecution, he should have thought the noble viscount, feeling impressed with a consciousness of his rashness, would have come down clothed in sackcloth and ashes, and humbled himself before the legislature, instead of persisting in his original error. With regard to the present act, as compared with the former one, he would wish to impress one fact upon their lordships attention. It
1052Lord St. John
1053 could not allow, because there was a character of absurdity belonging to the late conspiracies, that therefore their consequences were not to be feared. Had not the result of those plots been an insurrection, only short of rebellion, in consequence of the vigilance of government? There were sufficient grounds, in his judgment, to call for such a measure as the present. There was the report of the first committee, which contained ample reasons for the bill then brought in. They had now the report of another committee, and which report he thought, was highly honourable to that committee. Called upon, as they were, to investigate matters of such consequence and finding adequate evidence to induce, them to recommend the re-adoption of the former measure, they at the same time, candidly admitted that the government had been obliged, as all governments were, to employ persons for the purpose of discovering the machinations of the conspirators. And after all, what was the proposed suspension? Only for a short time.
1053Lord Somers
106010591058dormiente consule.sedente et cunctante,1057l105610551054 said, he had not the vanity to think that he could by any flattery perplex the understanding, or change the opinion of the noble lord who had last spoken; although, from an early acquaintance with him, he entertained a sincere respect for his talents, and his integrity. But he would not describe the people of England as the noble lord had described them; nor would he believe that it was in the power of any man, however excellent his character or great his talents, to flatter them either into an abandonment of their rights, or a belief that that was a right which was not so sub-
106010591058dormiente consule.sedente et cunctante,1057l105610551054The Marquis Wellesley
1061 maintained, that from the result of the late trials, it could only be concluded, that the persons accused were legally acquitted; but it could not be concluded, that ministers would have been justifiable, if they had declined sending their case to trial. The dangers resulting from the combination of uneducated persons, could not be disregarded by any one acquainted with ancient or modern history. The successful revolts of such people in ancient Greece, must be familiar to the minds of their lordships; and it was notorious to all, that the taking of the Bastile, in France, was accomplished by persons of that description. He might also allude to the case of Despard in this country, and he would ask, could there be a plan more absurd than the one he formed, yet, happily, he was baffled. It was useless then to argue of plans being absurd, or of their being conducted by the lowest classes in society. He was persuaded the committee had done no more than its duty in recommending the further continuation of the suspension, for he firmly believed that much quiet had been introduced into the country since the passing of this act, which would not otherwise have taken place. Alluding to the insurrection in
1061The Earl of Harrowby
1051 said, he knew nothing of the case of Mr. Reynolds, but he apprehended there was a vast difference between men who acted as spies (revolting to the feelings as that occupation was) and such men as Oliver, who incited their victims to commit the crimes for which they informed against them. That horrid monster, for instance, had endeavoured to engage the wife of a man to induce him by her persuasion to go to a meeting, his presence at which would have involved
1051The Earl of Essex
 stated, that Mr. Reynolds had given important information to the Irish government of a plot in agitation. He had communicated it to a friend, so as to give intelligence enough to frustrate the plot without personally appearing, and it was not till he was arrested that he was induced to give direct evidence. He had then given testimony in a manner which was not to be contradicted, and on that evidence two or three traitors had been convicted, who afterwards acknowledged their crimes. He gave his hearty assent to the measure under discussion.The Marquis Camden
1047espionage10461045 said, he could not reconcile it to his sense of public duty, now that the bill had arrived at its last stage, not to deliver his solemn protest against it. He trusted their lordships
1047espionage10461045The Duke of Bedford
1205 presented a bill to regulate the administration of
1205Lord Melville
llll1258125712561255 proceeded to state the general ground upon which these bills rested. Their lordships would observe, that these bills, including the compensation bill, were to be considered as one measure. A bill of a nature somewhat similar, he was aware, had come to that House before; and if a bill were to come now in such a shape, he would undoubtedly oppose it. He did not mean to say that there were not in that bill some valuable regulations; but that bill consolidated all sinecures, judicial and political, and went to abolish some most efficient offices. It adopted one of the most extravagant principles of compensation that could be conceived. It classed the office of clerk of the pells with that of the lord privy seal, and was full of absurdities from beginning to end. The principle upon which he recommended these bills to their lordships attention was this—that whatever regulation of this kind might be adopted, there was a necessity for reserving to the Crown the means of rewarding public services; and he certainly would not have
llll1258125712561255The Earl of Liverpool
1262126112601259 rose to oppose all the measures before the House. When he recollected the discussions and decisions that had taken place in 1812 and 1813 on the same subject as that now under consideration, he could not for a moment doubt what would now be the determination of their lordships on this question. The noble earl had laboured to show that the bills on the table were very different from the measure formerly proposed, but he saw no reason for so considering them. Indeed, the only ground on which their lordships were called to agree to these bills; the only information they had before them whereby to form an opinion—namely, the report of the other House of parliament—sat out with declaring, that the subject was by no means new; that the measures proposed were entirely the same as those of 1812 and 1813. The noble earl had stated, that these offices were such as ought not to be applied to the reward of political services; but this was not the noble earl's opinion on the former discussions, and he should be glad to know how these offices, which the noble earl held to be perfectly fit, as political
1262126112601259The Earl of Lauderdale
"Spreads undivided, operates unspent.""Lives thro' all life, extends thro' all extent,l said, that the question had been frequently discussed, both on principle and in detail; but at present the House was not prepared to enter minutely into the particulars of the measure. He rejoiced that the bill now came forward under more favourable auspices; not indeed that any praise was due to ministers, or to himself and those who had persevered in calling the attention of parliament to the subject; the credit belonged to the nation, who, with one voice, now claimed that sinecures should be abolished. The House was not indebted for the measure to popular clamour, which one noble lord had censured, but to the good sense of the country, expressed in every petition laid upon the table for a redress of grievances. He objected to the clause of compensation, which he saw in the bill before the House. The pension list at present amounted to 230,000"Spreads undivided, operates unspent.""Lives thro' all life, extends thro' all extent,lEarl Grosvenor
1265 said, that if the noble earl supposed that the present bill was at all like that of 1812 and 1813, he was most egregiously mistaken,—there was
1265The Lord Chancellor
1266 was sorry he could not concur in the principle of the bill. He considered sinecures as a means vested in
1266Lord Arden
1263 could not agree with the inference of the noble earl, that because his noble friend had voted against the abolitions proposed in 1812, he ought to vote against those now under consideration. In the present case, the measure had assumed a very different shape: formerly, all that was to be done was proposed in one bill; now, the measures were brought distinctly forward, and could be considered separately. The nature of the compensation was also different. The noble earl had stated, that the reason why sir Robert Walpole had no wars was because the influence of the Crown was in his time great and that the reason there had been
1263The Earl of Harrowby
, in reply to the objection that this bill went to take offices out of the gift of the Crown, observed, that it was unconstitutional to suppose that the Crown would dispose of any office without an accompanying responsibility; but the offices of auditor of the Exchequer and clerk of the pells were not in the gift of the Crown, but in that of the Treasury. As to the objection, that pensions, being a matter of right, would call for no gratitude from the objects of such bounty, this might have been so under the former bill; but at present the number of pensions being limited, the Crown would exercise a selection, and the objects of such selection must always be beholden for the preference.Earl Bathurst
1264 saw nothing in this new measure to induce him to alter the opinion he had formerly expressed on the subject of sinecures: he thought the principle destructive even of a part of the constitution, and rendered the king the only person in his realm who was incapable of conferring a personal favour. The principal objection urged in 1812 and 1813 was, that the House was not sufficiently informed upon the question; that objection had prevailed; and what new lights had since been procured to lead to any other conclusion? With regard to sinecures, he admitted, that the important duties formerly connected with the offices had not of late years been executed, but at any future period the individuals holding those places might be called upon to fulfil them. Some of them had high judicial functions annexed to them; and would the House consent that they should be assigned over, on the sudden, and without investigation, to the department of the woods and forests, which itself had been much misrepresented? Never had a more unjust cry been raised against any thing than against the forest-laws of this country, which were peculiarly favourable to liberty, when rightly understood. The office of chief-justice in eyre fell under the same consideration as other places mentioned with it. One of the principal provisions
1264Lord Redesdale
 warned the House against the augmenting power and weight in the balance of the constitution which the other House of parliament was acquiring, and which was exemplified by the fact, that it had the power of removing any minister the Crown thought I fit to appoint. Above all, their lordships ought to take care that it did not improperly yield, because the other House, session after session, besieged it with the same bills, or at least with bills having the same principle. It was necessary first to inquire who made the demand that sine-cures should be abolished, and next, what was the precise nature and object of that demand? If both these were examined, it would be found that there was no pretence for the measure now submitted. There was a wide difference between complying with the wishes of the people in reasonable matters, and suddenly consenting to such an alteration of the fixed constitution as deprived the king of a power he had hitherto at all times possessed. He called the attention of the House to the distinction between mere pensions, and offices of high dignity for the reward of distinguished services; and compared the latter to architectural ornaments, which, while they increased the beauty, in fact also added to the strength and solidity of the edifice. He argued that, if sinecures were abolished the people would not in fact be gainers, as the fees of the offices would not be diminished. Considering the power the House of Commons possessed, it was necessary that the Crown should possess a certain degree of influence and weight among the leading individuals of the realm.Lord Erskine
 said, that before their lordships proceeded farther, it would be proper to take the opinion of the Judges on the following question:—Whether, if the court of Common Pleas had adjudged that a person should be committed for a contempt, and the warrant stated that adjudication generally without setting forth the particular circumstances, and the case had been brought before the court of King's-bench by Habeas Corpus, and the return stated the warrant of commitment for contempt, whether, in such a case, the court of King's-bench would liberate the prisoner on the ground that the particular circumstances were not set forth in the warrant.The Lord Chancellor
 then observed, that this was an important but not a difficult case. If he had thought it difficult, or had any doubt about it, he would have been anxious to hear the counsel for the defendants: but being clearly of opinion that the House of Commons had the power of committing for contempt—that this was a commitment for contempt— that the contempt, if that was necessary, was sufficiently set forth in the warrant— and that the objections in point of form had not been sustained; unless any other noble lord stated it to be his wish to hear the council for the defendants, he would move that the Judgment of the Court below be affirmed.The Lord Chancellor
13021301 said, that as he concurred in the motion, it would have been quite unnecessary in almost any other case, to add any thing to the formal proposition of affirmance, by his noble friend who presided in the House; but from what had formerly passed when the imprisonment of the plaintiff in error took place, he felt it incumbent upon him to say a very few words. At that time, it was an opinion expressed by persons of great weight in the House of Commons, and it was generally thought to have been its settled intention, not to permit any action to be proceeded in so as to have its privileges at all questioned or canvassed in a court of law, and that imprisonment would attach upon all who should issue process, or countenance it in judgment. Having felt the utmost alarm at a proposition so dangerous to the liberty of the subject. He had expressed himself on that occasion with more warmth than was thought right by some whose opinions he valued most highly; but, for his own part, he repented of none of it, and under the same circumstances would repeat it again, and stand by every word of it. No man could respect or uphold more than he did the high privileges of that House, so essentially necessary for the security of public liberty, and whilst the Commons were advancing amidst many obstacles to its just station in the constitution, now so happily and securely attained, it was no wonder that they were jealous of their privileges which often led them into excesses unnecessary for their preservation, and inconsistent with the security of our legal constitution, as they had imprisoned persons for only appealing to the laws of their country for their deliverance. He could not, therefore, help expressing his heartfelt satisfaction at the course which, in the present instance, had been pursued. The speaker, though standing perhaps in a situation which might have differed in argument from that of inferior persons, (though upon that he should give no opinion), had put in his plea like the most private man. He had not objected to the jurisdiction of the court of King's-bench, but had put himself upon the country for the fact, and pleaded his justification to the judges of the law; so that if the court had decided against him, he must have been bound by the judgment, and the House of Commons also, which had authorized that proceeding. This was no waver of privilege, but an act which gave it double security and
13021301Lord Erskine
1366 could not allow the occasion to pass without saying, that no examination had ever been conducted with more candour and liberality, or with a stronger disposition to attend to every view in which the subject could be represented. It would certainly be improper at present to propose any measure founded on that report. It would be necessary to investigate this important subject much more fully and extensively, before their lordships could venture to come to any
1366The Earl of Liverpool
 expressed his assent to the address of the noble lord. He never entertained but one opinion respecting the making the abolition effectual—that it was necessary that the measure should not only be adopted by Great Britain, but acceded to by all other nations. Much, however, still remained to be done, to induce the powers who still continued the trade to agree to its abolition. There was one consolation, however, in the consideration of this question—that whatever evasions existed, as applicable to the flag of other countries, there was no imputation whatever of any abuses having been practised under the British flag. Prudential considerations prevented him from entering into any detail of the steps which had been taken by his majesty's government with a view to the accomplishing the abolition of the slave trade. There were still negociations in progress of an important nature, which, he hoped, might still be brought to a satisfactory issue. And unless some unforeseen circumstances occurred, he was in the full expectation that it would be in the power of the executive to make in the beginning of the next session, a communication to parliament of the result of their negociations.The Earl of Liverpool
1370viva voce1369, in rising to move the third reading of this bill, observed, that it was a measure of very great importance. The subject was one that had undergone the most serious consideration. In another place, a committee had been appointed to inquire into it, and they had recommended, that some alteration should be made in the grand jury system
1370viva voce1369The Earl of Liverpool
1371l said, that the bill would operate a great change in the system under which grand juries at present acted in Ireland. He was absolutely astonished, when he found that the bill was the result of three years' deliberation in another place. The bill proceeded on the principle of alteration only—of alteration, without any commensurate benefit. If the sheriffs appointed good grand juries in Ireland, no alteration whatever would be necessary. The public money was, however, squandered away for private purposes. The county member, by his influence, frequently appointed the sheriff, who nominated the grand jury, and thus one-half of the county was frequently fleeced for the benefit of the other. If measures were taken to give Ireland disinterested grand juries for one year, and at the expiration of the period, complaints still existed, then the noble lord might say, "We have done every thing possible for the amelioration of this system. There is, however, something radically bad in it, and it is necessary to take away from Irish grand juries the right of applying money." The only reason he could perceive for the present measure was this—that the more money the grand juries appropriated to the making of roads and the raising of bridges in Ireland, the less could she contribute, in taxation, towards the expenses of this country; therefore, it was, perhaps, deemed necessary to abrogate this power as far as possible. The present bill gave to government a patronage of 15,9001371lThe Earl of Donoughmore
1372 said, the bill was introduced for the purpose of abolishing a system of consummate plunder, which had been acted on Ireland for a scries of years, and which chiefly afflicted the lowest part of the population. The higher classes contrived to withdraw their own shoulders from the burthen, and to place it on those of their poor neighbours. The noble earl had made an attack on government, who, he argued, wished by this bill to secure the privilege of plundering the people—of appropriating the money intended for roads and bridges, to other purposes. The provisions of the bill did not bear out this assertion. They did, indeed, deprive grand juries of the power of jobbing, and of expending the public money for private purposes; but they did no more. This very power was one of the greatest grievances Ireland laboured under, and it was time it should be removed. The money swallowed up by presentments was little short of a million a-year, while the general revenue of the country did not much exceed four. By whom was this power exercised? By grand juries, appointed by the sheriff, who were anxious
1372The Earl of Limerick
 defended the conduct of grand juries in the northern counties of Ireland, and observed, with respect to the expense of public works, that it was compulsory on grand juries to present for roads in Ireland. He was hostile to the general principle of this bill. If it were enacted, repairs would take place only during the summer assizes, and not when they might become necessary.The Earl of Caledon
 objected to the bill, which he thought unnecessary or injurious.The Earl of Blessington
1373 rose to support the bill, from a conviction of the importance and difficulty of dispensing the large sums of money which were to be disposed of by the grand juries of Ireland. The various duties of the grand juries of Ireland had so much increased of late, that it was impossible for them to discharge them to advantage. The public works had risen to such a height, and the amount of money to be expended had so much increased, that it was high time to impose some check on those who had the disposal of it. The restraints imposed by the bill were not probably the best that could be imposed; they were possibly of a nature which threw too large a patronage into the hands of the Crown; but precautions were also taken to obviate in some degree this inconvenience, and the restraints, if not thus applied, might be sought for in vain in other quarters. By a bill which had been passed in the last session, and which had been introduced by an hon. and learned friend of his (Mr. Horner), whose memory he should ever revere, as he had admired his talents and respected his private virtues and eminent public qualities—by that bill the business of grand juries in Ireland had been materially increased by compelling them to examine viva voce evidence. The consequence of this increase of business was, to disable the grand juries from investigating
1373The Marquis of Lansdowne
 presented a Report from the committee on the Poor Laws. It could hardly have been expected that the committee, during the short period that elapsed since its appointment, could have fully examined the subject, or have collected so much information as to enable it to give any decided opinion as to what ought to be done: but he was not sorry that such a committee had been appointed, because it had at least collected some information well worthy of their lordships attention. It was not his intention to enter into the particulars of the report; but if any measure were adopted, founded upon the subject of the report, he trusted it would come from the executive government; ministers having, from their situations, much better opportunities of forming a correct judgment as to the proper course to be pursued than other persons enjoyed.The Earl of Hardwicke
13681367 said, he had to call the attention of their lordships to a subject of as much importance as any that under any circumstances could come before them. He disapproved of the practice of introducing measures of importance at a late period of the session, but the case to which he was about to advert was an exception, as the proper course undoubtedly was, to wait until nearly the end of the session, in order to ascertain what had been done by his majesty's ministers, in order to obtain the total abolition of the African slave trade. It had been stated some years ago, that our abolition would do nothing, unless other powers could be induced to join in it. But even with the knowledge that not one human being the less would be torn from the coast of Africa, that one drop of human blood the less would be shed, still he would have pressed the abolition on our part, that we might be exonerated from the guilt of this detestable traffic; if other powers chose to continue it, upon their heads be the blood, we should be free from the stain.—Much had, however, happily been done to induce other powers to join in the abolition of this odious traffic. France and Portugal had been induced to abolish it, and this had undoubtedly been a great gain to the cause of humanity. They should recollect, however, that if they did little, very little would be done; that if they were feeble in their exertions, trifling would be the result; it was only by perseverance they could gain the advantage they looked to, and which, for the sake of humanity, he trusted would ultimately be obtained. It was also too true, that this abominable traffic was now carried on to a very great extent, as appeared by documents that had been handed to him; that it was carried on under the flags and by the subjects of Portugal, of France (in one instance under the Dutch flag), and of
13681367Lord Grenville
14481447 addressed the Prince Regent as follows:—14481447The Speaker
