 Lord Castlereagh  said, it certainly was
 19
 Lord Cochrane  wished to know whether or not the Lords of the Admiralty had come to the resolution of appropriating any part of the Droits of the Admiralty towards the relief of those distressed seamen, whose wretched state gave such pain to every person of any feeling.
 Lord Cochrane  said, if a proportion of the Droits was not applied towards the relief of the persons in question, he would take an early day of bringing forward a motion on the subject.
 Lord Folkestone  said:—Unwilling as I am, at all times, to offer myself to the notice of the House, and feeling that unwillingness, in a peculiar degree at present, when symptoms of weariness begin to be manifested at the protraction of the debate; yet I think it my duty, reprobating, as I do, the conduct of his majesty's ministers during the recess, not to be perfectly silent on this occasion. With respect to the trials, noticed by those who preceded me, I shall say very little. Of those which took place in Scotland I shall say nothing whatever. But, with reference to the other trials, I shall merely say, that if any person who heard the statement of my hon. and learned friend, and the answer attempted to be given to it, did not feel convinced that the facts adduced by him stood uncontradicted, I think he must either not have attended to that statement, or his mind must be wilfully opposed to conviction. The hon. and learned gentleman opposite met the statement of my hon. and learned friend, with respect to the trials at Manchester, by saying, that the persons set at liberty were not those who had been taken up on the charge of conspiring to burn that town. My hon. and learned friend believes, and I also believe, that they were the identical persons. On what authority have we come to that conclusion? On the authority of the Report of the Select
 * 47 48 49 50 * * 51
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that if this was the only occasion on which many of the subjects touched upon during the present discussion could be debated, he might feel himself called upon to say something in answer to what had fallen from the noble lord and the hon. and learned gentleman opposite. But as numerous occasions would arise when those topics would come naturally before the House, and the examination of them be fully entered upon, it was not his intention to take up the time of the House in the discussion of any of the questions at this time. In saying this, nothing was farther from his thoughts than to complain of any hon. gentleman who had so far taken a part in the present debate as to express their deep feeling of that awful calamity which the whole nation deplored. He would be sorry to think there was any member in the House who
 52 53 54
 Mr. Bennet  expressed his entire concurrence with the noble lord behind him, as to the conduct of his majesty's ministers; for he could assure the House, he was prepared to prove, upon the proper occasion, that notwithstanding those confident assertions by which ministers contrived to persuade some gentlemen to agree to their measures of restriction upon the liberty of the subject, the greater part, if not the whole, of the disaffection which formed the ground work of their proposition, was created by emissaries employed and paid by ministers themselves. [Hear, hear!]
 The Attorney General  said, he had not intended to trouble the House on the question before them, but he might be excused if he made some observations on that part of the noble lord's speech which referred to the prosecutions that had recently taken place. He was not sure that he had rightly understood the objection made by the noble lord to the proceedings against Mr. Hone; he was not sure whether he objected to the prosecution of the parodies altogether, or whether his objection was founded on the circumstance of Mr. Hone having been tried three times. Those who thought the parodies were altogether innoxious, and such things as were proper to be circulated, must of course disapprove of the publisher of them being put three times on his trial; but in his humble opinion, if any one of them was a fit subject for prosecution, unless a marked distinction could be made between that and the others, he should have failed in his duty
 31
 The Attorney General  stated it to have been the subject of serious consideration with him, whether, after the first verdict, it would be proper to go on, or to abandon the prosecutions, and the result was, a conviction in his own mind, that by giving them up he should be guilty of a gross dereliction of his duty to the public. Unless he had felt satisfied, from what came out on the first trial, that the publications were not what he had previously conceived them to be, and that he was mistaken in the informations which he had put upon the record, it was his bounden duty to proceed with the other two. And he now begged to say, that notwithstanding the verdict given by the jury—(he was always sorry to say any thing of verdicts given in a court of justice)—he had not been convinced, but far from it, that Mr. Hone was not guilty of a libel in the second publication, though he had been acquitted on the first. Though all the libels were of the same character, they were on different parts of the service of the Church of England, and were therefore fit subjects of distinct prosecutions. His mind had not been at all convinced, though by the law of England the jury had the right,—and God forbid they should not have it,—of deciding on the guilt or innocence of the party accused;—yet still he had not been convinced that the publications in question were not what they had been charged to be. On such matters every man was entitled to exercise his own judgment. Had he felt that he had been in error when he first proceeded against them—had the first trial produced this conviction on his mind, he should have felt it his bounden duty to stay the proceedings; but in the absence of such conviction, ought he to have abstained from proceeding with the second prosecution, because the first had failed? Was such the principle on which the administration of the justice of the country ought to rest? If it could be shown by the noble lord that he had persevered in the prosecution from malice, or from a spirit of revenge, then he might make out a charge against him; but if this were not made out or stated, he would say that his conduct had not been improper, and that to have withdrawn from the prosecution of two of the parodies after a verdict of acquittal had been pronounced on the first, would have been taken for a
 33
 The Solicitor General,  on an occasion when, according to the noble lord and the hon. and learned gentleman, unanimity was so very desirable as it was on this, he was surprised that such speeches should be made as had just been heard, and that this should be stated to be the only opportunity that would offer for discussing those topics which they had touched upon, when already a notice was on their table which would bring them regularly before the House, and when neither the Speech of the Prince Regent nor the speeches of the mover and seconder of the Address could have led any one to anticipate such a debate. The hon. and learned gentleman had asserted facts to have transpired since the separation of parliament, which had proved that there were not good grounds for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act. His statement of the proceedings which had taken place at Manchester (his hon. and learned friend must excuse him) was not fair. He had assumed that the persons lately discharged on their recognizances, were the identical persons whom the reports of the Houses of Parliament last session charged with being engaged in a conspiracy to burn Manchester. He had thought proper to confound those persons who had been brought up to be tried for misdemeanors with those who were accused of high treason. He must know that those who had been arraigned, and against whom no evidence had been
 42 43 44
 The Solicitor General  observed, that still it was an offence, and the court had visited it with punishment in the person of the printer.  Ex concessis 45
 The Lord Advocate  of Scotland said:—I beg leave, one the present occasion, to make a few observations, having been Particularly alluded to by my hon. and earned friend opposite. I do not now mean to go into a review of the circumstances connected with the subject which he has introduced to the House; but, when the motion of which a noble lord has given notice is brought forward, I shall be prepared to show, that the charges insinuated by my hon. and learned friend are wholly unfounded. I will show, that the imputation of ignorance, in drawing up the indictment, is completely fallacious; and, from the issue of the trial—from the address of the judge to the prisoner, on his being dismissed from the bar, when the jury had returned a verdict, well known in the law of Scotland, as distinguished from a verdict of "not guilty"— I mean a verdict of "not proven"—I will substantiate the fact, that the oath to which I referred was taken by certain persons engaged in a traitorous conspiracy at Glasgow. With respect to another allegation, of far more importance, namely, that I acted corruptly, or that I suffered corrupt practices to be resorted to, for the purpose of influencing evidence, instead of the statement of my hon. and learned friend being correct, I shall be able to prove, that, so far from any thing corrupt laving been done by me, or any other servant of the crown, on the occasion adverted to, we, in fact, did nothing, but what we could not have omitted doing, without being guilty of a gross dereliction of duty.
 Lord Castlereagh  rose to explain, and observed, that the hon. and learned gentleman was mistaken if he supposed that it was intended by ministers to propose the constitution of any committee, different in character from those which had taken place last session upon the subject alluded to.
 Lord Cochrane  thought the Address extremely unsatisfactory, inasmuch as it held out no promise of economy or retrenchment. How different was this composition from the Speech of the American president, which had lately appeared in the public Journals. In that speech, from the chief ruler of a nation which our ministers threatened and sought to destroy in the late war, there was a distinct recital of evidence to prove its general improvement. In the Speech before the House there was no doubt a confident assertion of national prosperity, but no specific instance of that prosperity was alluded to. The reason was obvious; for no specific instance could be cited. That, indeed, was impossible amidst the misery that universally prevailed, while the revenue was notoriously deficient, while the work-houses were crowded with paupers, while the streets were thronged with Starving seamen, and the poor-rates advanced beyond any former precedent. If any evidence were adduced to establish the fact, that the country was in that state of prosperity which this Speech
 56
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  said, that notwithstanding the confident tone in which the learned lord had spoken, he was prepared to bring before the House such a case as would justify the strong epithets which had been applied to the transactions in Scotland. The learned lord said, he would be able to substantiate what he had last year stated to the House respecting the conspiracies and the oath. He
 46
 Lord A. Hamilton  wished to take the earliest opportunity of calling the attention of the House to the late state prosecutions in Scotland. He gave notice that he would on that day fortnight submit a motion on the subject. As he did not wish, however, to bring the subject before the House in the absence of the Lord Advocate, he would, if any such wish was expressed, postpone his motion to a day more convenient to that gentleman.
 Mr. Arbuthnot  said, the noble lord would probably hear something in the course of the evening which might have the effect of inducing him to forego his motion—Shortly after,
 Mr. Wodehouse  said, that in moving the Address which the House usually voted to the throne at the opening of the session, he should ill discharge his duty, if he did not avail himself of the earliest opportunity of calling their attention to the deep distress in which a recent calamitous event had plunged his Royal Highness. We had lived so many years in a state of war, and our attention had been so much occupied by the succession of wonderful events to which that state had given rise, that our minds seemed, in some sort, diverted from the consideration of our own domestic affairs. The first event after the return of peace, in our domestic history, which was viewed with deep interest by the whole nation, was the virtuous al-
 20 ‡ 21 22 23
 Mr. Brougham  could not but express his regret at having been mistaken as to the intention of the noble lord with respect to the mode of the promised inquiry. He still anxiously hoped he had not so far mistaken the noble lord, as that the inquiry would turn out to be merely an examination of documents prepared by government and sent down to the House in a green bag. If that was to be all, it would be a mere mockery.
 Mr. Brougham  did not wish to protract the debate, but he could not refrain from saying a few words, though without any view to disturb the unanimity of the House. That part of the Address which stated the sorrow of the House for the great and irreparable calamity which the nation had sustained, met with his most hearty concurrence. The very mention of such a subject was a sufficient reason for excluding any other topics which might tend to disturb that unanimity which was so desirable on such an occasion; but if any thing were wanting to confirm that unanimity, it might safely be presumed the speech of the noble lord who had but just sat down, must have had that effect. For it appeared that the points on which it was most likely that a difference of opinion would arise—namely, the transactions which had taken place since the last report of the secret committee, were, at a very early period, to come under discussion. And he gathered from the speech of the noble lord this most gratifying conclusion—that it was at length the intention of his majesty's government to produce evidence as to the state of the nation before a committee of the House, before which also witnesses might be called and examined; so that in the course of the examinations which would then take place, they would hear, on the one hand the evidence on which ministers had acted, and, on the other hand, they would hear that evidence on which his hon. friend who spoke last, undertook to prove that the representations of government were incorrect. Until this inquiry took place, it would be premature to enter into any farther discussion of the subject. As to the state of the country, and the measures which had been adopted, his opinions remained un-
 55
 Mr. W. Dundas  said, he was not instructed to make any communication on the subject alluded to by the noble lord.
 Mr. Wyndham Quin  addressed the House to the following purport: — 24 25 26 l. 27 28
 Sir S. Romilly  said, it was the opinion of the court of King's-bench.
 Sir Samuel Romilly  said, he agreed with every syllable of the address as far as he could understand it from hearing it read, and declared that he should be extremely sorry to say any thing that would interrupt the harmony of the House. There was one subject which should cause harmony to prevail on the present occasion, if any cause could have that effect. If ever there was an event of distress and calamity, it was that on which they had now to offer their condolence to the throne, the loss of the illustrious Princess who had engrossed the affections and engaged the hopes of the nation. But it was the privilege of members to introduce on that occasion matters which had happened during the recess, and especially if they proceeded from measures sanctioned by themselves; therefore the noble lord was perfectly in order, when he animadverted on the late trials, not so much as insulated events, but because they might be considered as part of the system of government now exercised. They threw great light on the extraordinary act which deprived us of the more valuable part of our constitution. Parliament was now called together under a public calamity; for what else was it to be called together under the suspension of the best parts of the constitution? He would not now say any thing of the promise of the immediate repeal of that measure. He only adverted to occurrences which threw light on the grounds on which the suspension was passed. These was no irregularity at this time in referring to that important transaction of the last session, the suspension of the
 34 certiorari 35 36 37 38 39 40 41
 Lord Althorp  said, what he objected to was the conduct of the attorney-general
 32
 Lord Althorp  said:—Mr. Speaker; Extremely sorry should I be, when we are called upon to offer our condolence to the throne on the melancholy event which has lately afflicted the country, that any observation should escape from my lips, which might be in the least degree calculated to produce a difference of opinion as to the propriety of the Address moved, or disturb the unanimity which so happily pervades the House; nor shall I follow in detail the speeches of the hon. mover and seconder of that Address, farther than to protest against the inference they have attempted to draw, that the present improved condition of commerce, and the tranquil state of the country, are to be attributed to the measures pursued in the last session by his majesty's ministers. This is an opinion in which I, and probably many others, can by no means coincide; but as there will be many other opportunities for discussing this subject, I shall refrain from entering on it at present. I am, however, anxious to draw the attention of the House to a subject not forming any part of the topics embraced by the preceding speakers, yet necessarily connected with them, upon which I must premise it is not my intention to ground any specific motion. In fact, this is the only occasion when we are privileged to allude to particular grievances on the part of individuals, or make a complaint on behalf of our constituents generally, without intending to move a resolution or motion in form upon the subject of such grievance or complaint. Such has been heretofore the practice upon the reading of his majesty's speech at the commencement of the session, and I shall avail myself of it to make a few observations upon the late prosecutions instituted against a person named Hone, for libels. It is a subject of great delicacy, because the professed cause of those prosecutions, the parodies on sacred subjects, no man can justify. Let none suppose that in calling the attention of the House to the subject, I do not feel the extreme impropriety and danger of such publications. I strongly
 29 ex officio. 30
 Lord Althorp , seeing lord Castlereagh in his place, wished to know from him whether or not he intended to move the immediate repeal of the Habeas Corpus Suspension act, because, if this was not his intention, he should himself submit a motion to the House on the subject.
 Lord Althorp  wished to occupy the attention of the House a few moments on the subject of the Habeas Corpus Suspension act. He thought it was of the utmost importance to the character of the House that the earliest opportunity should be taken of repealing that act. As it was necessary to give previous notice of any motion of importance, he did not consider himself warranted in then moving for leave to bring in a bill for the repeal of this odious measure; but he gave this notice, that to-morrow he would submit a motion to the House for leave to bring in such a bill.
 The Lord Advocate  of Scotland, having learned that a noble lord had yesterday fixed his motion on the subject of the state prosecutions in Scotland for that day fortnight: but had expressed, at the same time, a wish to consult, as much as possible, his (the lord advocate's) personal convenience, by naming any other day that might be more suitable to him, he now informed that noble lord, that as far as his personal convenience was concerned, he would not call on him to alter his notice; but the noble lord must be aware, that the absence of an individual in the situation which he filled, for any length of time, must be attended with great inconvenience to others, as well as to himself. The courts in Scotland were all sitting at this time, and in the court of exchequer the presence of the king's advocate was more particularly necessary. He was quite anxious and ready to go immediately into the question. If the noble lord could bring it on in the beginning of next week he should be ready—or indeed any day during the week; but if the noble lord could not bring his motion on next week, he hoped it would be postponed till after the rising of the Scotch courts.
 Lord Castlereagh  thanked the hon. member for calling the attention of ministers to this subject. He did not conceive, however, that the introduction of it was necessary in the Speech from the throne. From the zeal with which parliament had taken up the question in the last session, ministers thought it would be improper to interfere with it, until the legislature had brought the business to a satisfactory conclusion. He was of opinion, that the subject ought to be taken up on its own merits, and not as a government question; but ministers would feel it their bounden duty to use their utmost exertions, in order to bring the matter to a satisfactory result. A right hon. friend of his (Mr. S. Bourne), who filled the situation of chairman of the committee on the poor laws, intended to move the revival of that committee; and he hoped they would not abandon the subject, until they had effected every practical good that could fairly be desired.
 Lord Castlereagh  presented, by the command of the Prince Regent, the Treaty with Spain, of which the following is a Copy:
 Lord Castlereagh  then said:—I rise, in pursuance of the notice I gave last night,
 86 87
 The Speaker —There is no precedent, as far as I know, of any message of condolence being carried beyond the crown. The care on when the noble lord seems to have founded the present motion is, the address of congratulation, which, some few months ago, was voted to prince Leopold and the queen; and though there is no direct precedent, the noble lord has put it to the House, whether it will not be proper, on this occasion, to make a precedent.
 Mr. Calcraft  said, he rose to discharge a painful duty, but he felt that he should be wanting to himself and to those whom he represented, if he did not give his negative to this motion. He should best discharge his duty by assigning no reason for the course which he felt it necessary to take on the present occasion. He had that within him which convinced him that he should not otherwise be discharging his duty; but it was a duty he was discharging at the expense of his own feelings. He trusted the House would not expect him to enter more at large into the subject.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, the manner in which the hon. gentleman had given his negative without adducing any reason for it, precluded him from making any observations. He could only guess at the motives which governed his conduct. But if he surmised the reasons of the hon. member correctly, he could say that there was not the slightest colour or foundation for them.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  said, he would follow the example of his hon. friend, and without stating his reasons, oppose the motion.
 Lord Castlereagh  then moved, "That a message be sent to condole with his serene highness prince Leopold George Frederick, duke of Saxe, margrave of Meissen, landgrave of Thuringuen, prince of Gobourg of Saalfield, in the calamitous and untimely death of his illustrious consort her royal highness the princess Charlotte Augusta."
 Mr. Brougham  was convinced, that on this motion there would not be a dissenting voice. The whole country, without exception, sympathised in the sorrows of this illustrious personage, who had endeared himself to all classes of the community.
 Mr. Calcraft  heartily concurred in the motion, which must be perfectly agreeable to the House and the country.
 Sir F. Burdett  rose, and said he had some petitions to present in favour of parliamentary reform. He did not know what effect they would have on the proposal which was in agitation to repeal the act which was commonly called the act for suspending the Habeas Corpus. Whatever was done would not alter his opinion respecting that act, and the cruel and atrocious proceedings of the ministers under it, who had used it, perhaps, for the purpose for which it was intended—to put a stop to the great question of parliamentary reform, in favour of which petitions had been presented signed by a million and a half of persons, though many of them had been rejected on the pretence of some defect in form, or because the meaning of the petitioners was presented in printed, and not in written words. He did not much care whether the Habeas Corpus act was revived, whether it remained suspended, or whether it was obliterated from the statute book, since it was reduced to this condition, that it might be suspended whenever the ministers thought proper, or on any pretences which they thought proper to allege. It would be, perhaps, better that it should be obliterated from the Statute Book, for this reason—that the ministers now concealed the real import of their measures under the name of a suspension of the statute of Habeas Corpus; whereas, if it were altogether repealed, the people would be left to the protection of Magna Charta, under which they had the same right to personal protection: the statute of Habeas Corpus affording only a more summary remedy to persons aggrieved. The great body of the people of England who had demanded parliamentary  reform, l 90
 Lord A Hamilton  said, the learned lord had placed him in rather an awkward predicament, It must be manifest to the House that this was not a question between himself and the learned lord. He was willing to postpone the question to
 66
 Mr. Wodehouse  brought up the report of the Address. On the motion, that it be agreed to,
 Mr. Curwen  rose to inquire of the noble lord opposite, whether it was the intention of his majesty's government to bring forward any motion for the amendment of the poor laws in the present session? There was not a subject of more vital importance—no measure could tend more to produce that prosperity which he wished to see spread over the face of the country, than a wise revision and alteration of the poor laws. He was surprised that it had not been men-tinned in the speech from the throne; and certainly, if it had not been for the melancholy topic contained in that Speech, which filled all ranks of the people with regret, he would have made some remarks on the omission. He conceived that government ought to bring forward a measure on the subject; for so great a difference existed as to the plan which ought to be adopted, that he despaired of seeing any measure connected with the poor laws carried into effect, unless it originated with ministers, and was supported by their influence.
 Mr. Curwen  said:—Deference to the feelings of the House induced me to refrain from making any observations on the Speech from the throne on a former night. The premature death of her royal highness the Princess Charlotte, whose early career was marked with such splendid virtues, has been felt by all ranks and classes as a great national misfortune. If it were possible to impute a want of respect to her memory by any thing I may now feel it my duty to offer on other parts of the address, I should be silent. Painful as it is to combat statements, which it must be the wish of all were well-founded, I cannot be a party to the exaggerated representations of the nourishing and prosperous state of the country and its finances.
 82 83 l l s. 84 85
 Mr. Lockhart  said, there was sufficient evidence before the House, to show that the state of the bankrupt laws was extremely defective. He quoted a sentence of the lord chancellor to prove that, in the present state of those laws, there was no distinction made between the moral and the immoral bankrupt, and that, in fact, he could not make any difference between those who had been honest, but unfortunate, and those who had profusely squandered the money of their creditors previously to the act of bankruptcy. He thought there should be a greater power in some tribunal to inquire into the previous conduct of the bankrupt. This power, he conceived, would be best vested in the commissioners of bankrupts. He hoped the committee would report as early as possible, as it was a subject connected with the best interests of the country.
 Mr. John Smith  moved, "That a select committee be appointed to consider of the Bankrupt Laws, and of the operation thereof."
 The Speaker  observed, that it was extremely unusual to accelerate a motion of which notice had been given, by fixing afterwards an earlier day. Such a mode of proceeding was not consistent with the practice of the House, and would be attended with great inconvenience.
 Lord Milton  said, there was one part of the Speech from the throne, which he had heard with the most unfeigned satisfaction; he alluded to the recommendation to erect a greater number of places of public worship. No person could reside even for a short time in the metropolis, without witnessing the lamentable deficiency of churches. Before an application was made to the public purse for the sum requisite for the erection of additional churches, it might be proper to inquire into the state of the property of the church, to see whether means might not be devised for making some part of it available for such a purpose. He did not mean to say, however, that if it should be found, on inquiry, there was no church property that could be made applicable, he would not consent to any additional burdens for that purpose. There was one point which ought to be particularly attended to in the erection of the churches. The greatest attention ought to be paid to the accommodation of the lower orders. There was hardly a parish church in the kingdom, in which I great encroachments had not been made by persons of wealth on that part of the church which was the property of the population of the parish. They ought to guard as much as possible against the recurrence of what he considered a very great evil—the enclosure of pews from the body of the church. He had thrown out these few hints, being deeply impressed with the importance of the subject.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that it would perhaps be more convenient for both parties to reserve any observations which they might wish to make on any subject connected with the suspension of the Habeas Corpus to a future day. On Monday next a communication would be made to the House of certain papers calculated to throw light on the state of the country. He trusted that whatever differences of opinion they might have with respect to the necessity for the suspension, or the manner in which the powers given to ministers were exercised, there could be but one opinion among them respecting the propriety of passing the present bill through the House with as little delay as possible. It was his intention therefore to propose that the House should depart from their usual practice, and pass the bill through all its stages that day. He concluded with moving that the bill be read a first time.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was first intended to lay before the House certain papers calculated to throw light on the state of the country: the appointment of a committee was afterwards to be proposed.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, on Monday a day would be named on which the papers then laid before the
 92
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he believed it would be chosen by ballot.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the papers would be laid before the House on Monday, and the committee would not be proposed till a future day.
 Lord Folkestone  said, he could have no objection to a bill so very desirable as the one now before the House. At the same time, he could not help expressing his surprise, that though he had come down to the House that night before the usual time for entering on public business, this business had been gone into some time before he came. He knew some other members who would have been happy to have given their assent to this bill, but who were thus precluded from an opportunity of doing so. It seemed as if ministers were afraid of opposition or dreaded discussion; at all events, their conduct on this occasion was very unfair towards the House. His reason for then rising was, that he considered this measure was not sufficient—it was not all that the case required. If they confined themselves to a bare repeal, those persons who had been arrested and detained under the suspension act, and discharged on their recognizances, might still be harassed and exposed to a great deal of suffering. Something was due to these persons, and the bill ought therefore to be more than a repeal. As far as he was able to learn, and he had taken every opportunity of examining into the subject, it appeared to him that all those persons taken up under the suspension act who had been discharged on their recognizances, were unfairly dealt with. There was no law authorizing magistrates to demand such
 93
 The Attorney General  said:—The question now before the House appears to me rather a question of law, adapted for the consideration of a court of justice, than an argument for or against passing the bill. The cases of these individuals were such, that although nothing sufficiently strong, so as to affect them with the crime of high treason, could be substantiated on oath against them, still enough came out to warrant the magistrates in binding them over to keep the peace, and appear at a certain day if called upon. It is by no means a practice unusual in accusations of felony or misdemeanor, and rests in the breast of the magistrate as he shall deem it fit. What is a discharge upon a man's own recognizance, but a security given by the accused himself, instead of one given by himself jointly with two good securities? The recognizance, so far, has the appearance of an indulgence granted, rather than an injury inflicted. If the recognizance under these circumstances be illegal, the party may apply to the court of King's-bench, and it will relieve them. If the noble lord asks for my legal opinion upon this head, I think I may safely admit, that the act which empowered the secretary of state or the magistrates, to commit, also empowers them to liberate upon taking a recognizance. That the secretary of
 § 94
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that the moment this bill had passed, that moment, the suspension and its consequences were removed. The suspension and the compelling the parties to enter into the recognizances, were transactions, neither involved in, nor connected with each other. Neither could the fact of the existence of these recognizances affect the propriety of the repeal of this act, suspending that
 95
 The Solicitor General  said:—My hon. and learned friend seems altogether mistaken in the principle of law, upon which
 96
 Lord Folkestone  proposed a clause to the following effect:—That all persons bound by recognizances under the suspension act, be henceforth completely discharged from these recognizances, but that this clause should not apply to any other recognizances.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that the clause proposed by the noble lord would place the House in an extremely awkward situation. In such a case the House would actually be legislating on a subject, the legality of which remained to be discussed in a court of justice. He hoped, therefore, the difficulty would be avoided by the noble lord withdrawing the clause proposed.
 Lord Folkestone  said, he rested his proposal, not upon a doubtful statement of any facts, but upon such as were notorious, and that he proposed merely the complete repeal of the suspension act.
 The Attorney General  said, it was impossible the gentlemen opposite could have rightly understood what he had said on the subject of these recognizances. He begged again to state, that the reason why the persons who had been set at liberty on their own recognizances had not been discharged from those recognizances, was, because they had maintained the illegality of their being obliged to enter into them. He therefore wished to give them an opportunity of bringing the matter to issue, and of having it decided by the court of King's Bench. Several of those persons had complained to him on the subject. He had told all of them that they would not be called upon. God forbid, that he or any other law officer of the Crown should' attempt to direct any persons against whom charges had been made by government in what manner they should proceed in their defence. Many of those persons had, asked his advice as to the manner in which they should proceed. He refused to advise them; but repeated, that their attendance was not necessary; and that if they had any fault to find with having been obliged to enter into those recognizances they might make their complaint to the court of King's Bench, or in any other manner they pleased. He did not wish to discharge them from their recognizances, lest it should be said that he had thereby deprived them of an opportunity of seeking redress. They had all received notice, save one, before they left their different homes, that their presence in town was not necessary. The person who did not receive such notice had set off for London before the notice reached that part of the country where he lived. It could not, therefore, be said, that their not being discharged was in order to harass or distress them. Another observation which had been made was, that because the suspension act was repealed every thing which had been done under that act should also be repealed
 101
 Lord Folkestone  said, that to save the time of the House he would withdraw the clause, if the attorney-general would state that it was his intention to discharge all those recognizances. But if he only said it was not his intention to call upon them, he should press it; as he thought it was most strongly called for.
 The Attorney General  said, the nature of the case had been misunderstood, if it was supposed that the persons in question had entered into recognizances for their good behaviour. Their recognizances were only for their appearance in court to answer any charge that might be instituted against them. At the time they were discharged, it had not been determined whether any proceeding against them should be instituted. Their recognizances could not afterwards be discharged till the first day of term. On that day they appeared in court, notwithstanding the notice given them that their appearance was not necessary. When they appeared in court, he told them that their recognizances should not be acted upon, but should be immediately discharged; but some of them replied, that they had a right to make objections to the recognizances. He then at once said he would not deprive them of that right; God forbid that he should interpose, by any deed of his, between them and their right to bring forward legal objections. He had now no hesitation in saying, that their recognizances would be forthwith discharged.
 Lord Folkestone  then withdrew the proposed clause. The bill was read a third time, and passed.
 Lord Folkestone  said, he had a Petition to present from Francis Ward, one of the persons whose case had that day been under discussion. It was perhaps not drawn up in the manner which might have been best fitted to procure it atten-
 105 106 107 108 109 l 110
 Lord Folkestone  said, that the circumstances detailed in the petition were of so serious a nature, that it was his intention to move, that a committee be appointed for the purpose of inquiring into the truth of what it stated. If there was no objection, he would do so then; if otherwise, he would give notice of bringing it before the House as early as possible.
 Mr. Bennet  said, he hoped his noble friend would give notice of his motion. He could assure the House, the system was not confined to that miserable man, but that others had suffered under barbarous, inhuman, and illegal treatment; such as mixing them with felons, and loading them with irons for months together. Numerous petitions would be presented on the subject, and it would be the bounden duty of the House, as the representatives of the people, to inquire into them.
 Lord Folkestone  then presented a petition from certain inhabitants of Nottingham, setting forth, "That the petitioners are neighbours of, and have been for some years acquainted with Mr. Francis Ward, lately in confinement under a warrant from the secretary of state, on suspicion of high treason; that they have lately seen a petition which the said Francis Ward is about to offer to the House; that they wish to state to the House, that the said Francis Ward has always merited the character of a hard-working, sober, honest, industrious man, and has conducted himself with propriety and respectability in his station in life, and that the petitioners are fully assured that he is incapable of committing any act of treason, or of doing any thing which would justify the proceedings had against him; that he has, in consequence of his imprisonment, sustained much injury in his business; and that the petitioners pray the House to take his case into their most serious consideration, in order that they may provide the said Francis Ward with such relief as to their wisdom may appear just, and take such steps as shall effectually prevent the recurrence of such proceedings."
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill, to suspend the operation of the Irish Grand Jury Presentment act, which had been passed in the last session. The reasons for his calling upon the House to take this step were, the impossibility at the present time to carry the provisions of that act into effect, from the great difficulty of finding proper persons to undertake the office of county surveyor. No time would be lost between now and the spring to endeavour to carry that desirable measure into effect; but it was highly necessary to look at the qualifications of the persons who offered themselves; and for that purpose, the government had been particularly careful in selecting such persons as judges, as could be most depended upon. He would now simply move, for leave to bring in a bill to suspend the operation of the act for regulating the Irish Grand Jury Presentments.
 Mr. Abercromby  thought it an ill omen, that the right hon. gentleman had not stated any intention to propose a substitute for the measure which he meant to suspend. This was to be lamented the more, as the system of Irish Grand Jury Presentments was confessedly such as called loudly for some legislative remedy. But after the reports from two central committees, every man must be impressed with the necessity for such a measure. He could not doubt the sincerity of the right hon. mover, who was the original author of the act which he now proposed to suspend, nor the disposition of the Irish government to carry it into execution; but it seemed strange, that where there were places to dispose of in Ireland, there should not be found a sufficient number of candidates. Yet the difficulty of finding 32 surveyors, was one of the main causes alleged for this motion; for the other cause, namely, the limitation of the grant of presentments to the summer assizes, might be easily removed, without suspending the present act.
 Mr. Fitzgerald  assured the learned gentleman, that he felt extremely anxious for the success of this measure, but finding so many difficulties in the way of its execution, and the government consequently embarrassed, he thought himself bound in candour to propose its suspension; which, however, it was to be observed, was only to continue during the present session, within which period he hoped that a more practicable measure would be devised. The learned gentleman might be assured, that he was not disposed to withdraw from the principle of the measure to which his motion referred, but, to render that principle effective, he must look for the support of other gentlemen, who felt an interest in the concerns of Ireland.
 Mr. Peel  vindicated the conduct of the Irish government, who were decidedly anxious for the principle of this measure; but to render that measure effective, 32 fully competent surveyors were necessary. In order, then, to ascertain the competency of the candidates for this office, three respectable commissioners were appointed, and the result of their examination was most discouraging, therefore it was found necessary to suspend the measure, and he hoped that the disposition of government could hardly be questioned, when it was recollected, that in abandoning the measure, it abandoned the pa-
 § 113 l l
 The Solicitor General  observed, that the necessity of the clause was now placed on a new ground, on which, however, he was ready to meet it. It had been said that the court of King's-bench would use those recognizances, the parties having entered into them voluntarily, as a ground for refusing to discharge them, and also for proving their being legally entered into. But that he conceived was not the question before the House. The question to be decided was, whether the parties taking those recognizances had a right to take them? If the magistrates who took them had no right to do so, then it mattered not whether the parties had entered into them voluntarily or otherwise, they were illegal. The only power taken from a magistrate by the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act was, his being prevented from setting those persons who might be arrested under it at liberty on bail. But any act of the persons who had been arrested, however willingly entered into by them, could not be binding on them if entered into before an incompetent tribunal. He should therefore repeat, that the only question was, whether the magistrates had a right to take those recognizances from the parties liberated, as if they had, there could be no complaint of illegality; if not, the recognizances were not binding.
 The Attorney General  said, that were it not for the reasons which he had before given, the recognizances would all have been discharged. He should repeat, that he had declined doing so, lest it should be said that by having discharged them, he had prevented many individuals from seeking redress for what they considered a great grievance.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  expressed his wish to give a distinct answer to the important question which the hon. gentleman had thought proper to put; namely, whether it was the intention of his majesty's ministers to propose any farther continuance of the restriction upon cash payments by the Bank. He was enabled to say, that the Bank had made ample preparation for resuming its payments in cash at the time fixed by parliament, and that he knew of nothing in the internal state of the country, or in its political relations with foreign powers, which would render it expedient to continue the restriction; but that there was reason to believe that pecuniary arrangements of foreign powers were going on, of such a nature and extent, as might probably make it necessary for parliament to continue the restriction, so long as the immediate effects of those arrangements were in operation. In order to guard against any misunderstanding, the right hon. gentleman repeated this statement, and then proceeded to the other points referred to. As to the loan of six millions from the Bank, at 4 per cent interest, he should, ere long, have to submit a proposition to the House for the payment of that debt; but with respect to the three millions without interest, which, for obvious reasons, was rather to be regarded as a gift than as a loan, he rather thought that neither the House nor the hon. gentleman himself, would be reconciled to any proposition for depriving the public of such an important accommodation.
 Mr. Bathurst  said, it was the practice of the other side of the House to represent this measure as setting its supporters in
 98
 Mr. Bathurst  said, that the persons alluded to in the report were not employed by government, but by inferior magistrates.
 Mr. Tierney  said, after what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, they were to understand that a danger did exist up to the 20th of January, when the last person was discharged—a danger which rendered it unsafe to repeal the suspension of the Habeas Corpus. That point ministers were therefore pledged to make good; for if the suspension existed one single day beyond the necessity for it, the king's ministers were guilty of a crime against the liberty of the subject. According to the right hon. gentleman the reports of both Houses of parliament were wrong.—It seemed the spies had never, as stated in these reports, promoted any mischief. He was to prove that the spies employed by government were never in any one instance, the cause of mischief.
 Mr. Tierney  observed, that some of these poor unfortunate men had been more than twelve months in confinement, during which time their families had been left unprotected and starving. It was therefore a question not so much of justice as of humanity. Even if they could obtain redress in a court of law, yet they
 * 100
 Mr. Tierney  observed, that the right hon. gentleman had said, that the Bank was prepared, or in a condition to resume the payment of its notes in cash, which was rather surprising, as the issue of those notes had been materially enlarged, instead of being diminished, for some time back. Yet the Bank, according to the right hon. gentleman, was not only prepared to resume its cash payments, but there was nothing in the internal situation or foreign relations of the country to prevent that resumption. There was, however, something about loans to foreign powers, which might, it seemed, urge his majesty's ministers to propose a farther
 116 § 117
 Mr. Tierney  considered the secretary of state bound to give the House the fullest information of the reason and grounds which induced his majesty's government to require the parties to enter into these recognizances.
 Mr. Tierney  asked, if the committee was to be chosen by ballot.
 Mr. Tierney  asked in what way these papers were to be dealt with? In what way were they to proceed on Monday?
 Mr. Tierney  agreed in thinking that the suspension act ought to be repealed with as little delay as possible. He should abstain at present from entering into any of the topics alluded to by the chancellor of the exchequer, in the understanding that the subject would be gone fully into on a future day.
 Mr. Brougham  said, they were still left very much in the dark as to the manner of choosing the committee, which was by far the most important part of the business. The right hon. gentleman had told them it would be chosen in the usual manner. Now, a committee was chosen in two ways last session—one time by ballot, and another time by motion.
 Mr. Brougham  wished to know, whether the committee was to be proposed on Monday, or on a future day?
 Mr. Brougham  imagined, that the attorney general did not yet understand the plea on which the clause was offered to the House. It was by virtue of the act of suspension that the secretary of state had been enabled to exact these recognizances from the prisoners. The persons bound by these recognizances might go to the King's-bench and demand to be released from them. But might not the King's-bench say that they had voluntarily, and with their eyes open, entered into them? Was it not likely they would say so? The attorney-general, then, well knew they were without their remedy. But what was it that had enabled the government to demand these recognizances in such a manner that the prisoners were compelled to comply? The suspension of the Habeas Corpus. It was then suspended; and at the time when their recognizances were entered into, no man knew how long it would remain suspended. Look then at the different situation of a prisoner while the suspension continued. In common cases, when the government had detained a man, they might offer him his discharge on his recognizance: if he refused that, the alternative was that he must be brought to trial. But, during the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act,
 102
 Mr. Brougham  contended, that the noble lord had not understood the grounds on which the clause was proposed. It was true, that after the passing of the present bill, no persons could be arrested or detained in prison, without having the power of forcing on their trial; but in what way did the government now endeavour to escape from this? The persons detained under the suspension act were bound on their recognizance to appear in court on a certain day, that is to say the bill would still be in force against them. Various things might be demanded from men confined under such circumstances, as the condition on which they could obtain their liberation—they might be compelled to pay 100 l
 Mr. Lockhart  remarked, that though it had been stated by the solicitor-general,
 97
 Mr. Grenfell  rose for the purpose of obtaining some information from the chancellor of the exchequer with regard to one or two very important questions, intimately connected with the financial and commercial interests of the country. They were questions upon which distinct information ought to be given without delay. He alluded, in the first place, to the resumption of cash payments on the part of the Bank of England, which, as at present fixed by law, would take place on the 5th of July next. After the promises and the declarations,
 114 l l l 115
 Mr. Brand  said, the attorney-general had confounded the practice of the courts of law with the legislation of the country. The men detained under the suspension act were enlarged, on the condition of entering into recognizances for their appearance in court on a future day, and therefore they were under the control of the court. But they were repealing the act under which these men were held in confinement, and therefore any detention of them after the repeal would be illegal. But if these men had been bound on their recognizance to appear in court on a future day, they might still be called on for that purpose, if some provision were not introduced into the bill. The measure recommended by his noble friend was one becoming the House to adopt, insomuch as no such detention ought to be continued after the passing of the repeal. The attorney-general had confounded two subjects, the remedy against the persons demanding the recognizance, and the security against future oppression.
 Sir W. Burroughs  said:—I certainly agree that the act gave no new power to commit; the power has been well observed to have existed before. However, the exercise of it must, in this case, be considered extremely objectionable. The secretary of state has evidently usurped this power to the prejudice of these parties, nor can the hon. and learned gentleman easily exculpate himself from the charge of neglect of duty, in not having discharged these parties without taking any recognizances. The attorney-general ought to have known, that no secretary of state has any power, much less right, on a charge of high treason, to liberate the accused on his own recognizance, or commit him to bail; much less can any inferior magistrate exercise such a prerogative; this power belongs only to the court of King's-bench. The attempt to justify this conduct has been equally futile with the attempt to impress on the public mind the necessity of the late rash and alarming measures of an administration which has not hesitated to plunge numerous victims into gaols without cause, and to keep them them there immured, without permitting their innocence to be established, in order that they might keep alive those fears and apprehensions to which they were indebted for the support of many, who were otherwise averse to their guilty measures.
 Sir W. Burroughs  observed, that those persons who had been arrested under the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, and afterwards set at liberty on their own recognizances, had sustained a much greater injury than was generally imagined. They had been accused of crimes of which no proof could be brought against them, and by being obliged to enter into recognizances for their appearance, an imputation of guilt had been cast upon them. A blot was thrown on their characters which it was not easy to remove from the public mind; and he would say, that if these persons had been arrested for the purpose of injuring their charac-
 104
 Sir W. Burroughs  asked, in what manner the subject would be gone into on Monday?
 Sir H. Parnell  agreed in the propriety of the proposed suspension, not so much for the reasons stated by the right hon. mover, as from other considerations; but he hoped that another and more efficient measure would be brought forward by some one connected with the government; for if it came from any other quarter, its success would be problematical. He trusted that such a measure would be speedily proposed, for if delayed until a late period of the session, he foresaw that it would fail. As to the difficulty of providing competent surveyors, he believed that several could be easily found in this country. This he was led to conclude from the fact, that the surveyor who superintended the operative part of the great road to Holyhead, had for two years only 150 l l
 Sir S. Romilly  said, that his hon. and learned friend had stated that the question had been placed on a new ground, and that the only subject for consideration was, whether the parties taking the recognizances had a right to do so. The secretary of state had, by the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, been vested with the power of taking persons into custody
 103
 Sir Samuel Romilly,  thinking the suspension act had existed much too long, and that it would have been better if it had never existed at all, said he should not give any opposition to the repeal. They were passing the bill with great propriety, and dispensing with the usual forms. They did so because it was a matter of extreme injury that the suspension should not be repealed immediately after it ceased to be necessary. Now, how long had this extreme injury been allowed to continue? Was the suspension act necessary last night—last week—amonth—or two months ago? [Hear, hear!] When the question was before the House last session, it was proposed that the bill should expire on the 1st of December; that, if it should still be found necessary to vest ministers with these extraordinary powers, the judgment of parliament might have been taken on the subject. If the bill had only been in force to the 1st of December, parliament, in all probability, would not have been called to meet, and the act would have been allowed to expire. By not advising parliament to be called sooner than the 27th of January, the country had been existing in a state in which it ought not to have been suffered to exist. Because ministers had not thought proper to advise the assembling of parliament, the country had been exposed to the misfortune of existing under powers, for the continuance of which there was no necessity. These powers had been acted on till within a very few weeks of the time when ministers knew that they would have to account for their conduct. The fact was, that no necessity existed for the bill ever since the month of June last. He had not, since June, heard of any signs,—he would not say of an insurrection,—but of dissatisfaction existing in any part of the country. In that very month of June it was that the conduct of the missionaries employed by government was exposed. As soon as their conduct was brought under notice, these persons were discontinued in their employments, and since that time they had heard of no discontent, no dissatisfaction, no conspiracies.
 Sir S. Romilly  said, he did not particularly allude to the employment of Oliver. The last report of the secret committee of the Lords had thrown sufficient light upon that subject, in which it had been stated, that the committee "had seen reason to apprehend that the language and conduct of some  persons 99 *
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that in calling the attention of the House to this subject, he did not think it necessary to go over the same arguments which had been adduced when the committee was first constituted. The House would see the importance of losing no time in reviving that committee, as to which, he might say, that whatever difference there was respecting any particular measure which they might have recommended, there could be no difference as to its activity and fidelity. If some doubted whether the course of their investigations had been in the true spirit which parliament and the country expected from them, there could be but one opinion as to the extent of their inquiries, and the importance of the objects to which they had turned their attention. The committee had drawn up six extensive and laborious reports respecting the official establishments, the official reductions which were advisable, and the modifications which might be advantageous to the public service. Though the committee had not imagined that the House had devolved to it the consideration as to what precise establishments would be necessary in the great branches of the public service—the army, the navy, and the ordnance; yet they had exhibited so many and so important views on that subject, that when the House hereafter discussed those subjects, their decision would be much more easy. The committee also had made inquiries on the great subject of the general revenue and expenditure of the country, and how far they were likely to square and meet. Other objects still remained for the consideration of the committee, and he should therefore move that it be revived. He should not think it necessary to go into a detail of the measures
 129 130
 Mr. Bankes  said, that aright hon. gentleman, of great knowledge in matters of finance, was placed on the committee of last year, but had retired on account of the ill state of his health. It was now happily restored; and he suggested that he should be placed on the committee.
 Mr. Peel  observed, that there was no period in which less recourse was had to the military power than during the last two or three years. The civil power in Ireland was regulated partly by the executive government and partly by the grand juries; the former superintended it in cases of disturbance where strong measures were required, the latter where the ordinary office of constable was deemed sufficient. The grand juries were empowered to remove constables for negligence or misconduct, and to appropriate salaries to the amount of 20 l
 Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald  bore testimony to the infrequency of military interference in ordinary police cases in Ireland. Much praise was due to the government of that country for harmonising the dispositions of all classes, and abating every thing of an unconstitutional interference of the military. Considerable satisfaction had been given to the people at large, on finding the lord lieutenant had been empowered to take out of the consolidated fund, such sumsas should be necessary to maintain the public tranquillity, and preserve individuals from experiencing those acts of violence and aggression which had too long been a stain to the pages of Irish history.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  said, that he did not think it necessary to discuss the merits of a bill not yet brought under the notice of the House. The hon. baronet had expressed his sorrow for imputations thrown out against Irish grand juries; but he must tell the hon. baronet that he never had heard any such imputations till he heard them from himself. It had been merely declared in general, that perjury and fraud did exist.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that the manner in which the committee had proceeded was, to invite the attendance of any member of the House, who had peculiar information in any particular branch of public business. This was the case with the heads of official departments, and he did not think a better course could be pursued this session. He should be unwilling that any alteration should be made in the names on that committee, on account of their intimate acquaintance with the former part of the investigation; but the occasional assistance of any other member might be obtained.
 Mr. Bankes  could not see how the right
 131
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had no objection to the production of the papers. As to the remarks of the hon. gentleman, another opportunity would occur for discussing them, and he should not then trouble the House.
 Lord Castlereagh  presented, by command of the Prince Regent, a green bag, containing information respecting the internal state of the country; to be kept in the custody of the clerk of the House. The noble lord said, he should on Thursday move that they be referred to a committee.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, a circular had been sent to the different collectors to destroy all papers on the subject, except such as were necessary at the receivers-office to collect in and check the unpaid balances.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that answers he knew had been returned in some instances, probably in all. The circular applied to all papers—copies as well as originals.
 The Attorney General  said, he saw no reason for acceding to this motion, as it did not appear that any thing was done towards Mr. Hone, different from that towards other persons similarly circumstanced. This, indeed, the hon. mover had admitted, that nothing more was exacted by the crown office from Mr. Hone, than would have been demanded from any body else in the same situation, and that he (the attorney-general) wished to be distinctly understood; for as Mr. Hone
 136 137
 Sir Francis Burdett  thought, that no objection whatever had been raised against the adoption of the motion by the learned gentleman who had just sat down. For the upshot of all the learned gentleman had said, was merely this, that all the information which the motion had in view, was quite notorious. But if notoriety were admitted as a valid reason against the adoption of motions, how few would be carried in that House. For that was generally notorious which it was the object of a motion to bring before the House in a regular and authentic shape. The production of information in this shape was, indeed, deemed generally necessary, to form what was called a parliamentary ground for subsequent proceedings. But the great grievance in the case now before them, was the absolute refusal of justice to the poor, by means of the enormous expense imposed on its administration. He should like to know of what avail the best political and legal institutions could be, if they were thus rendered inaccessible. The great grievance therefore was, that the insatiable thirst of taxation had made the administration of justice a cruel insult and mockery to the people. The hon. mover proposed to bring forward some legislative remedy for this grievance. The reason on which he wished to found this measure was no reason, according to the attorney-general, because it was perfectly notorious to the whole world! The grievance was indeed notorious; the greater the notoriety of this oppressive system, the more peremptorily was its reformation called for, at the hands of the representatives of the people.
 Lord Castlereagh  felt himself bound to give his negative to the motion, because its professed object was different from the real one. The professed object was to lay a foundation for some legislative remedy as to fees paid in the Crown office. This object would be effected by a general motion on the subject. The information thus obtained would, by the rule-of-three, at once show the charges in any particular case! But the real object was to give the public an exaggerated view of the question, by connecting it with Mr. Hone. The trial of Mr. Hone having now taken place, and the attorney-general having confessedly displayed all the qualities which belonged to him in the discharge of his duty, he would say nothing now on the subject; but he must give his negative to the motion for the reason which he had assigned.
 Lord Folkestone  declared, that he could not hear, without surmrise, the objections
 141 ‡ 142
 Lord A. Hamilton  said, that two-thirds of the people of Scotland had disapproved of the noble lord's former bill on this subject. He was connected with a part of the country where a lunatic asylum was lately erected, which he considered a model for such buildings. He hoped this bill would be subjected to the same examination in Scotland as the former bill.
 General Fergusson  expressed his disinclination to oppose the introduction of the bill, but reserved the declaration of his opinion upon its merits for a future stage.
 Lord Binning  admitted that objections to the former bill were very generally entertained in Scotland. His object in delaying any proceedings as to the bill till after Easter, was in order to give the people of Scotland time to examine it, and to consider the very material changes he had made in the measure. The great objection formerly was, to the appointment of general commissioners, to carry the measure into effect. Now county commissioners were substituted, excepting two commissioners to be appointed) by the secretary of state, for the purpose of seeing that the objects of the act should be generally effected.
 Mr. Wynn  approved of the object of the bill, and took that occasion of expressing his regret and surprise, that notwithstanding the horrible scenes described to that House in a report from a special committee three years ago, no legislative measure had as yet been passed, to provide against the continuance or repetition of such cruelties. Unfortunately the right hon. gentleman who was so active in his inquiries upon this subject (Mr. Rose), was now no more; but the subject ought to be taken up by some other member, and if no one else more competent should undertake the task, he himself should feel it his duty to propose a bill upon this important subject. [Hear, hear!]
 Lord Binning  stated, the new bill
 143
 Mr. Bathurst  said, that according to
 140
 Mr. Tierney  said, that though he was somewhat recovered, he was still in too weak a state to attend to business in the morning and in the evening also. He begged, therefore, to be excused from serving on the committee.
 Mr. Brougham  defended the mode adopted by the hon. mover. His object was merely to obtain a foundation for a legislative proceeding. He said, in. effect, "give me certain documents, and I will show you the foundation of such a measure." "No," said the noble lord, "but we will tell you how much is charged per sheet." After such information should be laid before them, they would remain quite ignorant of the sum paid by each individual. The knowledge of this could not be obtained but by such a motion as was stated by his hon. friend. Let the amount paid in the case of Mr. Hone be given, and, if they chose, in the case of five or six others, in order to avoid attaching the question to any particular case, and they would then have a proper foundation for further proceedings.
 Mr. Brougham  wished to know, whether answers had been given to this circular, and whether the command applied to copies as well as originals.
 Mr. Brougham  wished to know, from the chancellor of
 134
 Mr. Grenfell  said, he should trouble the House with a few observations, in relation to the papers for which he was about to move. It would be absurd for him to affect any surprise at the communication of the chancellor of the exchequer, respecting the affairs of the Bank. Though he was unaware of the grounds which had been stated for continuing the restriction, he was aware that on some pretence or other such a communication would be made. He had long expressed a persuasion in that House, that such a course would be taken, when the ministers approached the time when they were to fulfil those promises and hopes, with which, for the last three years, they had entertained, might he not say deluded the House and the country. Those promises had been given not only by the chancellor of the exchequer, but by other members of his majesty's government, and particularly by the right hon. the surveyor of woods and forests. There were words, too, introduced into the bill, to impress more strongly on the country the confident expectation that, on the 5th of July next, the Bank would resume its payments in cash. These fair promises and protestations on the part of the government, were met by similar promises and protestations on the part of the Bank. The governors of that corporation declared, that they were not only able, but most anxious to discharge their solemn engagements to the public. If the directors were sincere, and he had no reason to believe that they were not, particularly one director, of great respectability, not in that House—Mr. Harman—the Bank, for its credit, was desirous of resuming its payments. That corporation would, he hoped, beg to be relieved from that situation in which it had been placed in the year 1797, which, whatever profit was derived from it, was a situation of disgrace. The situation of the Bank was anomalous. Nothing was to be found like it in the history of trade or commerce. What would have been rum to any other body, was the cause of their wealth. The stopping payments for one and twenty years, the failure of all their engagements to the public and their
 132 133
 Mr. William Smith  said, that at present he did not conceive it necessary for him to go into a minute detail of the circumstances connected with the motion which he had announced. He should content himself with moving, that an account be laid before the House, of the sum received from Mr. Hone at the crown office for copies of the various informations filed against him, in order to form the grounds of proceedings which he intended hereafter to bring forward. He took that method of procuring the necessary information, as he thought it best adapted for bringing that information before them with the greatest degree of authenticity. At the same time he thought it proper to mention, that the case of Mr. Hone was rather the incidental occasion than the reason of the motion now proposed for their consideration. He had for more than twenty years been of the same opinion respecting the expediency of reform in this department; and he now took shame to himself that he had been so remiss in bringing it under discussion. Had the subject been repeatedly agitated, it was impossible but some amelioration should have taken place. As to Mr. Hone, he had never known any thing of him till the time of his trial, but he was ready to confess, that in considering the recent prosecutions instituted against him, he could not help admiring the intrepidity, sagacity, and skill, with which he had conducted his own defence. He had since had an opportunity of conversing with him in private, and he must declare that he discovered nothing that could tend to give him an unfavourable impression of his character, nothing unbecoming the man-
 135 of
 Mr. W. Smith  observed, that if the mo-
 138 139
 Sir F. Flood  said:—The bill which the right hon. gentleman now finds it necessary to suspend is a very extraordinary one; and I attribute this extraordinary character in part to the late period of the session, and the hurry in which it was carried through the House. The right hon. gentleman promises a new bill to supply the loss of the present. I wish the right hon. gentleman had left us in quiet possession of the former act—that act was framed by sage and experienced heads—by the Irish parliament. I hope the outlines of the intended bill will be laid before parliament previous to the Easter recess, in order that the grand Juries of Ireland may understand them, and construct the next presentments accordingly I am glad that the late bill is to be given up: its tendency was to introduce into every county a set of men total Strangers to it, at salaries from 500 l l 146
 Sir H. Parnell  said, there appeared to be a misunderstanding on the part of the hon. baronet. Perjury and fraud had by none been imputed to grand juries; such things had been only said to prevail, without specifying, in what quarter. It was undeniable, that grand juries were composed of men as pure, as upright, as any in society; but it was also a fact, that under them frauds had been practised, and to prevent the continuance of those frauds, it was necessary to give a more extensive control over those intrusted with the expenditure.
 Sir H. Parnell  said, that so far from the grand juries, having the power of reforming the office of constable, the whole complaint of the petitioners consisted in their not possessing any means of rendering the office efficient. This was not a matter concerning which any doubt could exist. Every magistrate and grand juror would be ready to agree with the opinions of the petitioners. Neither they, nor had he, found fault with the government in being too ready to make use of the military. The present government, he was aware, had taken considerable pains to place the matter under proper regulations. He had hoped that the right hon. gentleman would himself have been ready to bring forward some measure to meet the wishes of the petitioners; but as he had not done so, he would now give notice, that soon after the Easter
 145
 Sir H. Parnell  rose to present a petition to the House from the high sheriff and grand jury of the Queen's county, which, he could venture to say, spoke the sentiments of all the magistracy of Ireland upon the subject to which it relates. The petitioners complained of the inadequacy of the civil power, as provided by the statutes, to enable the magistrates to administer, with any effect, the criminal law; and stated, that crimes were constantly committed with impunity, and that it was necessary to have constant recourse to military assistance in very trivial cases. He could, from his own knowledge, state several instances in which the interference of the military had been attended with fatal effects. In one case, where the offence was only an assault, the person against whom the warrant was granted, was shot, while attempting to escape after having been taken; in another, several lives were lost by soldiers being called in to prevent an expected battle between two parties of the lower orders. While the last assizes were going on in Mary borough, a corporal and six men were sent to arrest a man who had been concerned in stopping carriages loaded with provisions. He had heard two judges from the bench justify the magistrates for calling out the military when the general peace of the country was in no ways disturbed, on the ground of the defective state of the civil power. Though the office of constable existed in Ireland, it was not in any respect similar to the office as it existed in this country. Here the magistrates could enforce the laws by the aid of the constables; in Ireland they were so inefficient, that the magistrates were constantly obliged to assist in person in the execution of their own warrants. If a magistrate gave a constable a warrant, in nine cases out of ten it was not executed, and the guilty escaped punishment. So little confidence was placed in the power of the magistrate to secure redress, that it was a common practice to suffer offences against the law to pass over without any attempt to
 144
 Lord Folkestone  said, that according to the ancient usage of the House, he took that opportunity of pointing out a recent alteration, by which the public were aggrieved he meant the alteration which had lately taken place in the mode of printing the Votes of that House. He had neglected to refer to it at the time of the renewal of the sessional orders, and he took the present as the most proper remaining opportunity for doing so. The House would recollect, that in the last session a change was made in the manner of publishing the votes, with a view to the convenience of members; and, on the whole, that change was beneficial. But there was one part of that arrangement which was injurious to the public; and that was the circumstance, that no petitions were printed in the votes, except such as were expressly ordered to be printed by a specific vote, which were published in an appendix. He was aware that a great number of petitions had been presented in the last session, and that the accumulation of these documents had been the chief cause of the extent to which the votes had been swelled, and the consequent delay which occurred in the publication of them. But he thought it a matter of respect which the House owed to its constituents and to the people, to publish those complaints which were transmitted to it, and delay might be equally avoided by the publication of these petitions, as a matter of course, "in the appendix, as the select ones now were. It was true, that in every instance in which any member had moved that a petition be printed, no objection had been made; but the very fact, that a question was necessary previous to the printing, made an opening for objections; and it was a fair matter of complaint, on the part of the people, that their requests, when received by the House were not printed as a matter of course. The Votes of the House were the only regular way in which its proceedings were made public; and the old votes seemed to be adapted to that purpose. He had not made up his mind to submit any motion to the House: but he had thought fit to put them on their guard against the consequence of a measure which might lead to an imputation, that they did not attend to the prayers of the people.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had now to propose a vote of Exchequer bills to provide for other Exchequer bills which were now outstanding. He should take this opportunity to give a brief view of the state of the unfunded debt. At an early period in the last session, 24 millions were issued, which were now outstanding. This sum he now proposed to provide for. After that another sum of 18 millions was issued, which was outstanding, which he did not now intend to replace. There was in the last session another sum of
 149 * l l l l l l l
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that comparing the actual state of the debt at the beginning of each year, the hon. gentleman, than whom no one was more competent to inquire into this subject, would see, when the accounts were presented, that there was a decrease in the debt of near three millions.
 Mr. C. Grant  jun. said, that he had stated in his Resolutions, that the utmost amount of Exchequer bills would be 60 millions: he had taken it as unfavourably as possible to the cause which he had argued, but he had guarded against the possibility of an inference that the sum must necessarily be so high.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he had given a short and necessarily superficial view of the state of the debt; but if he had not done so, no one would have been more ready to blame him than the right hon. gentleman. He admitted that a part of the services of last year were as yet unperformed, and that consequently so large an amount of Exchequer hills was not issued as the Treasury was enabled to issue. But he deemed it perfectly fair to take a comparison of the amount of the debt on the same day in each year.
 Sir F. Burdett  said, he expected no benefit from the appointment of the committee. They would, he had no doubt, expend much labour, but it would be labour in vain. He could not exactly accord with what had been just said. There had been no great alteration in the character of the working people of England. There was not less industry, less energy, less desire of independence, than there formerly had been. The evil was, that people so disposed had no means of supporting themselves. There were not the funds to employ them with profit to the employers. That the wages of labour were low, was no subject of complaint against any class. No one gave less for labour than it was the interest of the labourer to receive. The employer knew whether the exertions of the labourer would repay him. The whole case had therefore been stated on unfair grounds. The people of England were the most energetic, the most unremittingly industrious people on the face of the earth, and the cause of the condition to which, notwithstanding these qualities, they were reduced, was obvious to his mind; and it was also obvious to his why many others did not wish to perceive it. It was the pressure of the enormous taxation on the country. If the poor laws had been the cause of the present condition of the people, how did it happen that at no former time had they produced the same effects, though they had existed for centuries? They had seen no such effects but within the few last years. He remembered, when he was a boy, before the late war, when he was playing with the labourers at his father's house, that the spirit of independence was universal; that it was a common boast with the English labourer, that neither he nor any of his family had ever asked relief from the parish. The general state of the people was now changed. The committee which was ap-
 153 154
 Lord Castlereagh  expressed his belief that whatever difference of opinion might exist as to the necessity which had called for such a quantity of public expense for some years back, or as to the degree of practical economy winch ought to be adopted, there could not be much difference as to the propriety of considering the best means of administering the poor-laws. He apprehended, therefore, that the hon. gentleman (Mr. Curwen) was mistaken in supposing that the country was indifferent about the inquiry which had already been instituted by the House upon this subject, and which it was proposed by the present motion to continue. On the contrary, he had reason to believe that great good had resulted from the report of the former committee (even if no legislative measure should follow), in consequence of the facts which it disclosed, and the information which it communicated to the country with regard to the administration of the sums collected under the poor laws. In that committee he had himself occasionally attended, and he never witnessed any such diverging of opinion as the hon. gentleman had stated; for instead of the 89 members of. that committee differing from each other, and-from the chairman, the fact was, that all the members completely concurred upon certain important radical points, and on these points, therefore, he would recommend that some legislative measure should at once be brought forward; for he was an advocate for the practical amendment and gradual amelioration of this system, being convinced that nothing like that subversion could be entertained by parliament which the hon. gentleman appeared to recommend; for the system of the poor laws was interwoven with the institutions of the country, and the repeal
 155
 Sir F. Burdett  said, he had not disapproved of investigation, but had stated what he would restate, that no investigation or discussion would ever afford any relief, without such a reduction of the establishments of the government, and such a rigid economy in the expenditure, as would reduce the enormous taxation of the country to a scale compatible with the fair employment of the industrious population, and their full enjoyment of the fruits of their industry.
 Mr. Caleraft  said, he had not very sanguine expectations from the labours of the committee. The report, he would admit, had done some good, but no effectual relief could be expected without the powerful co-operation of government. Two points of great importance and considerable nicety would deserve the attention of the committee. The one was, whether personal and funded property should not be subjected to poor-rates as well as landed property. The other was, whether the petty sessions might not take consideration of many subjects at present devolved upon the quarter sessions.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he did not know the exact amount; but it did not exceed a million.
 Mr. Tierney  requested to know what was the amount of out-standing Exchequer bills on account of the deficiencies of the revenue.
 Mr. Tierney  wished to know how the hon. gentleman, the colleague in office of the chancellor of the exchequer, was mistaken in the quantity of Exchequer bills which would be outstanding at the time of the new year. As to the assertion that 15 millions of the national debt had been reduced, it was impossible, as so much money had not been in the hands of the commissioners. He did not blame the chancellor of the exchequer for taking the first opportunity of sounding a kind of bugle, as to the prosperous state of the country, and before the accounts were presented there would be little possibility of contradicting him.
 Mr. Curwen  said, he should heartily rejoice if, when the accounts were laid before the House, the statement of the chancellor of the exchequer should not be found to be fallacious. From the best consideration he had been able to give the estimates, there had been a deficiency in
 * 150
 Mr. Curwen  said, he had no opposition to make to the motion. He agreed in opinion with the members of the committee, who thought that no partial measures would be of use. The House ought not to shrink from the odium which the enactment of the necessary measures would entail on them, as any measures must be Attended with suffering to individuals. All the expedients which had been adopted to mitigate the evils of the operation of the poor laws, had been ineffectual. Badging had first been resorted to in king William's time, and had a temporary effect. Poor-houses were then built, and the objection of the people to be confined in them also had its effect. But in the course of years the evil had
 152 d d.,
 Mr. W. Smith  said, he had brought forward yesterday, respecting the expence of obtaining coppice of informations from the Crown-office, that it was not open to any of those objections which had been urged against it. He then moved, "That there be laid before this House, an Account of the Fees which have been taken by the Clerks in the Crown-officio for Libel, given to persons accused, or to others on their behalf, applying for the same, during the years 1816 and 1817; specifying the rate according to which the charge is made, the total sum in each particular case, and to whose or what use the same is applied."—The motion was agreed to.
 Mr. Sturges Bourne 
 151 him. monumentum are perennius
 Sir George Warrender  rose to move the Navy Estimates. He said there was this year a small increase in the supply for this branch of the public service. The committee of finance had foreseen the possibility of such an increase. The addition this year was 1,000 sailors and 1,000 marines. The whole amount of men now was 20,000 sailors and marines. The cause of this small increase was the necessity of keeping up an establishment at St. Helena, and the state of South America. The rate of pay was somewhat higher in peace than war, because the proportion of able seamen to landmen was greater in time of peace, in order that the fleet might be more speedily put on a good footing, in case of emergency. The charge of ordnance was somewhat increased. A ship which in time of war had a complement of 480 men, in peace had but 300, although the number of guns remained the same. The charge for ordnance was therefore increased in the proportion of from four to seven shillings per man per month. He then moved, 1. "That 20,000 men be employed for the sea service for 13 months, from the 1st of January, 1818, including 6,000 royal marines. 2. That 611,000 l l s. l l l l s. l s.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he could not at once answer the statement of the hon. gentleman without examination. There was in the last year an arrear of war taxes, which made a difference between that year and 1816. The statement of the hon gentleman did not apply to the year just past.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that on the 1st of January, 1818, the whole of the unfunded and funded debt was less by nearly three millions, than it was on the 1st of January 1817, after all the services of the year had been answered.
 Lord Castlereagh  rose to move, that the Secret Papers respecting the internal state of the country, which he had brought down from the Prince Regent, be referred to a committee. It would be premature, in making this motion, for him to go into a general discussion of the state of the country. Whatever views gentlemen might have as to the late transactions, they would come to the discussion much better able to enter into it when the substance of the information contained in the papers was presented them by a committee. He should only make a few remarks on the course of the proceeding, leather than on any thing which might arise out of it. He had been asked by an hon. and learned gentleman, whether it was intended to propose any inquiry of a peculiar and special nature? and his answer had led to the expectation that a different committee would be appointed from that which had been appointed on former occasions of the same nature. This he had disclaimed, as he should conform himself precisely to former precedents. He had been asked, whether he had any objection to a motion to empower the committee to send for persons, papers, and records. He had been misled by his desire to conform to precedents, as he imagined no such power had previously been granted. He now found he was mistaken: and he was ready in this, as in other respects, to follow precedents of proceedings  in pari materiâ. 163
 Mr. Douglas  could not pass this opportunity of entering his protest against the mode of proceeding proposed by his majesty's ministers. For he considered all ballots a mere juggle, equally disgraceful and dangerous to the House of Commons. It would, indeed, be more becoming on the part of the noble lord to nominate at once the persons of whom he wished the committee to consist, and have his nomination carried by an undisguised majority, than to propose their appointment by ballot, than attempt to palm such a committee upon the country as the free unbiassed choice of the House of Commons. The right hon. gentleman on the other side had adverted to the case in 1801, with a view to answer the objections of the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down, upon the proposition before the House. But there was no parallel between the two cases: for in the case of 1801 there was not only a bill of indemnity proposed, but a suspension of the Habeas Corpus act in Ireland. Neither had the committee now proposed any parallel to the committees of the last session. The only object, indeed, of the committee under consideration, was to procure an act of indemnity for ministers, and this object was so evident that the proposed form must be deemed a mere fraud. Such, indeed, must be the impression of the country, and therefore the whole proceeding would serve to bring the House into contempt and ridicule. It was argued, however, that if there was any appearance of management and fraud in this proceeding. it was generally known and understood. For his own part, however, he thought all such appearances, and what were sometimes called pious frauds, were much better avoided. Although they might be points of notoriety among themselves, they were considered as points of detection by the country, and whether, justly or unjustly, served to bring into question the honour of the house, which, like the honour of a woman, should be maintained above suspicion. He objected altogether to the principle of forming committees by ballot; but in no case could it be so exceptionable as in that now under consideration. For what did the proposition mean? Why, that ministers, being under accusation, sought to appoint a committee of their own selection for the
 172 173 "Like Cato, gave his little senate laws, "And sat attentive to his own applause." 174
 Mr. Wynn  thought, that though the question now before the House, opened a door for the discussion of the whole subject, regarding the state of the country since last session, yet that, as no one had objected to referring the papers to the committee, it might be convenient to postpone so general a topic to another opportunity. However, as it had been asserted in the course of the debate that no one could retain the same opinion as to the conspiracy since the trials had taken place, he felt himself called upon to state his opinion now of the conduct he pursued in the last session, as far as the grounds of it had been affected by events that had since occurred; and he was free to declare, that his conviction of the necessity of the Suspension act remained unchanged; that it had been confirmed by every thing that passed in the country, and by all the evidence that was disclosed on the trials alluded to; that it had averted threatened danger, and that by it the country had been preserved from confusion. It had been said, that if the ministers had taken advantage of it, they might have prevented the disturbances that broke out in Derbyshire. He had understood an hon. and learned friend to say, that by apprehending the ringleaders of the insurrection in Derbyshire at an earlier period, under the suspension act, the mischief would not have followed; but however that might be, it was not a proper argument against a measure of prevention, that the evil did not occur which it was intended to prevent. If no disturbance had subsequently happened, the preservation of the public tranquillity might be owing to the very cause, the operation of which was attempted to be proved unnecessary, by the existence of that tranquillity which was its effect. It had been said on the trials at Derby, that the prisoners expected co-operation from the north, and from various quarters. He believed that their hopes were not without foundation. He believed, from evidence gained on other trials, and by other means, that bands from Manchester, Yorkshire, and other places, were pre-
 183 184
 Sir John Sebright  said, that after reading the reports of the secret committees of the last session, he at that time felt that the state of the country, as described in those reports, required, in his judgment, the passing of the suspension act. Under that impression he had given the measure his support, being ever determined to strengthen the activity of the executive government, for the purpose of putting down all conspiracies against the peace and tranquillity of the state. But he had that night a duty to himself, to his constituents, and his country, to discharge, in declaring that he was grossly mistaken in the view he had taken of the public danger at the period, and in the necessity for arming ministers with these extraordinary powers. The gentlemen on that side were much mistaken if they believed that he rose for the purpose of abusing the ministers of the Crown. No! He believed that they had no intention to deceive the country, but his conviction was that they were themselves deceived. Every occurrence that had subsequently-transpired had convinced him that there existed no one circumstance to justify the suspension, even for a moment, of that great bulwark of British liberty, the Habeas Corpus act. Evil designing men might have been active in taking advantage of the public distress, but the ordinary laws were fully sufficient to counteract and defeat their efforts. In declaring that opinion he took no credit for himself: it was an imperative duty to the country, to assert that, in his opinion, the coercive measure was not justified by necessity.
 Mr. Ellison  contended, that no one could believe otherwise than that Brandreth had had a gross falsehood imposed on him respecting Oliver, at the time of his examination. That we had been in danger he had no doubt; but thank God, we had subdued it. He could state, from his own experience as a magistrate, that there had been emissaries going about the country, to excite the people to outrages. But he thought that if parliament had not acted as they had done, they would have been guilty of a dereliction of their duty, and if ministers could not make out a good case of justification as to the exercise of the discretionary powers intrusted to them, he would pledge him-
 189
 Mr. Savile  considered the country as much improved since last year, in its commercial, agricultural, and manufacturing interests, but he could not altogether give the ministers credit for its amelioration. The hints, the strong hints, which they had received from parliament, induced them to take the measures of economy and retrenchment which had been so successful. It was the great boast of the country, and the best answer to bold reformers, that such recommendations were sure to have an operative influence on the executive government. So long as ministers attended to the voice of parliament, he would always give them his support. He wished to be considered as an independent man, and when he gave his support to ministers, he gave it on general grounds. He had never desired a place from ministers. He came into parliament perfectly unbiassed, and he should always consider an independent voice in such an assembly as a greater glory than any situation that could be conferred upon him. He had no wish to stand well with ministers. He wished to stand well with the respectable part of mankind in general, for be was not indifferent to the  vox populi.
 Mr. Forbes  said, be did not think that the measures which his majesty's ministers had adopted had been by any means uncalled for or unnecessary, though he considered that some different use might have been made of them. If they had been employed in stopping the proceedings of
 190
 Mr. Canning  said, that the noble lord's name would not appear on the returned list, unless it was the sense of the majority of the House that it ought to be there. What, then, was there extraordinary in the case, but that the minority could not turn round on the decision of the majority of the House. It was the usual custom of parliament to elect such committees by ballot; and if there was any one mode by which the individual dissent of members on an individual name could be more distinctly obtained, it was
 191
 Mr. Bathurst  observed, in explanation, that what he had stated was, that Oliver went down in company with one of the principal conspirators, and by this means became acquainted with the designs that were in agitation among them.
 Mr. Bathurst  observed, that the right hon. gentleman appeared to think the course proposed on this occasion, quite a new mode of proceeding; forgetting, perhaps, that it was precisely the same as that adopted in 1801, with the support of the right hon. gentleman himself, and in opposition to arguments similar to those which the right hon. gentleman had just advanced. It had, indeed, been the usual practice when papers such as those at present on the table were brought down by ministers to have them referred to a secret committee in the manner proposed in this instance. This manner was then quite agreeable to precedent, especially to that of 1801, to which he had just alluded, and which was followed by an act of indemnity. Parliament, in that case, felt as it must always feel, that government acting for the public safety should not be compelled to give up the sources of that secret information which had urged them tem-
 168 169 170
 Mr. Philips  observed, that one of the charges against the disaffected was, that they laboured to bring the House of Commons into contempt; but nothing could so effectually reduce them in the public opinion as the partial election of a tribunal which was constituted for such a purpose as that under consideration. With regard to the assertion, that the suspension act had secured the tranquillity of the country, he was persuaded that that tranquillity had never been disturbed, except
 180 181 182
 Mr. Tierney  wished to know whether any answer would be given to his learned friend's question, for none had yet been given; namely, whether, after the scrutineers made their return from the glasses, there was any mode of submitting a motion on individual names to the sense of the House?
 Mr. Tierney  explained. He had never so reflected on the legal proceedings at Derby as to say that no evidence of criminal proceedings had been produced.
 171
 Mr. Tierney  said, that there could be no objection to refer the papers presented to the House from the Crown to a committee, but he conceived that this was an unheard-of proceeding under all the circumstances of the case, that papers should be sent down to the House by the Crown, without any accompanying message explaining why they were sent, or what they were. Papers had indeed, it was said, been sent down formerly without a message, but this was when proceedings had taken place in a previous part of the session, and papers had been sent down which had reference to those transactions. But the papers had now been sent down at the beginning of a new session, when they had heard no intimation of this proceeding in the speech from the throne—when, from all they knew as individuals, the country was at perfect peace; and from all they heard from men in office, it was in a state of great and increasing prosperity. In all cases in which sealed papers had been presented to the House on former occasions, the assistance of the House was required in some manner—some new measure was proposed to them in their legislative capacities which the prerogative could not reach." But now," said Mr. T. "there comes down without any message, simply a bag. I see that in the votes it is called, 'a bag relating to the internal state of 'the country,' but there is nothing on the outside of it to show this; and I am sure the gentlemen at the table, notwithstanding their acuteness, have not any good reason to call it so, except from something that happened to drop from the noble lord. But as it relates to the in-
 164 primâ facie 165 166 167
 Mr. Brougham,  in explanation, said, he did not name the noble lord invidiously; he merely mentioned him as the only secretary of state in that House. Were lord Sidmouth a member of that House, he would more directly have adverted to him; or had his right hon. relative, connected with the home department, been present, he should have instanced him instead of the noble lord: but the right hon. gentleman must see that, he had not at all met the objection; for, though the noble lord should be returned on the list, such return could only give him a relative majority.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that, passing over the merits of the discussion as to the appointment of the committee at all, and referring merely to the question of form, he wished to ask the noble lord, how it was possible by the usual mode of ballot, to get out of the difficulty that must arise, should the noble lord, as secretary of state, be returned on the list given by the scrutineers after the ballot? Looking, he would say, to the substantial object of impartiality with a view to ultimate indemnity, the noble lord himself must admit, that he ought not to be on that list. As it would be for the committee, probably, to report whether certain individuals should be debarred from bringing their actions at law against persons returned on that list, some of whom had been already perhaps made a party on the record, be was anxious to know, before the question of ballot was put, whether in case of that question being carried, any subsequent mode presented itself of arguing the question as to the individual propriety? According to the mode adopt ed last session, he believed there existed no mode, after the return of the scrutineers, of taking the sense of the House on a separate name.
 Mr. Curwen  said, it was true that his statement did not apply to the year 1817, except by inference; but it related to the last period of which the House bad any accurate financial knowledge. Was he to understand the chancellor of the exchequer, that after payment of the expenses of the year, civil and military, and of the interest of the national debt, there yet remained an overplus of three millions?
 Mr. Curwen  wished to put a question to the chancellor of the exchequer, relative to the statement which he had made last night. He was induced to do so from an examination of the accounts of the year 1816, which exhibited a deficiency so great, notwithstanding its extraordinary
 159 l l l l l l l l l
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  rose to call the attention of the House to a subject which he had much at heart, and which was of great importance to the
 160 161
 Sir W. Burroughs  did not at first intend to have addressed the House on the present occasion, but it appeared to him impossible to sit still while the Suspension act was under discussion, and not to attempt an answer to what had fallen from the hon. and learned member who spoke last. That hon. member thought that subsequent events had completely justified the measure. He (sir W. Burroughs) was of a different opinion, and he would state the grounds of that opinion. Looking at the reports on which the Suspension act was grounded, he found, in the first, that a conspiracy was alleged to have been formed in London to burn the barracks, to storm the Tower, to seize upon the Bank, to destroy the bridges, and in short, to overturn the government, and to subvert the order of society. But what were the facts that appeared on the trial of Watson and the other prisonerstried in Westminster-hall? and how did the evidence given on that occasion support the representations of the secret commit tee? The conspiracy was found to have been formed by two surgeons without employment, a man of broken fortune, two cobblers, and the bully of a brothel. It did not appear that any person of respectability or influence favoured their projects, or partook of their counsels, or that they had any connexion with other conspirators or agitators in the country. Then there followed a second report, which
 185 186 187 ex-parte 188
 Sir S. Romilly  perfectly concurred in opinion with the noble lord that an inquiry was necessary, but he totally differed from him with regard to the nature of it. What prospect could be entertained of any effective inquiry before such a committee as was about to be constituted? The present was, he maintained, quite a new course of proceeding; for there was no instance upon record of the reference of papers to a committee, but with a view to some legislative measure. The noble lord had, however, stated that no legislative measure was in contemplation. What then was the object of this committee? On the first day of the session, immediately after the speech of the lords commissioners representing the Crown, who stated that tranquillity was restored and that nothing more was wanting to maintain it, than the vigilance of the magistrates, it was declared by ministers, that they meant to remove the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act. All the prisoners arrested under that suspension were liberated, and they were discharged, even from their recognizances on the motion of the attorney-general. Therefore no danger could be apprehended by ministers; and what then was the purpose of this committee? Why, solely to procure a report in defence of ministers, with the recommendation of an act of indemnity; which it was felt must necessarily be preceded by at least the appearance of inquiry in the present state of public opinion. He would be surprised at such a proceeding, if any thing on the part of ministers could excite his surprise. To-day the noble lord had observed that the proposition of a bill of indemnity was naturally expected to follow the report of the proposed committee, and yet when the act for suspending the Habeas Corpus act was brought forward, the noble lord declared that ministers would accept with reluctance the painful responsibility which the enactment of that measure Would impose upon them, while during the existence of the suspension the noble lord and
 175 176 177 178 179
 Lord Castlereagh  apprehended that this
 201
 Lord Folkestone  presented a Petition from John Knight of Manchester, setting forth; 193 i.e. 194 195 l l 196 197
 Lord Folkestone  also presented a petition from Samuel Haynes of Nottingham; setting forth, 198 199 200
 Lord Castlereagh  moved the order of the day for the balloting for the Secret Committee, to which the papers on the internal state of the country were to be referred.
 Lord Castlereagh  observed, that if the proposition of the learned gentleman were admitted, namely, that because he was a minister, he ought not to become a mem-ber of this committee, he wished to know to what functions he was competent in that House? For were he precluded from giving an opinion, or promoting an inquiry, upon any question in which the administration of the government was concerned, he hardly knew what business he could have to transact in parliament.
 Mr. Canning  said, that if it were necessary to take any step with respect to the list, there was one obvious course for the House to adopt. They could insist that any member, not prevented by a physical impossibility, should do his duty. For his own part, he should protest against the adoption of any other step.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had already informed the House that it was not his intention to propose, at this early period of the session, the grant of any other sums than the taxes which the House had been in the habit of granting from year to year, for a great length of time back, and a grant of Exchequer Bills to replace other Exchequer Bills now outstanding. The House would recollect, that in a committee of supply, they had lately voted 24 millions to make good exchequer bills issued last session, and outstanding and unprovided for; nine millions to make good other exchequer bills, also issued last session, and outstanding and unprovided for: and six millions to pay off the loan of the Bank to the government in 1816. He should now, however, merely propose the grant of the land and malt tax, and an issue of 30 millions to replace the above 24 millions of outstanding exchequer bills, and to pay off the loan from the Bank in 1816, of six millions. It would not be necessary to trouble them with any other vote till a later period of the session, when all the different services would be before the House. He concluded with moving resolutions to the above effect.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  understood the question of the right hon. gen-
 206
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that he had no objection to reply most explicitly to the question of the right hon. gentleman, and he was ready to admit that the House and the public were entitled to the fullest information which it was in his power and consistent with his duty to afford. With regard to the immediate subject of the right hon. gentleman's inquiry, he had not the smallest hesitation in declaring, that it was the intention of his majesty's ministers that the repayment to the Bank of the loan of six millions should be made in money, and not in exchequer bills [Hear, hear!]. Upon the other more-general subject which had been adverted to, although not now before the House, he was desirous of making one or two observations. If it should become necessary to propose to parliament the postponement of the resumption of cash payments, it would not be from any purpose of consulting the convenience of government, but would be submitted on grounds perfectly distinct. He could not agree that it was desirable at the present moment to reduce the issues of the notes of the Bank of England; and he considered the repayment of the six millions in money as expedient, not to enable the Bank to lessen their paper in that proportion, which appeared to be the view of the right hon. gentleman, but to enable them to extend accommodation to trade, and to support the commercial interests of the country. It was upon this consideration that he should probably feel it his duty to propose some arrangement for the final repayment of this loan. Much had been already saved by the arrangement made originally, and the present rate of interest would cause a saving to the country of not less than one million out of the six millions composing the loan. The right hon. gentleman, he believed, had done no more than justice to the Bank, in expressing his conviction that they were sincerely desirous of resuming their ordinary course of payments; but the interests of the public, and the security of commerce, might, in a particular state of things, form a very reasonable ground for the interference of parliament, to delay the period at which that resumption should take place. The subject was not, however, now under consideration, and he should not, therefore, enter into any argument upon the different points involved in it
 209
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that he had no difficulty in stating that the debts alluded to in the treaties of 1814 and 15, stood upon particular grounds, and that therefore they formed the subject of a special provision in those treaties. By the treaty with France in 1787, it was covenanted, that in the event of war, every British subject should be allowed one year for the removal of his property from that country, and it was in direct violation of this treaty that the debts alluded to were contracted. Therefore it was pledged by the treaty of Amiens, that those debts should be paid by the French government. The treaties, then, of 1814 and 15, only provided for that which originated with the treaty of 1787, and was sanctioned by the treaty of Amiens. Those claims were indeed of such a nature, that if provision were not made to secure their liquidation, the government which concluded the treaty of 1787, would be exposed to the charge of having entrapped British subjects to invest their property in France. But this formed a special case, and afforded no encouragement to British subjects to vest their property in foreign funds. He was ready, then, to go along with the hon. gentleman, that those who should make such investments had no claim whatever upon the British government, and that in the event of any war, or on the conclusion of any peace, no such transactions would be entitled to the consideration of the British government. It would, indeed, be an extraordinary principle to admit that the government of any nation should have its faith pledged, or its operations regulated, by the spontaneous transactions of individuals.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, he did not rise with a view to press the discussion of a question which could not, indeed, be fairly or fully entered into until his right hon. friend should bring forward the measure which would naturally raise that discussion. But in reference to some observations which had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, he thought it proper to assure the right hon. gentleman, as well as the House, that it was the anxious wish of his majesty's ministers that the Bank should resume its payments in cash, and that the country should return to its ordinary and wholesome circulation. But looking to the subject in the view taken by the right hon. gentleman himself, he would ask, whether it could be the wish of that right hon. gentleman, or of any of those who thought with him, to place the Bank, by a premature removal of the restriction, in such a predicament as might
 212 213
 Mr. Tierney  thought the right hon. gentleman's explanation perfectly satisfactory as far as related to the repayment of the six millions in money to the Bank because it would enable the Bank to do what in his opinion they ought to do—reduce the amount of their issues; but he had witnessed, with great dismay, the sort of levity with which the right hon. gentleman treated the very serious question whether the Bank was to return to its regular payments this year or the next. He was glad to hear that it was not the convenience of government which it was intended to consult; but that the understood ground upon which the House might expect, that some measure for extending the time at which the currency was to be restored to its proper state, would be proposed, was, that great loans were to be advanced by individuals in this country to foreign powers. The nature of these loans was no secret to any body: and could the right hon. gentleman entertain a doubt that the money of which they consisted was at the present moment going out of the country, or that the contractors were not already availing themselves of the high price of stocks, in order to make large remittances at the most favourable rate? Without mentioning names, he might allude, by way of example, to a certain individual, with whom he had no doubt the right hon. gentleman was extremely well acquainted, and who would scarcely suffer the present opportunity to pass by him unobserved. He apprehended that this course of things would continue to go on, and that before the five months which still remained previous to the expiration of the present restriction had elapsed, the whole amount of the loans might be transferred. In that case, to postpone the resumption would be to provide against a danger that no longer existed. The right hon. gentleman shook his head; it was possible that the right hon. gentleman might be right, and that he himself might be deceived; but to take an instance which was notorious—the loan of three millions to Prussia—were he one of the lenders, he should be
 210
 Mr. Tierney  wished to know whether it was intended to pay off the loan from the Bank in money, or with exchequer bills? The Bank would be precisely as they were now if they took exchequer bills. There was not any difference as to what the public derived from the Bank. The public gained merely by the difference between four per cent interest and the rate of interest on the exchequer bills. He was happy to see an hon. gentleman connected with the Bank in his place. He wished to inform him and the House, that from that day forward his object would be, to endeavour to ascertain what particular steps the Bank was taking to enable it to resume payments in cash. He was to presume this fact, that for any thing the Bank knew, cash payments might be resumed at the time specified in the act of parliament. Now, it appeared that no step had been taken for this purpose, but one, a very material one no doubt—the preparing themselves with gold. But if this was brought about by increased issues, then he denied that any preparation at all was made. He observed a smile upon the countenance of a number of gentlemen, some of them not very remarkable for their attention to, or knowledge of, financial subjects. The smile of these gentlemen seemed to say —What better preparation can you have than gold? He would tell them a much better—a reduction of the issues. This was the only thing that would look like sincerity on the part of the Bank. With respect to the payment of the Bank loan, if it was in exchequer bills, the only change would be a reduction of interest. Of this reduction he was still glad; but nothing would be done to enable the Bank to resume its payments, if it took payment in exchequer bills. He [wished to ask, whether any arrangement had been come to with the Bank, as to the mode of payment? He had a high opinion of the honour and character of the Bank. The first effect of the payment in money would be the Bank's not reissuing the notes paid in. But if the payment was to be in exchequer bills, the Bank could not draw in its issues. IF the debt to the Bank were paid, it would always be in the power of the Bank to
 207 208
 Mr. Tierney  said, it was desirable to know whether the 30 millions would be enough to cover the expenses of the public service, so that no farther application for money would be required before Easter. With respect to the amount for exchequer-bills, it was for services voted, and for other purposes. Bills outstanding and unprovided for were to be paid off; but if such bills came in, he wished to know whether they would absorb the sum proposed. Would the grant, when added to the land and malt be found sufficient for the purpose?
 Mr. Tierney  said, that in ballotting for the Secret committee, they would have very little trouble, as the lists were all prepared by ministers themselves. He hoped, however, that no gentleman would be named who was not in the habit of attending the House, and on whose attendance in the committee they might therefore calculate.
 Mr. Brougham  rose, and disclaiming any thing invidious, protested against the attempt to constitute the noble lord a judge upon this question, whether the noble lord himself and his colleagues had behaved improperly towards individuals, who had perhaps already commenced actions against ministers, for depriving them of liberty, and stigmatizing their characters.
 Mr. Brougham  referred to the noble lord's objection to the proposition for substituting another name for that of lord G. Cavendish, and asked how the House would proceed, in case persons were chosen by ballot to any committee who could not possibly attend? The House would, in such a case, no doubt, help itself out of the difficulty, by renewing the ballot; and as to nomination, he called to the recollection of the House, that the last committee of last session was chosen by nomination, and not by ballot. So much for precedent. But to return to the selection of a person by ballot, who was physically incapable of attendance, it appeared that  pro tanto, 202
 Mr. Hammersley  expressed a hope that ministers would not be found to have any intention of giving any encouragement to the proposed loans to foreign states, or to the investment of British capital in foreign funds. He was sorry to understand that such encouragement was inferred from certain provisions in the treaties of 1814 and 1815, as he himself had calculated at the time those treaties were concluded; he meant with regard to the reimbursement of British subjects who had lost the property they had vested in the French funds. A distinct declaration from the noble lords upon this subject, would be of considerable utility, especially if minis-
 214
 Mr. Hammersley  expressed himself perfectly satisfied by the declaration of the
 215
 Mr. Calcraft  thought, that without contradicting the orders of the House, it might be regular to fill up the places of the persons who it was supposed, would not attend. He wished to say a word or two with regard to the appointment of a committee by ballot. Of that method he could safely say, that the influence of ministers by means of it was greater than by any other mode. He had himself been a scrutineer upon the appointment of this committee by that method. He did not suppose there was any thing secret in what he was saying, but if there was he would not proceed. [Cries of No ! no.] He had not been sworn when he was appointed a scrutineer. There wore, upon this occasion, 108 persons who had put lists into the glass, and amongst those there were 97 not only identically the same, but in the same hand-writing. Whose hand it was, or whence the lists came, he would not presume to offer a conjecture. But if his hon. friend had considered for a moment, he was persuaded he would have inferred, that the quarter whence they came was not very doubtful. He thought some steps might be taken to supply the places of those gentlemen who would not attend, though he should be the last man to propose any member in the place of his noble friend; for he thought he was one of the best persons in that House to become a member of such a committee.
 Mr. F. Lewis  said, he must avow himself to be extremely anxious to see the circulating medium of the country replaced as soon as possible on its only secure basis. The facts which had come with in his own knowledge had convinced him, that if there was any difficulty or inconvenience in resuming our ancient and natural currency, those difficulties would be enhanced, and not diminished, by any additional delay. In the discussion of this subject, he feared the operation of the country banks was not in general sufficiently attended to. It was not easy to discover the causes which regulated the extent of their issues. It would, however, be found, upon inquiry, that in as short a period as two years and a half twenty-five millions of country bank notes had been withdrawn from circulation. He would leave it to the House to judge of the effect which this must have produced upon individual credit, and upon all the transactions arising out of the internal commerce of the country. He called upon every member of the House to inquire in his own district and neighbourhood, and he would venture to say, that the result of that inquiry would correspond with his own, and would show that the paper so suddenly withdrawn
 211
 Sir W. Burroughs  maintained, that there might be a parliamentary disqualification to exclude a member from serving on such a committee. The case of the noble lord was one of those; there could be no reason why he should sit as judge of his own acts. The precedent just alluded to established this principle, that the House might review the ballot, in order to correct its own proceeding where it might be wrong. He begged to remind the House of the motion made by the noble lord yesterday, which determined that the committee should consist of 21 members. Suppose, then, that lord G. Cavendish could not attend, would not that vote be defeated? Suppose sir A. Piggott was also to absent himself, could it be said that the House was not competent to supply his place? In the last session, the name of the present solicitor-general was added to the committee. It would be desirable to know whether lord G. Cavendish was absent at the time he was nominated, or whether he had since left town. Perhaps the best course they could adopt, under the circumstances, would be to postpone the meeting of the committee until the noble lord could be personally present, as there was no urgent necessity for their meeting immediately. He trusted some steps would be taken to remedy so great an abuse as the appointment of a committee by ballot, which was the worst mode that could be employed. Had they been elected by nomination, the choice would then have been made from the members who were present, and the inconvenience now experienced would have been avoided.
 Mr. Wilberforce  said, that if any member who had a list given him, thought any one was not a fit person for such a
 204
 Mr. Wilberforce  thought it desirable, if any member returned upon the ballot was unable to attend, that another should be substituted for him, if such substitution could be made consistently with the usages of the House. To the principle of ballot he declared himself an advocate, because it afforded the best chance of escaping the influence of party, and of producing a fair selection. But even upon ballot, there must be some previous understanding in the House as to who were to be chosen, for otherwise the votes of many members must be entirely thrown away.
 The Speaker  stated, that with respect to the proposition for the substitution of one name for another, he believed there
 203
 The Speaker  quoted the case of sir Joseph Jekyll, who was chosen by ballot to serve on a committee. An objection was made to his appointment, on the ground that he had not taken the usual oaths at the clerk's table, but the House, on a division, decided that he was qualified, and refused to substitute another name.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  begged to assure the House, that the absence of lord G. Cavendish was by no means voluntary. It was certainly not his own wish, but a real necessity that compelled his absence.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  remarked, that his noble friend, lord George Cavendish, was at a considerable distance from town, and under such circumstances made it impossible for him to attend. He wished to know whether there would be any objection felt to the nomination of Mr. Tierney in his place.
 Mr. Bennet  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill for the better regulation of Chimney Sweepers and their Apprentices. It was the object of this bill to put an end to the evil so long, so universally, and so justly complained of, as to the use, or rather abuse, of young children in sweeping chimnies. He felt it unnecessary to enter into any detail upon this subject, as the sufferings endured, and the cruelties inflicted, through the practice alluded to, were so fully described in the evidence taken before the committee of the last session, from which committee this bill emanated. The bill was indeed a transcript of that which he had brought forward last year, with the exception only of that provision which related to the total and prompt abolition of the use of climbing boys, and which provision, perhaps, prevented the bill from being carried. He was happy to say that since last year the desire to abolish this odious practice had been expressed at public meetings in all the great towns throughout the country; those meetings unanimously adopting resolutions that the employment of climbing boys ought not to be any longer tolerated, especially as a mechanical instrument was found efficient for the purpose. But who could dissent from these resolutions that had any knowledge of the effects of this barbarous system? Within even the last year, no less than five fatal instances had occurred to show its character. One of these instances in England, and another in Scotland had been attended with circumstances of peculiarly aggravated cruelty. But the masters, or properly speaking, the owners of the unfortunate children employed in this business were rarely susceptible of the common feelings of humanity; but, even if they were, it would be impossible to have the business done without a sacrifice of those feelings. For, from the manner in which chimneys were constructed, especially in London, where with
 217
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that in introducing the Treaty to the attention of the House, and in proposing a resolution which should carry its purposes into effect, he could not avoid calling to their recollection their own recommendation to the throne at the end of the last session. It was in strict conformity to that recommendation that those treaties were framed; and he felt confident that the House would be satisfied of
 233 234 235 236 237 238 239 l 240 l l ‡ 241 l 242 243 l 244
 Sir Gilbert Heathcote,  much as he sympathized in the deplorable situation of those whom it was intended to rescue from slavery and suffering by the measure under consideration, could not help regretting that a vote for so considerable a sum of money should be proposed by the noble lord at such a period. He could not but reflect in what a condition many of his fellow-countrymen were at that moment, and how much might be done for them by the money that was now proposed to be granted to a foreign court; and to a court, and when he said it, he did not mean to offend any party, to say nothing more of it, which was not the most popular in Europe. He was of opinion that the 400,000 l l 245 l l 246 l
 Lord Castlereagh,  in explanation, said that Spain was under no pledge of the nature alluded to by the hon. baronet. The Spanish minister had stated eight years as the period when his Catholic Majesty might find it convenient to enter into arrangements with a view to the abolition of the slave trade, but there was no positive engagement which pledged the Spanish nation to the discontinuance of the traffic at the expiration of eight years. He (the noble lord) attached far more consequence to the articles of regulation in the present treaty than to the formal concurrence of Spain in the abolition.
 Mr. C. Grant jun.  said, he felt satisfaction at the judgment adverted to by his hon. and learned friend, but did not see how it could be mistaken. The property of Spaniards in slaves, under any flag,
 255 256
 Mr. Bennet  said, there was no person who felt more deeply than he did the calamity under which this country suffered from the heavy load of taxation under which it laboured; yet he believed, that if they went from house to house, they would have no difficulty in raising a contribution for the purpose of putting down this traffic. He begged the House to recollect, that in about a month after the battle by which the Bourbons were placed on the throne, at the expense of British blood, it was signified by the French minister to our own, that as far as France was concerned, the traffic had ceased every where, and for ever. It being discovered in this country, that it was still carried on by France with great vigour, another application was made by sir Charles Stewart, requiring to know what steps had been taken to carry the abolition into effect? The answer was, that some colonial regulation had taken place; but it had subsequently come out in court, that no such order or regulation as was intimated had ever been issued. It made no difference that the trade was not carried on in British vessels, if it was carried on by British capital. An active trade in slaves was well known to have been carried on, up to a very recent period, by French subjects. Since the delivery of Senegal to France, the trade had revived in that part of Africa, and had given rise to all those evils with which it was formerly attended. It had armed nation against nation—tribe against tribe. The kings stripped their villages, to send their people down to the French traders; and those traders were throwing the settlements into that state of misery, distress, and wretchedness in which they had been antecedent to the time when they were rescued from it by the abolition. He
 257
 Lord Castlereagh  could not help thinking, that the language of the hon. gentleman, if he was a sincere well-wisher to the cause of the abolition, was not calculated to promote that object; for, if any thing was more calculated than another to discourage the French government from making exertions in the cause of the abolition, it was precisely such language as he had held. He was not French lawyer enough to know what hold the principles of a treaty between the French government and another power had on French subjects, without the authority of a law of the country to give effect to them. This, however, he could say, that no engagement could have recorded in more explicit and comprehensive terms the abolition of the slave trade on the part of France. To his certain knowledge, the French government had immediately acted on the treaty, and sent dispatches to the different ports for the purpose of securing its execution. He could state also that he knew the governor of the island of Bourbon had actually been displaced by the French government for allowing the crime of slave dealing in that colony.
 258
 Mr. Gordon  considered the right of search a very great advantage gained by the present treaty. He was aware that. 400,000 l l 259
 Mr. Marryat  stated, that many vessels belonging to subjects of Spain and Portugal, engaged in the slave trade, had been in time of peace captured by our cruizers, without any treaty to warrant such a proceeding, and condemned in our courts. The value of the slaves per head, of which they were so deprived, might be calculated at 350 dollars. They had not prosecuted their claims, and the bounty money had been paid to the captors. If they had prosecuted their claims, the sum which these persons would have had to receive would have amounted to much more than the sum stipulated in this treaty. With respect to the objection, that this money might possibly be applied towards carrying on hostilities against South America, they were to consider whether the possible chances of such misapplication ought to outweigh the positive advantages which we gained by this treaty, which, coupled with the treaty which was understood to be concluded at the same time with Portugal, would put the abolition hereafter in our own power. With respect to the appointment of commissioners on the coast of Africa and in the Spanish settlements, for the settlement of differences under this treaty, notwithstanding all the partiality of the member for Bramber, for Sierra Leone, from its geographical position, he conceived it was ill adapted for a situation for commissioners, from its being a great distance directly to the windward of the places where the slave traders principally resorted. He had the authority of sir James Yeo, for saying, that it took frequently ten weeks in beating up to Sierra Leone, and during such a length of time, the mortality in the vessels must be very great. With respect to the conduct of the French government, he could only say, that at Martinique, he had made it his business to inquire into the subject, and he found at that colony, that as soon as could be expected after the treaty, instructions had been sent out in a man of war to Martinique, and from the day of its arrival no vessels had cleared out from the custom-house of Martinique for the purpose of engaging in the slave trade, He thought there was no good ground for accusing the French court of insincerity.
 Mr. Philips  stated, that during the absence, and at the desire of his noble friend, the member for Lancashire, he had a Petition to present from certain merchants, manufacturers and others, inhabitants of Manchester, Salford, and the neighbourhood. The petition stated, 218 219 220 221 222
 Mr. Philips  then observed, that it must be obvious that he could not pledge himself to the accuracy of the facts referred to in the petition, and on which it was founded, but he was informed that they had been most diligently and cautiously investigated by some of the persons who had signed it, and particularly by one gentleman, known to him to be a man- of intelligence and active benevolence. His own opinion was, that the facts would be proved, on investigation, to be such as they had been reported to him. Before he proceeded to a detail, which he feared would be tiresome to the House, he wished to say that he did not at all mean to reflect on the intentions of the magistrates or municipal officers of Manchester. If they had been instrumental in deluding ministers, and through them the House and the country in general, it was because they had been first deluded themselves; for he had no doubt that they sincerely believed in the representations which they had made. He conceived them to have been deluded by their own spies and informers, and those of the government. The utmost that he had ever said on this subject was, that if the poor people were liable to delusion from their own prejudices on the one hand, magistrates who were treasurers, or zealous supporters of Orange lodges and societies, could not be considered as exempted from the delusion of their own prejudices, on the other hand. He deprecated strongly the encouragement given to such associations, the tendency of which could only be to inflame religious and political animosities, to call into exercise the worst passions of our nature, and to make one class of his majesty's subjects hate and persecute another.—The hon. member here stated, that there had been several meetings, more or less numerous in Manchester and the neighbourhood, before that of the 10th of March (familiarly called the "Blanketeer Meeting"), for preparing resolutions and petitions on the subject of a reform of the representation. These meetings had been very peaceably conducted. To show that the poor people really meant what they professed, namely, to petition for a reform of parliament, with which they had been
 223 ‡ 224 225 226 s. d. 227 228 229 230 231 first 232
 Sir W. Burroughs  observed, that the sum which we had stipulated to pay, under this treaty, was nothing more than an act of justice to Spain. Many ships had been employed in time of peace, and it was perfectly clear that we could not be warranted in capturing any vessel because it was engaged in the slave-trade, unless there existed a previous treaty on that subject. This country was bound to make a compensation; and, therefore, on a calculation that there were 5,000 slaves on board these vessels, and valuing them at 75 l l
 Mr. Wilberforce  confessed his surprise at the observations of the hon. baronet. He was persuaded that the House would think that the sum of 400,000 l l l l 247 248
 Mr. Wilberforce  stated, that he had no
 260
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, that he should have contented himself with a silent vote, and have willingly rested the justification of the treaty on the persuasive and affecting appeal of his hon. friend, the member for Bramber, if he had not been called upon to state the grounds of his approbation by the opposition of two respectable and independent gentlemen to a mea-
 251 252 253 254
 Sir Oswald Mosley  observed, that it was not for us to teach Spain humanity.
 Sir Oswald Mosley  looked on the hon. gentleman who had just sat down as the saviour of the African slave; and it was therefore very painful to him indeed to say any thing against what the hon. gentleman advanced on such a question. But, under the existing circumstances of the country, it was of the utmost importance that when they were about to vote away a large sum of the public money, they should consider well the purpose to
 249 250
 Sir W. Curds  said, that the petition alluded to contained an ample explanation of these grounds. The fact was, that the erection and alteration of the new prison for debtors had cost no less than 130,000 l l 261
 Mr. Bennet  said, that upon this subject it was necessary that the House should consider, first, the propriety of granting the money required, and secondly, the manner in which that money was to be applied. He was enabled from personal observation to say, that of all the gaols in England, that in White cross-street was the most unfit for its object, and the most incommodious for the prisoners, while it was by far the most expensive in its construction. It was only necessary to examine this clumsy edifice to be satisfied of the fact; for would it be believed, that a prison intended for the accommodation of hundreds of prisoners, was not even fire-proof? He had the honour of being a member of the committee of that House, which visited this prison, and recommended certain alterations, but those alterations could not require such a sum as the hon. baronet alluded to. The hon. baronet had remarked, that those who did not think proper to contribute to the sum proposed to be raised, might go elsewhere than the port of London for coals. This, he thought a very extraordinary remark, especially considering the number of comparatively useless turnpikes which had been already erected upon the Thames. He alluded to the new locks, many of which were mere jobs; for although those locks professed to have in view the security of the navigation and trade of the river, it was a fact, that no one who had a barge of coals to convey, could deem it safe from robbery, without employing persons for its special protection. The city of London had, it was known, been profuse in the expenditure of its
 262
 Mr. Alderman Wood  observed, that he had often been in company with his hon. friend in the prisons of London, but he must say, that he had never heard his hon. friend point out such faults as he had that night alluded to. With regard to the prison in White cross-street, he was enabled to state, that it stood upon as much ground as any prison in London. The yards were all spacious, and the apartments as commodious as could be reasonably desired in such a building. But he wished that this, as well as the other city prisons, were examined by a committee of that House, in order to prove the justice of his representation. It was known that at the White cross-street prison, to which his hon. friend particularly alluded, the prisoners were accommodated with coals, bread, meat and bedding, without any expense, and he apprehended that no such accommodation was afforded to debtors in any other prison in Great Britain. This prison was originally intended for the accommodation of 544 prisoners, and it occupied, including the outer walls, about an acre of ground. Yet, in consequence of a recommendation from the committee of that House, the city committee for superintending the construction of the prison, bought some more ground, at an expense of 17,000 l 264 l l
 Sir Robert Peel  rose to present a Petition from the Cotton Spinners of Manchester—a numerous class of men, who had rendered as great service to the country by their industry and skill, as any body of persons of the same order in society. The petitioners had come to him most unexpectedly, but he felt that they were entitled to his peculiar attention. They were aware that the attainment of the object of the petition must be attended with a reduction of their wages; but anxious for health, and in order to enjoy some of the comforts of life, they were willing to submit to that sacrifice. He had had a communication with some of those poor men this morning; and he declared he could not hear their statement, or witness their appearance, which confirmed that statement, without shedding tears [Hear, hear!]. As the House valued the trade of the country it could not fail to feel for the sufferings and consider the interests of those by whom that trade was sustained. How, then, would the gentlemen who heard him
 265
 Mr. Gordon  expressed his surprise at what he had heard from his hon. friend. The children in the manufactories were certainly overworked, and that had appeared from the report of a committee appointed to inquire into the subject. If the children were kept at work from six in the morning till eight in the evening, with hardly any time to take their food, except as they passed from one room to another, they must certainly be overworked; and yet such was the fact. Many of the children also began to work at the age of six. The present petition had been signed by the parents of many of the children, who were anxious for a diminution of labour, even though accompanied with a reduction of wages. In a Sunday school, out of several hundred children, it was easy to distinguish those who were employed in manufactories. It was then honourable to the feelings of the hon. baronet to bring this question before the House. He was for such conduct, entitled, not only to the gratitude of the poor petitioners, but to the benediction of all good men. When a gentleman who had realized a large fortune in trade, thus stood forward to extend paternal protection to those who had contributed to his wealth, he could not fail to meet, as he merited, the universal thanks of his countrymen [Hear, hear!].
 Sir R. Peel  thought the hon. gentleman had travelled out of the question for the purpose of making an attack upon him. Previously to any regulation having been made as to the employment of persons in the different manufactories, his establishments were as faulty as those of any other person, but when such regulation was proposed, he perceived, with surprise, the former injurious mode of regulating them, and was most anxious to concur in the proposed remedy. Me thought an application to parliament the best way by which a remedy could be procured, and that application was accordingly made. He should observe, in reply to what had been said by the hon. member, that his (Mr. Philips's) manufactories were as badly regulated previous to the late improvement, as those of any other person whatever.
 Mr. Shaw  observed, that two years ago, when he visited the manufactories of I Philips, he was pleased at seeing that all the children employed there were of the healthiest and soundest appearance. He hoped the House would examine strictly and personally into the statements on which the petition was grounded, before they interfered in so important a question as that of lowering the wages of a numerous class of society.
 The Lord Advocate  said, he rose to take the earliest opportunity of meeting the charges which the noble lord had brought
 284 corpus delicti corpus delicti 285 personali exceptione, 286 287 288 ‡ 289 290 291 bona fide 292 in memoriam rei. 293 socius criminis 294 socius criminis, 295 296 297
 Sir Archibald Colquhoun  said, he had never witnessed charges more completely ill-founded than those which were advanced in support of the motion before the House. He distinctly asserted, that there was not a shadow of foundation for the charges this night produced: he denied that they were charges—they scarcely deserved so grave an appellation, since they rested upon bare assertion or distorted proof. The hon. and learned member who spoke last had even gone beyond the noble lord with whom the motion originated, and had brought forward written opinions, upon which he intended to overthrow the established law of Scotland. He had termed the noble and learned lord (the lord advocate), and his coadjutors, unfortunate gentlemen, and had affected to lament an unlucky dereliction of their duty. He could confidently ask the hon. and learned gentleman whether he did not know that Mr. Drummond, one of the persons accused by Campbell, was a gentleman who was held in high estimation, who had met the approbation of every judge in the court of justiciary, and whose honour was as unsullied as his talents were splendid? Could the hon. and lenrned gentleman deny this fact? The deposition of Campbell contained numerous contradictions. He asserted that Mr. Drummond had offered him the place of a gauger; though at the time, he said Mr. Drummond was persuaded that his life was in danger, and that he could not remain in safety in the kingdom. The witness had said, that Mr. Drummond believed that he could not remain safely in Glasgow, or in any other place. The deposition thus bore internal evidence of its own falsehood. Campbell said, that Mr. Drummond had offered him the place of a ganger, and promised to write to lord Sidmouth on the subject; that at a subsequent interview, he (Campbell) asked Mr. Drummond whether he had written to lord Sidmouth? And he said that he had not, as Campbell had refused the place. He contended that this fact was inconsistent with the belief with which Mr. Drummond was impressed, that Campbell's life was in danger in any part of the kingdom.
 bacco, out of his window, to another prisoner, who was walking on the terrace before the windows of the rooms they were confined in; and that prisoner found means to send it to one of the counsel. 315 socius criminis 316
 Mr. Wynn  declared, that if it had been necessary to enter into a discussion respecting the intricacies of the law of Scotland, he should not have troubled the House; but he thought the question might be decided without much knowledge on that subject. If the question was for an address to remove the advocate depute from his office, the observations which had been made by the hon. and learned gentleman as to the credibility of the witness Campbell, would forcibly apply. But the question was to obtain information on this extraordinary case. It had often happened that a witness adduced by the crown, out of favour to the prisoners had, when produced in court, stated what he was not expected to state—sometimes truly, sometimes falsely. An instance of this sort had occurred on the occasion of the trials for treason in Lancashire and Cheshire in 1693, when much of the case for the Crown rested on the evidence of a man of the name of Lunt, who, when he was brought into court, stated directly the reverse of what he had formerly deposed, so that the counsel for the Crown had nothing to do but to fold up their briefs, and submit to a verdict of Not-guilty. But in that case did not the House call for an inquiry? On the second day after the next meeting of parliament, the House of Commons sent for witnesses on this subject, and after investigation, declared, that there was good ground for those trials. The present motion was for a similar inquiry, and in his opinion, on grounds equally strong. An hon. and learned gentleman had stated, that in the deposition of Campbell there was convincing evidence of falsehood. He (Mr. Wynn) had just looked at a copy of the trial, which was said to have been formed of the proof sheets of the shorthand writer, and it
 317 primâ facie
 Lord Castlereagh  did not think any thing had transpired that ought to induce the House to enter into any proceedings on the subject. Notwithstanding all that had been said, and the industry displayed to bring the conduct of the learned lord and his colleagues into discredit, there did not appear to him that there were any sufficient grounds of inquiry made out. He saw nothing to warrant any motion on the case; and he trusted the House would agree with him in thinking that there was nothing so novel in the circumstances of the case before them, as to warrant a call for the record. Did they wish to look into it to see if the officer of the Crown had been authorized in his proceedings? He apprehended there could be nothing in it to show that he had not been justified in instituting this prosecution. This must be the conviction of every fair and unbiassed mind; it was established by the proceedings on the bench, and indeed the whole course of the proceedings went to prove the fact that a conspiracy of an extended nature did exist in the neighbourhood of Glasgow, where persons were bound together by secret oaths. Therefore, unless the purpose was either to punish Campbell for perjury, or to prosecute the lord advocate for the important steps he had taken, there could be no reason whatever for calling for the record. Campbell's evidence had been considered by the court absolutely so incredible, that it could not be entertained in any court of law whatever.—And because this man's evidence was considered totally tin-worthy of credence in a court of justice, was it to be deemed worthy of credit in parliament, and made use of there because it could be used no where else? Then, if Campbell's evidence was not to be believed, what evidence did the noble lord, and those who supported the noble lord's motion, think the record would furnish? He apprehended that the only point that could be brought against him was that which admitted of no evidence in proof—the conversation between him and the officer, when no other person was present.—Therefore, the question of perjury was only the imputing of an offence which was placed beyond the reach of a tribunal below. To suppose that the lord advocate was making any offer not fully justified by morality and law was absurd; for so far from concealment, there was nothing in the transaction but what was the very reverse. No inference contrary
 319
 The Lord Advocate,  in answer to the allegation of the offer of money, or a place in the excise, to be given to Campbell, affirmed, that he had stated that no such offer had been made, and that it had been impossible to make it. He had never said that entering on the inquiry would prevent an action being brought against himself, but that it would be unnecessary to go into the inquiry while such actions could be brought. As to the matter of access, it had been allowed by the court that all facility had been afforded the prisoners.
 Mr. V. Fitzgerald  quoted the opinion of lord Gillies as to the disqualification of Campbell. That learned judge had stated Campbell to be disqualified in every point of view, and lord Hermand had said, that Campbell could not be received as a witness, whether true or not. The learned lord had not said that the words of the verdict, "not proven," had proved the truth of the facts, but only that there was a wide difference betwixt the verdict of not proven and not guilty. The lord advocate performed the duty of grand inquest in Scotland, and his functions differed materially from those of the attorney general in this country. Upon the evidence of such a man as Campbell, no man of honour ought to be put upon his trial, and he therefore felt it his duty to give his negative to the motion.
 The Lord Advocate  said, that the report from which he had quoted was that of the authorized notes taken of the trial; and that the reason which occasioned the delay of that publication was simply this—that although the note-taker had sent copies of his notes to the counsel for the prisoner, for their revision, so far back as August last, they had not returned them corrected until January last, while in the interim an unauthorized report of the trial had been widely circulated. But this report was now published, and he was authorized to say that the judges had revised their own speeches.
 The Attorney General  thought it necessary to correct an expression that had been imputed to him, as if he had said that he could not defend the conduct of the learned lord. After reading the case through with great attention, he could not see it in the light that the learned gentleman had done; but he thought he clearly saw in the account of that Campbell, the artful story of a cunning and designing man, who knew how to disqualify himself where he did not choose to give evidence. His learned friend had stated, that Mr. Home Drummond and the noble lord would be equally liable with any one else to give their testimony where the justice of a case required it. He knew it well; but he also knew that it did not follow, because a witness stated upon oath transactions which, if true, constituted an attack upon the character of an individual, that that individual should be the subject of inquiry in the House, or in any other court. Before the House agreed to this, they must conclude, on a consideration of all the circumstances, that there was ground for a serious charge against the lord advocate; because the question was not, whether the House should have the record on the table, that they might there read what they knew equally well from other quarters; but truly, whether there was matter to satisfy them that there was ground of charge against the lord advocate. A comparison had been made between the office he so unworthily held, and that filled by the lord advocate; but all the differences between them had not been fully stated. With respect to inquiries made previous to trial, and functions that formed a duty of police, they certainly differed very materially. But when the learned gentleman, deprecating a communication between the Crown and its witnesses, had represented him to say, that he would not on any account communicate with his witnesses, the learned gentleman had fallen into an error, for he (the attorney general) must communicate with his witnesses—must be informed what they had to allege—or he could not know with safety when to prosecute or when to abstain. He had not said, that he never communicated with witnesses: he had only said he never communicated personally; other communication he must have, or he
 326 327
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  said, that he rose for the purpose of redeeming the pledge, which, on the first night of the session, he had given expressive of his determination to submit to the consideration of that House, a motion respecting certain transactions connected with the administration of justice in Scotland, and the conduct of the law officers of the crown in a recent state prosecution, as affecting the justiciary court of that country, and as directly concerning the liberty and life of every individual in it. He felt as sensibly as
 269 ‡ 270 271 * 272 273 274 275 276 277 278 279 280 281 282 283 in odium corrumpentis,
 Lord A. Hamilton  said, that he was so perfectly satisfied with the whole course and tenor of the debate, to establish his own views of the transaction which had been the subject of it, that he did not wish to detain the House with any length of reply. He would merely make a statement of a few facts, or, in corroboration of facts. First, he must observe as a fact, that Mr. Home Drummond sat in the court while Campbell was giving his testimony, and never offered any evidence or expressed any desire to offer evidence, that any one circumstance stated by Campbell was false. He never said that Campbell was perjured, and he did not believe he had ever considered him perjured. Why was perjury now insinuated for the first time? Had the learned lord in Scotland ever held out as a reason for not prosecuting Campbell for perjury, that he could not procure a sufficient number of witnesses to convict him? He had never heard it alleged while in that country, that the evidence of Campbell was false and perjured, and he was convinced that it had never been considered so, because, if it had, the learned lord would not, from the trial in July up to this hour, have allowed himself and his colleagues to have been the subject of obloquy and reproach throughout Scotland. If the House should resist farther inquiry, he was sorry to say that their vote could not clear the characters implicated, or give satisfaction to the country. Campbell, when giving the evidence in question, said, "I stand before persons who can contradict me if I speak falsehood." Was he contradicted? No. The noble lord (Castlereagh) had said, and many of his defenders that night had repeated it, that every thing material in the charge had taken place in the presence only of Campbell the witness and Mr. Home Drummond, and that therefore it was that no prosecution for perjury had been instituted. That he denied, and would read from the evidence its contradiction. He then read from the trial—Campbell farther deposes, "that the sheriff, and, as he believes, the sheriff substitute, the solicitor-general, the procurator-fiscal of Edinburgh, as he understood, and a clerk came into the room." No less than five persons. Now, what passed at that meeting? The most important and most criminating fact of all It was at that very meeting that sir W. Rae, sheriff of Edinburgh, burnt the
 329
 Mr. F. Douglas  observed, that he was as anxious as any man to inquire into, and redress the grievances complained of, but he thought it was due to his hon. friend (Mr. P.) to state, that when he visited his manufactories a short time back, he saw all the children employed there were
 268
 Mr. Philips  doubted the accuracy of the hon. member's information, that children employed in cotton factories could be distinguished among hundreds of others in consequence of their appearance of ill health; for, from his own observation, the children so employed enjoyed as good health as any other children. He had himself personally inspected those schools, and selected two children who were engaged in a factory, and bore the appearance of ill health. The one was a boy whose ill health he found to be attributable to an accident he had suffered from having fallen down and been trampled upon by some soldiers; the other was a
 267 ex parte
 Mr. H. Sumner  felt it to be his duty to oppose the motion. The Orphans fund was a charge for the government of the city, and if that fund were found insufficient, the cause of that insufficiency ought to be explained before any additional grant were acceded to. But the improvident manner in which money was raised by the corporation of London, suggested the propriety of limiting its discretion, and watching its operation, for of the 100,000 l l 263 l l
 Mr. H. Sumner  considered that the city of London, like other places, ought to find and provide for its own gaols. Unless, therefore, he could find some sufficient grounds laid for this bill, he should feel it his duty to oppose it.
 Mr. Curwen  declared, that the impression upon his mind, from the evidence and Report of the Committee upon this subject two years ago, was, that the persons alluded to were not over-worked. The hon. baronet had spoken of the persons employed as having no protection.
 266
 Mr. J. P. Grant  spoke as follows:—Sir; alluded to as I have been by the learned lord, and having been of counsel for the prisoner in the trial in which the conduct of the learned lord is called in question, I have thought it necessary to offer myself thus early in the debate to your attention. I beg to assure the House, that nothing would have given me more sincere pleasure than that the learned lord had succeeded in removing the imputation cast upon him by the evidence of Campbell. The learned lord may believe me when I state, that I have never approached any question with more personal pain than I approach the present; but this is not a question in which personal considerations can be indulged. If there be any question on which such considerations must be sacrificed, it is this which arises out of the evidence of this man. This is as grave a charge, and on a matter as vital to the interests of the country, as ever was preferred to parliament. Even those who do not know me will not suppose that I can rise in my place in parliament, to deliver the opinions, which I shall be compelled to deliver before I sit down, of the conduct of gentlemen with whom I am in the daily habit of professional intercourse, gentlemen against whose private character I know of no imputation; whose manners are conciliatory; some of whom are nearly allied to persons whose friendship I am proud to possess:—it cannot be supposed that I can deliver such opinions of the conduct of such persons, without feeling the greatest degree of uneasiness. * 298 299 300 301 302 303 304 305 * 306 307 s. d. s. 308 309 of the court, who declared that, if to be well decided. I 310 the authority of their opinion? I will credit? Sir, there is not one of us, but, 311 * 312 l 313 in initialibus.  * *
 Mr. J. P. Grant  hoped he would be allowed to explain the reason which had delayed the return of the notes alluded to by the learned lord. The fact was, that the notes of the reporter alluded to were so very clumsy and incorrect as to be
 325
 Mr. J. P. Grant  stated, that he had understood it had been said in his absence from the House, that the counsel for the prisoners had complimented the public prosecutor. He could say for himself, that he had heard no such compliment;
 324
 Mr. Finlay  said, he had listened with great attention to all that had been said on both sides of the House, and had endeavoured to form an impartial opinion on the subject. He would ask, in reference to Mr. Drummond's conversations with Campbell, was it usual to ask a person whether he would choose to be examined or not? That Mr. Drummond had a right to afford him protection he would admit; but a removal to some place abroad seemed to him to be something more than mere protection, and to be therefore unwarrantable. For the sake of inquiry, he must vote for the production of the record. He agreed with the learned lord advocate, that the state of the country had been alarming and dangerous; but, agreeing with him in this opinion, he would ask, how it happened that there had been no trial for two months after this period of alarm and
 328
 Mr. N. Calvert  agreed with the observation of the last speaker, as to the taxation to which other counties were subjected, merely for the accommodation of Middlesex and the city of London. That was the more to be regretted, as this taxation being imposed upon coals, operated most oppressively towards the poorer classes. This tax, upon coals was indeed, of such a nature, that he thought it peculiarly worthy the consideration of the chancellor of the exchequer, as well as of the House itself, in order to devise a diminution of its pressure.
 Mr. S. Thornton  should not oppose the motion, but thought it rather hard that the city of London should have the power of taxing to such an extent, all the adjoining counties.
 Mr. W. Smith  wished to answer one objection which had been made to the petition being received. It had been said that it had not the assent of those persons from whom it was said to come. That observation he had the best ground for refuting, namely, the testimony of several of the parties themselves. Several of the petitioners having been disappointed that nothing had been done for them last session, had come to London this session, and he had inquired of them if they were aware of the nature of their petition, and that its being agreed to would be a means of reducing their wages. They replied, that they were perfectly aware of it, and so were many thousands of those by whom the petition had been made. There were upwards of 6,000 persons in and about Manchester who were most anxious to have their petitions, agreed to, though they all knew that a reduction of their wages would be the consequence. There were in all between 20 and 30,000 persons who were anxious that a different regulation should take place with respect to their hours of working, and with respect to the hours of the children also.
 Sir James Shaw  expressed a hope, that neither that House nor the country, would ever be found to concur with the hon. gentleman in condemning the city of London for its liberality towards the liberators of Europe. If the House agreed in the principle upon which the money alluded to in the motion was paid, he could not see upon what grounds that motion could be opposed.
 Sir. S. Romilly  said, that he had quoted the words of lord Gillies, declaring the inadmissibility of Campbell's evidence, from the published report of the trial of M'Kinley, which, however, might be different from the report in the possession of the lord advocate, and which he understood was different from every other. The report in the possession of the learned lord had not indeed been yet published, but he was told that the learned lord had received a proof copy of it from Edinburgh.
 Sir Samuel Romilly  said, that after the able, eloquent, and unanswerable speech of his hon. and learned friend, he should have thought it unnecessary to offer himself to the attention of the House, but for the extraordinary confidence with which the noble lord had defended the measures in question. The noble lord had talked of the record as if it had been on the table; but till the record was produced, the noble lord was totally unfit to argue on the subject. The noble lord had contended, that unless the facts were manifestly sufficient to warrant condemnation, there should be no inquiry; whereas the fact was, it became necessary to inquire, because they did not know the facts. The learned lord had argued against the production of the record as unnecessary and improper, because it would be interfering with the courts of justice; and had ob-
 320 ‡ 321 corpus delicti 322 witnesses. By 323
 Sir W. Curtis  brought up the report of the committee upon the petition of the Sheriffs and Common Council of London with respect to the completion of this prison.
 General Thornton  protested against the measure, conceiving that coroners were already sufficiently remunerated, as indeed appeared to be the general impression, from the eagerness with which that office was sought for when any vacancy occurred.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that the hon. member had overlooked the most material part of the statement which he had yesterday submitted to the House, namely, that the Bank was bound to receive those tokens for two years, from the 1st of March next. How, then, could any inconvenience be apprehended? Those tokens might be taken by gentlemen for rent,
 332
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that after the very full discussion which this subject had undergone, he felt it quite unnecessary to make any observations, now that he moved, in the terms of the treaty, That a sum not exceeding 400,000 l
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that that hon.
 334 335
 Mr. Lytlelton  expressed his high satisfaction at the sound and enlightened views of the noble lord, and he hailed their annunciation as propitious to the commercial interests of the country. He trusted they would be acted upon in the councils of the nation, as soon as was compatible with public expediency. What he ad principally complained of, in regard to Spain was, the capricious manner in which the change of duties without notification was made.
 Mr. Robinson  said, that, with respect to cottons, there had been a notice given by Spain, in 1815, of her intention to return to her old prohibitory system against them. Sir Henry Wellesley had remonstrated against this, not entirely without success. He was not aware of any recent increase of the duties on iron. It certainly was a grievance that heavy duties should be suddenly imposed on the importation of a particular article of trade; yet this was a grievance which we ourselves had not infrequently occasioned to foreign merchants. For it even now was no uncommon thing (however mistaken the principle unfortunately was) to pass an act, imposing heavy duties on the importation of a particular article, which were to take effect immediately on the passing of the act.
 Lord Castlereagh  replied, that persons who had sentence pronounced in their favour, would have a strong equitable claim on the Spanish government. His understanding was, that persons in that situation must look to the Spanish government for indemnity.
 Mr. C. Grant, jun.  thought the noble lord had not answered the arguments of his right hon. friend. It was quite unnecessary to give such instructions to the committee as those proposed, because they were competent to recur to the subject without them. It would be a complete novelty, under such circumstances, to send such instructions to a secret committee of that House. But if they went so far, and took the ground of the noble lord, it became necessary to see whether the House could find a  primâ facie 349
 Mr. Bennet  said, he was placed in a considerable dilemma by the present motion, to which he meant, however, to give his support. But the House must not think that the country could look to the secret committee with any expectation of an impartial investigation, when they
 350 351 s. 352 ‡ 353 354 355
 Mr. Bennet  continued. He said, he might not be in the particular barn; but he would show by-and-by, what the connexion of Oliver was with Derby. On the 26th of May he went to Derby. There a person, whose name he should not mention, from whom he had a statement, saw him. On that day the 26th of May 1817, one James Birkin came to him, and told him there was at the House of a person in Derby, a gentleman who was sent to the country by a committee of gentlemen in London, to ascertain the sentiments of the people respecting parliamentary reform. This person went to the Talbot inn, and saw the gentleman from London, who said his name was Oliver, and received him politely. Soon after, a person present observed, that the town was confused with the cavalry, and other soldiers, ordered out in consequence of some expected disturbance. Oliver said it would be another grand hoax on the government, and when the time arrived they would be asleep A conversation then ensued respecting parliamentary reform, and the distressed state of the country. Oliver said, that "all legal means had been tried to no purpose, and that the London people never meant to petition any more." Oliver asked for a person who had been talked of the night before. It was replied, that it was not certain that he would conic. He however came in. After some observations on sir Francis Burdett's motion for reform, Oliver said, that it was evident that petitioning parliament was of no use. He was then asked, if he considered reform to be altogether impracticable? To this Oliver said, No, not in London, as there were other means to be tried; and that in London they were more active than ever to obtain their rights. Oliver was then asked, what way they meant to proceed? and he said, "they meant to try those means they had left, which was physical force; and that they were only waiting the determination of their friends in the country." He was told that the country would not do any thing. "In that," said Oliver, "you are mistaken; half the country is in an organized state, particularly Birmingham, Sheffield, Leeds, and most of the manufacturing districts." He added, "that the people about Leeds were all armed, and with difficulty kept down until the appointed time." He
 ¶ 357 358 359 360 361 362 363
 Mr. Bennet  observed, that he had not expressed himself at all in favour of the employment of such instruments. All he had observed was, that it was most difficult to distinguish between repentant sinners, and those who were actuated by hopes of lucre.
 The Solicitor General  said, he felt himself called upon to answer some observations which had been made by the hon. gentleman on the conduct of his hon. and learned colleague; and but for this attack, he should not have been induced to trouble the House. With regard to the motion itself, he did not think that it required much reasoning to show that it ought not to be entertained. The motion was grounded solely and exclusively on a passage in the report of the secret committee, which could not bear the construction put upon it. It proceeded on the supposition, that the passage alluded to imputed criminal actions to those spies into whose conduct it was its object to recommend the institution of a criminal inquiry. The report, however, could bear no such construction: it imputed nothing that could be the foundation of a criminal indictment: yet the whole of the hon. opener's speech rested on such a construction. He would read the passage, and the House would be convinced of the erroneous use made of it. "Upon the whole," it said, "your Committee
 367 368 369 370
 Mr. Bennet  begged to explain. He had more than once, in the course of his observations, called the prisoners at Derby, traitors.
 The Solicitor General , in continuation, said, that whatever other expressions the hon. gentleman had used, and he did not mean to deny his use of the word traitors, he had likewise employed the terms which he had quoted. The hon. gentleman had said, that as the attorney-general had not produced Oliver, he could not have been called by the counsel for the prisoners, because his testimony, if received at all, must have gone to convict them. He allowed this, so far as regarded the effect of his testimony to acquit them; but if it could have established the fact that they had been deluded by him, might it not have operated favourably in their behalf, when, after conviction on competent evidence, they were called up to receive judgment? But so far were they from thinking they had any such evidence reserved for a mitigation of punishment, that it appeared on the trial they did not even know of the name of Oliver. Their guilt had been contracted even before that person went among them. According to the statement given to-night, Oliver and Brandreth did not meet, it was said, till the 26th of May; but meetings of the conspirators had taken place before that date, and the plan was arranged which afterwards ended in the insurrection of the 9th of June. Nothing appeared in the hon. gentleman's narrative that tended to show that Oliver had arranged the conspiracy. The reason given by the hon. gentleman for not trying Bacon first—namely, that if that trial had been first proceeded in, Oliver must have been produced—was wholly groundless; and was a representation which should not go forth
 371
 Mr. Canning  rose, but sir Samuel Romilly called upon the solicitor-general to explain the supposed misrepresentation: Mr. Canning, however, persevered.—If he had recognised, he said, in the hon. and learned gentleman a right to regulate the order of debate, he should not have persisted in claiming the attention of the House before the explanation, so extraordinarily called for, had been given [Hear, hear!]: he used the term, "so extraordinarily called for," not with reference to the hon. and learned member's speech, but to the colloquial and irregular mode in which he had demanded a reply. The hon. and learned gentleman's practice, both here and elsewhere, might have taught him, that there might be two reasons for not giving an explanation—the one, where what had been stated was so clear as to make explanation unnecessary; the other, where a statement had been—he would not say so wilfully, but certainly so grossly misrepresented, that it might safely be left to the audience to do the speaker justice. 376 dared 377 378 habetis confitentem reum; 379 380 381 not 382 383 384 385
 Mr. Canning  said, that with respect to the letter of earl Fitzwiiliam, he would appeal to the recollection of the House whether, in the debates last session on the second suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, one of the strongest arguments against that suspension was not the change of opinion in earl Fitzwilliam.
 Mr. Canning  disavowed any the slightest intention of wilfully keeping back
 394
 Lord Castlereagh  thought, that the situation of the noble lord, as a member of the Secret Committee, ought to have precluded him from making a most odious, and in his opinion, a most unfair statement. It was a thing that he could not help complaining of. The noble lord had given notice in the committee of a motion, for the production of a paper, on which he (lord C.) had stated, that he did not suppose there would be any difficulty in granting the production of any papers; but he thought it proper, as he did not belong to the department from which that paper was to be received, that the question should be reserved for a future day. The noble lord, therefore, had given a very unfair colouring to the circumstances relative
 395
 Mr. Bathurst  observed, that he had never denied Oliver's being at Nottingham; and with respect to Derby, he only
 356
 Mr. Bathurst  was sure that the House could require no apology from the hon. gentleman for the manner in which he had introduced his motion. Nothing could be more moderate, judicious, and correct. But he could not pay a similar compliment to. the motion itself. It was to instruct the committee to adopt a precise line of conduct, which the powers they already possessed would enable them to adopt, if necessary. They were already armed with powers to send for persons, papers, and records. The hon. gentleman, by merely quoting the earlier part of a passage in the Report of the Committee of Secrecy of last year, had given a bearing to it which it did not warrant. The motion of the hon. member assumed the truth of a proposition which he begged leave to deny as being at all founded in truth, and still more as being found in the Report of the Committee; for it, in fact, assumed that that committee had asserted, that a certain crime had been committed. If the whole of that passage of the Report to which the hon. gentleman alluded were read, it would be seen plainly that he was mistaken. 341 342 343 the 344
 Mr. Bathurst  expressed his surprise at this declaration, and said, that if that was the case, the motion of the hon. gentle-
 345
 Mr. Bathurst  spoke to order. Did the noble lord mean to say that he intended to mislead the House?
 Mr. Bathurst  observed, that what he had stated, was, that Oliver was not sent by government, but that being found in connexion with the disaffected, he was desired to continue that connexion. He had not, then, received any instructions to ingratiate himself with those who might be suspected of evil designs, but to make himself acquainted with their proceedings,—a task in which he must necessarily appear sometimes as an accomplice.
 Mr. Bathurst  observed, that there was no evidence of the person alluded to having been in those parts of Derbyshire where the insurrection took place.
 Mr. Tierney  said, the fact was, that one letter had been received which was thought convenient to be communicated, and another had been received subsequently which was kept back, as it was thought not convenient to communicate it.
 Mr. Tierney  observed, that among the advantages which the right hon. gentleman had over him was this, that he had had full two hours' start of him. Of this, however, he would not complain, nor of the length of his speech, although three quarters of it consisted of epigrams, spangles, and fantastical embroidery. He would pass over the right hon. gentleman's allusion to the Millenium, to Robespierre, and the organized shouts; but he could not overlook the right hon. gentleman's angry remark upon the words of his learned friend, that the House dare not do so and so, without adverting to the language of the right hon. gentleman's threat upon a former occasion, that if the House acted in the manner which he then deprecated, an appeal would be made to the people. He meant in 1807, when the right hon. gentleman menaced the House with dissolution if it opposed his opinion, and when his words were ordered to be taken down. * * 387 388 ¶ 389 390 391 392 393
 Mr. Ogle  brought in a bill for the suppression of gaming, and for the regulating houses kept for the purposes of play. The bill was read a first time. It proposed, that gaming should not hereafter be allowed in any house or room, without a license; that any master of a gaming house lending money for the purpose of play, should be subject to a certain penalty; and that no keeper of a tavern or hotel, should allow play in any of his rooms, without a license.
 Mr. Calcraft  believed great advantage might arise from the treaty, both as to the advancement of fair trade, and the abolition of the slave trade; but there were other points on which he wished to make an observation: 400,000 l l l
 Mr. Curwen  hoped that the directors would feel themselves called upon to take measures to prevent loss to the public from the issue of tokens. He had a letter from Scotland, stating that at Selkirk many poor persons were kept in want of the necessaries of life from the difficulty of getting the old silver coinage exchanged at the time the new coinage was issued. The Bank ought surely to provide that similar distress should not be occasioned by the withdrawing of their tokens, especially as they must have made great profit by the issue of them.
 Mr. Fazakerley  said, that he had made no allusion to the trials at Derby, and that his remarks related solely to what had taken place in the metropolis.
 Mr. Fazakerley  said, he rose in conformity to the notice which he had a few days since given, to make his promised motion for an instruction to the committee of secrecy now sitting, to inquire whether any and what measures had been taken to detect and bring to justice those persons who were described in the Report made by the Committee of Secrecy on the 20th of June, 1817, as individuals whose language and conduct might in some instances have had the effect of encouraging those designs which it was intended they should only be the instruments of detecting.—He was sensible how much he should require the indulgence of the House in the few preliminary observations which it would be necessary for him to make on a subject that had so strongly excited the interest of parliament and the country—a subject to which the public attention had been particularly directed by the circumstances which had transpired in the recent trials connected with it; in conjunction with the passage in the Report of the Committee of Secrecy of last year, to which he had just adverted. Not having precise local knowledge, he did not wish to be understood to refer to any particular individual, but to ground his motion on the general statement in the Report. There were some persons, whose names were mentioned as being the most conspicuous members in the honourable confederacy to which he alluded, but he had not had any precise information on that subject to enable him to investigate the particular cases. He trusted, indeed, that neither the name of Oliver, nor the names of any other persons, would be considered as in any way connected with what he had to lay before the House; for he merely grounded his motion upon the report of the House itself, and he only desired to know whether any measures had been taken to detect and bring to justice the persons to whom the report alluded. He wished the House to recollect the course of proceeding that had been adopt-
 * 339 340
 Mr. J. P. Grant  observed, that the claims in question were of different kinds. Some of them were yet to be made good. Others were already established, the ships having been condemned. With respect to the latter, he thought a specific sum ought to have been stipulated for their satisfaction.
 Dr. Phillimore  wished to know whether, under the present treaty, persons who,
 336 l l
 Mr. Babington  begged leave to address a few observations to the chancellor of the exchequer upon the subject of Bank Tokens. He differed from the right hon. gentleman in what he had said last night, that government was under no obligation to facilitate the calling in of the Bank tokens, as they formed no part of the legal coin of the country. But according to his view, those tokens having been issued by the Bank with the sanction of government, in order to supply the want of legal coin, it was the duty of government, as well as of the Bank, to provide that the holders of those tokens should suffer no inconvenience from them; and that agents should be appointed in every great town throughout the country to call them in, as was the case some time ago with respect to the old Mint silver. Unless some such arrangement were made, considerable inconvenience would result to the poorer classes. In the district with which he was connected as well as in others of which he had heard, those tokens formed more than one-third of the circulation.
 Mr. Lyttelton  said, he was informed it had been the practice of Spain to give six months' notice of any prohibitory duties before they were actually imposed, and the complaint was, that this practice had been discontinued.
 Mr. Lyttelton  said, that it was with reluctance he rose to offer any observations at all calculated to disturb the unanimity which the object of the treaty so justly
 333 l bonus
 Mr. Lyttelton  strongly protested against the provision in this bill with respect to licenses, declaring that he would oppose the bill altogether, unless this provision were neutralized; for as it now stood, it
 331
 Mr. Manning  said, that the Bank directors had actually sustained loss by standing between the public and the executive government, when silver was extremely scarce in the country. He had no doubt that, by the end of the two years allowed for the circulation of tokens, they would be all withdrawn without inconvenience.
 Mr. W. Smith  thought it was very evident, that other European nations, and France especially, had a common interest with ourselves in observing the conditions of this treaty. France, which was a colonial power, had already abolished the trade as far as it respected her colonies, and, he was ready to admit, did intend to prohibit it generally to all her subjects. It must, therefore, in his opinion, be the interest of France, in whatever light it was viewed, as well as the interest of this country, not to suffer a trade in slaves to be carried on with her colonies, under foreign colours, which she did not allow to her own subjects. He gave his entire approbation to the treaty under consideration.
 Mr. Wilberforce  had no doubt at all that the treaty had proceeded from feelings of the purest humanity; but, viewing it on the coldest principles of commercial calculation, he would say, that it was the wisest treaty that could have been framed. With a view to promote the commercial interests of the country, nothing could be more politically wise and provident, than to possess the inhabitants of Africa with a taste for our manufactures. The provisions of the treaty respecting the abolition of the slave trade were beneficial, not only for ourselves, but for all mankind. But, in a commercial view, it was of incalculable advantage to have the supply of that large tract of country, from the Senegal down to the Niger, an extent of more than 7,500 miles, with the necessaries and gratifications which our manufactures and our commerce afforded. One of the greatest difficulties in repressing the slave trade was, that we could not give the inhabitants of Africa their accustomed gratifications. To obtain these, they often had recourse to the abominable practices of this inhuman traffic. This evil would be, in a great measure, remedied by this treaty. It was, then, he repeated, of vast commercial benefit. Even already, with all the difficulties we had to encounter, our exports to Africa were greatly in-
 337
 Mr. Wilberforce , notwithstanding the latter words of the hon. gentleman's speech, could not help protesting against the distrust he had expressed against the committee, and which tended to raise a prejudice against it before the result of its inquiry could be known; he should not, however, feel embarrassed while sitting in that committee; but the reason why, as a member of that House, he objected to the motion of the hon. gentleman was, that it was founded on a false assumption; it was founded on an idea that the late committee had attributed some specific part of the disturbances in question to Oliver; whereas, that was not the meaning of the committee. After stating that certain disturbances had existed prior to the employment of Oliver, it did not choose to throw out of view what effect the language of Oliver might have had towards continuing those disturbances, lest, by so doing, it might have incurred a charge of disingenuousness; not that the committee believed the influence of Oliver had had any particular effect, but only that general effect always consequent on the employment of such means for the detection of crime; if, therefore, he rejected the motion on that ground, it was because it proceeded upon a false hypothesis. If the hon. gentleman contended that some specification of Oliver's particular offences was intended to be conveyed by the language of the committee, he, for one, could assure him that he had no such meaning. He never meant to say, that nothing in these disturbances was attributable to Oliver; but what had just been stated by the hon. gentleman if considered as having some weight, was also to be received with some distrust as coming from a doubtful source. He remembered when an account was formerly given in that House of some diplomacy between lord Malmesbury and M. de la Croix, very much in favour of lord Malmesbury, that Mr. Fox had said he should like to hear M. de la Croix; so he (Mr. Wilberforce) should like to hear Oliver—he did not mean in the committee, but by some other means, to ascertain the truth of what had been alleged against
 364 365 366
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, he hoped his hon. friend would not press his opposition in that stage, but give time for fuller consideration. He disliked the spirit of over legislation in matters that did not necessarily require the interposition of parliament.
 Sir R. Heron  did not consider the amount of money to be paid to Spain as any objection to the conditions of the treaty, although he could not help regretting, that it was to fall into the coffers of the Spanish treasury at the moment when it might enable that government to effect the subjugation of its revolted colonies. He did not very clearly see why our
 338
 Sir S. Romilly  said, he was surprised at the course pursued by the two last speakers, in addressing themselves more to the mode of inquiry than the substance of the charges. His hon. friend, the member for Bramber, had objected to a reference of the inquiry to the committee of secrecy; and his hon. and learned friend, the solicitor-general, had contented himself with showing that the passage in the report to which the motion alluded did not bear the construction put upon it so as to render a reference to the committee necessary. He himself had no particular desire that the examination proposed should be referred to the committee of secrecy; but he would vote for his hon. friend's motion, because he thought some course should be adopted to sift the alleged charges, and this was the one that had been suggested. He wished for a committee of inquiry, but it did not matter with him whether this committee or another should be instrusted with the inquiry. Indeed, after what had been said by the noble member for Yorkshire, that he stood alone in the secret committee, and that he merely attended it because he wished to fulfil a duty imposed upon him by the House, and not with any hopes of doing any good in it, he would have preferred another mode of inquiry. Some inquiry was, however, absolutely necessary; and after the charges which had been heard from his hon. friend that night, with the pledge which he had given that he could substantiate them by witnesses upon oath, if a proper opportunity were allowed, he would repeat the words which his hon. friend had used, and say, that he thought the House would not dare to resist inquiry into the truth. This parliament was drawing near to a dissolution; and how could the members who composed it meet their constituents at a new election, if they heard such grave charges, and resisted an examination into them? His hon. and learned friend thought he
 372 373 374 375
 Sir S. Romilly  was sure the House would excuse him for saying one word strictly in explanation. He might, in-
 386
 Lord Althorp  had no objection to the spirit and object of the treaty, but the laying out of so large a sum of money in pure bounty to the Spanish government, appeared to him very liable to suspicion. We were evidently ambitious of being distinguished as the most charitable of all nations; but could we get credit for lavishing so large a sum out of mere charity, while our own country was in such distress?
 Lord Milton  expressed his astonishment that the right hon. gentleman's recollection should not serve him from the hour of two to that of eight of the same day. To return to the course of his ob-
 348
 Lord Milton  proceeded. He could not agree with the right hon. gentleman, that no injurious consequences had arisen from the employment of Oliver. On the contrary, he thought his mission calculated to produce the effects which had actually ensued. Its object was, to deter-
 346 * * 347 bonâ fide
 Lord Milton  said, that the speech of the right hon. gentleman was calculated to mislead the House with respect to certain parts of the transaction. The right hon. gentleman had stated, that the first connexion of Oliver with the disaffected was without the concurrence of government.
 Lord Milton  observed, that if by any chance hereafter, which he did not at present anticipate, he should be engaged in the honourable employment of a spy, he hoped it would be in the service of the right hon. gentleman [a laugh]. He could not, however, refrain from stating, that he thought the right hon. gentleman's course of argument calculated materially to mislead the House in their view of this question.
 Lord Milton  trusted that, from the  argumentum ad hominem argumentum ad filium
 Mr. Lockhart  expressed an opinion, that if this bill originated with the surgeons, it must have a monopoly in view. The effect of it would be, to injure a profession which ought to have too much pride, to entertain any apprehension of the competition of pretenders.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  hoped the House would feel the propriety of his silence with regard to the financial plan to be submitted to its consideration, until that plan was fully matured—until,
 399
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had already notified to the House, that it was not his intention to bring forward any part of his financial plan before Easter; and he trusted it would not be thought improper on his part to decline any premature or partial disclosure of that plan. With regard to the communication to the Stock Exchange, the hon. member alluded, he presumed, to that made by the broker of the commissioners for redeeming the National Debt. The fact was, that, understanding a general expectation prevailed, that if exchequer bills were funded, a preference would be given to those bearing an interest of 2½ d.
 Mr. Dugdale  said, that from the circumstances which came to his knowledge as a magistrate of Warwickshire, with respect to the condition of the petitioners, he thought their case peculiarly entitled to the attention of the House. He could not at present express any opinion as to the nature of the remedy proposed by the petitioners; but he felt it his duty to vote for referring the petition to a committee, convinced that the subject was worthy of consideration.
 Alderman Atkins  expressed a wish, that the right hon. gentleman would favour the House with somewhat more of explanation, in order to remove the uncertainty that prevailed. For his own-part, he could not think it desirable to fund any exchequer bills, and so to diminish the floating capital of the country. For how could it be politic to take a measure which must operate to reduce the price of stock? Government could raise money at less than 3 per cent, in consequence of the present price of stock; whereas if that price fell eight or ten per cent, it could not have money under 4 per cent. Such a fall would, he apprehended, be the result of funding, at present, a great quantity of exchequer bills. Another report prevailed, that it was the intention of the right hon. gentleman to propose the raising of a loan for the purpose of buying up the 5 per cents, and this was a plan which he must also deprecate. But at all events, he thought that no danger could result from the right hon. gentleman's explaining what were his views upon the points alluded to.
 Mr. Curwen  said, he thought it right to state to the House a circumstance which had just come to his knowledge, and which appeared to suggest the expediency, as well as the means of facilitating the transport of Bank Tokens to London. He understood that those tokens might be had in the country at one per cent under their nominal value. On these terms they were now buying up by speculators, with a view to obtain gold for them at the Bank, which gold could be exported at a profit. From this fact, it was obviously the interest of the Bank to appoint an agent in each of the principal towns in the country, with a view to collect these tokens, and also to save its gold, which was surely a consideration of some importance, at a period when it was proposed to extend the Bank Restriction act, in order to prevent the export of bullion. It was, besides, the duty of government as well as of the Bank, to adopt some measures to save the labourers and other poor holders of those tokens from the necessity of selling them, at a loss, in consequence of their inability to convey them to London.
 Mr. Grenfell  said, that from some circumstances which had come to his knowledge, he felt it necessary to put a question to the chancellor of the exchequer. A report having prevailed last week in the city, that it was the intention of the right hon. gentleman to propose this session the funding of exchequer bills, and that what were called the twopenny halfpenny bills would be preferred, he understood that on Saturday last a communication was made to the Stock Exchange by the person who usually made known there the intentions of the Treasury, that it was not proposed, on funding exchequer bills, to grant a preference to any particular description of those bills, but to take those that were to be funded out of the general mass. Hence, an impression prevailed in the city, that it was the intention of the right hon. gentleman to fund a considerable number of exchequer bills. He did not wish for any information from the right hon. gentleman as to any part of his financial plan, which might not yet be matured; but, understanding that it was the intention of the right hon. gentleman, in all events, to fund a quantity of ex-
 398
 Mr. Grenfell  approved of the intention of the right hon. gentleman not to make any premature disclosure of his financial plan. His only object in putting a question to the right hon. gentleman was, to do away the impression in the city, that he had finally made up his mind as to the funding of exchequer bills.
 Mr. P. Moore , in presenting a Petition from the Ribbon Weavers of Coventry, took occasion to observe upon the merit and suffering of the petitioners, who, as the law stood at present, were precluded from making such arrangements among themselves as were necessary to ensure a due remuneration for their labour. Even when in full work, the earnings of these poor industrious men were known to be comparatively inadequate; but when trade was slack, they were so very distressed that they were under the necessity of applying for relief from the poor-rates. Thus the poor-rates of the inhabitants of
 396
 Mr. Bennet  said, he held in his hand a Petition from one of those unfortunate men who had suffered so much severity and real cruelty under the Suspension act. It was from Joseph Mitchell, of Liverpool. He was in that situation which had been said to render men un-worthy of credit. He had beyond all question suffered imprisonment without indictment or trial, but whether he was therefore unworthy of credit he would leave to others to determine. He most certainly believed the representations of harsh usage, unauthorized cruelty, and wanton treatment in the petition to be true. The facts were such as claimed the most serious attention of the House, and the prayer of the petition called upon them not to pass a bill of indemnity to screen ministers from the consequences of their abuse of the powers intrusted to them. Mr. Bennet having moved, that the petition be printed, the chancellor of the exchequer asked, if the hon. member could state that it was couched in respectful language? Mr. Bennet, said, that there might be a harsh expression, but the tenor of the petition was respectful. 400 l. 401 402 403 404 405
 Mr. Bennet  also presented a Petition from Thomas Evans, of No. 8, Newcastle-street, Strand, setting forth; 406 407 to 408 409 410 l. 411
 Mr. Wynn  expressed his readiness to attend to any suggestion from the hon. gentleman. But as to the discretion proposed to be granted to the returning officer, that, like every other degree of discretion at present belonging to that officer, was to be exercised, subject to the right of superintendence and revision on the part of that House, which right must always form a guard against the abuse of such discretion. With respect to the other point alluded to by the hon. gentleman, it would be admitted that a riot serving to prevent electors from coming to the poll, might happen at a distance from the place of polling, and it was to meet such a case that the clause under consideration was so constructed.
 Mr. C Wynn  said, that petitions might be laid on the table which contained statements that might make it improper to
 412
 Lord Folkestone  thought the hon. member's argument went rather to show the propriety of printing all petitions. How-were the House to know the contents of a petition, if it was neither read by the clerk nor printed with the votes? What was the advantage of having a petition laid on the table, if it remained thus unread and unprinted He saw with surprise so many innovations introduced by those who made innovation one of their main arguments against the most important improvements. It was only since the last eight or nine months, that it became necessary to make a distinct motion for the printing of a petition. In his memory, every petition presented was printed at full length. They were gradually shortened; and at length, a particular motion became necessary for the printing of a petition at all. He had on a former occasion expressed his regret at this vote. It was a palpable injury to the people that every petition should not be printed, in order to come readily under the observation of the House; for they were only the servants, the representatives of the people. He should not, however, be surprised, although he should be sorry to find it ordered, that no petition be printed.
 Mr. Bennet  next presented a Petition from William Ogden, of Manchester, Printer; setting forth, 413 414
 Sir Francis Burdett  rose to present a petition of a similar nature. It was scandalous that so many innocent men should be seized and subjected to imprisonment. They had been arrested without a charge, confined and punished according to the pleasure of ministers, and most illegally discharged without an opportunity of proving their innocence and their sufferings. They had always pressed for a trial, but when the time came their accusers shrunk from such a test of their conduct. s. d. s. d. s. d. 415
 Mr. Bennet  presented a petition from William Benbow, late of Manchester, setting forth, ‡ 416
 Mr. Wynn  said, he was not aware of the intention to propose any alterations in this bill, but if any such were intended, he should feel obliged if they were now brought forward, as the present was the most convenient stage for such discussion. In the clause excepting places which had no more than 150 electors, from the authority of magistrates to erect booths for polling, &c he himself proposed to move an alteration. Nothing could be more regular, he understood, than the mode of conducting elections in the city of London, where 8,000 electors were usually polled in eight days, and therefore he proposed to insert the exception of London in this clause, in addition to that of the universities of Oxford and Cambridge.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the option of postponing the repayment of the six millions to the Bank for three years would not be accepted, but that they would be repaid in the course of the year. He agreed, in a great measure, with what had subsequently fallen from the hon. gentleman. It was undoubtedly very gratifying to government to be enabled to raise money on terms more advantageous than had ever before existed.
 Sir R Fergusson  supported the motion. No one who looked at the deplorable State of the representation in Scotland, could agree in the eulogies which had been pronounced on it. The people were not in a state of fermentation, but of great anxiety for a better system, of which they had a good example in the new constitution of Montrose. He then read the parting address of the late magistrates of Aberdeen, who declared their decided opinion, that a new constitution was necessary, for the sake both of the magistrates and people. This address was written by gentlemen who had been in the uniform habit of supporting his majesty's ministers. The hope of a change in the constitution of the burghs had been fostered by the commissioners at Montrose, one of whom, the sheriff of Perthshire, praised the liberal constitution which the paternal government of the country had given them, and adduced it as a proof that the ministers were willing to effect reform when reform was necessary. He hoped his majesty's ministers would act up to the liberal ideas which were thus praised by their warmest adherents.
 Mr. Forbes  stated, that the burgh was involved in some difficulties by the purchase of a large quantity of ground which for some years they could not let out on building leases, but even under their difficulties they were only 1,400 l.
 Mr. Douglas  said, that the embarrassments of the burgh were so far removed as to leave a sinking fund of 300 l.
 Mr. Wynn  observed, that it was evidently a great hardship that a candidate, against whom no objection was made or poll demanded, should be subjected to the expense and trouble of an election, merely because there were other candidates, with
 418
 Sir. F. Burdett  presented a petition from the inhabitants of St. George's, Hanover square. It began with expressing their conviction, in common with the whole kingdom, that the House did not in any intelligible or constitutional sense represent the people, that they were the instruments of a weak and contemptible administration, who had suspended the constitution of the country, and punished the people at their pleasure. It then proceeded to state, "that the petitioners would most certainly resist the payment of taxes, unless the prayer of their petition is complied with."
 Lord Castlereagh  rose to request the clerk to read the last sentence over again. This being done, he rose again amid the cheers of the House, to say that the language and spirit of the petition were neither respectful to the House, nor re-concileable with the laws and constitution of the country, he therefore moved that it be rejected.
 Sir F. Burdett  contended, that as the petitioners were to resist the payment of taxes only in a legal manner, their petition ought to be received. It was the very principle and spirit of the constitution, that the people should pay no taxes but through their representatives. If, then, they were called upon to pay taxes which their representatives had not imposed, the constitution and laws] of the country should protect them from the payment of those taxes.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  entertained no doubt that the sum now voted would cover every charge that could arise during the period in question, not excepting those payments to the Bank which the gradual liquidation of its claims would render necessary, and which he had before stated would be made in money.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that no part of this sum would he due until the 5th of April. Then the repayment would commence, and, as he said, would, for mutual convenience, be gradual.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was persuaded that the right hon. gentleman was the only person in the House who understood him on a late occasion, in the way in which he had described. On that occasion the right hon. gentleman had asked him whether the six millions which would become due to the Bank on the 5th of April next, would be paid in exchequer bills or in money? His reply was, that it would be paid in money. But he had not said—indeed the question had not been asked him—that it would be so paid on any given day. His answer was simply to be understood in this sense—that government did not intend to renew the six millions in exchequer bills, but that at some period within the time specified by act of parliament, that sum would be paid to the Bank in money. He had not stated the precise time when it would be actually paid, but the want of the money could
 421
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he had already stated, that the repayment would take place in such proportions as occasion might require.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that the speech of the noble lord had been marked with every degree of candour; and he was very anxious as candidly to state the grounds on which he saw objections to producing the document for which the noble lord had moved. It was very true the noble lord had stated, that it was not his wish to connect the particular reform which he wished, with any general reform in the representation—that he had rather in view an improvement in the administrative than the representative character of the burghs; but though the noble lord had not opened the general question of parliamentary reform, he could not separate the subject from it. The reform which the noble lord wished, would lead to an extensive change in the burgh elections of Scotland, and, therefore, would cany reform into the representation of that part of the country. But he would contend, that there were not very strong grounds for the production of the document, even on the more limited ground of approvement in the administration of the Scots burghs. There might be defects in that administration, as there were defects in every institution; but in so far as his majesty's ministers, from being charged with the peace of the country, were acquainted with the state of the country, he could say that there was no part of the country where the population was in a sounder state than in the burghs of Scotland. Order and decorum marked the national character of Scotchmen, and no where was that order and decorum more conspicuous than in the royal burghs. There seemed, however, a defect in the law of Scotland with respect to the burghs—they had no power at present to take cognizance of the pecuniary concerns, and to enter into the subject of the administration of the funds of these burghs. But
 429 430
 Mr. Abercromby  said, that the subject brought forward by his noble friend had no connexion with that of parliamentary reform. The state of the Scotch burghs, however, was such as, in the opinion of those who were most competent to form an opinion on the subject, called imperiously for inquiry. He could not, indeed, see any connexion between such an inquiry and the subject of parliamentary reform, excepting in as far as any regulations respecting those who had a right to vote in the election of a member of parliament was connected with that subject. It was said, that it was only when the rights of the burgh were suspended, that the Crown interfered to re-animate them. But, in the case alluded to, it went farther; it altered the set altogether. If this was wrong, it was an usurpation on the part of the Crown; and though in the present instance it might have been exercised beneficially, yet it went to establish a precedent which, in the hands of bad ministers, might be made use of to justify the worst encroachments. He thought no subject more suitable for parliamentary inquiry. He thought that copies of the old and new set should be produced, that they might be able to see the alteration to find whether the Crown had improperly interfered, or whether they had interfered in such a manner as demanded parliamentary inquiry. If the Crown had improperly interfered, and no notice was taken of it, the measure would be acquiesced in and be established as a precedent. He thought the course adopted by his noble friend a proper one. It was not connected with any wild theories of parliamentary reform. If it had been he should have remained silent; but being of a different opinion, and finding that in the course of this year five or six other burghs were likely to be placed in a similar situation to that in which Montrose
 431
 The Lord Advocate  contended, that no person in that House had ever charged Scotland with being generally disaffected —it was only Glasgow and its neighbourhood to which the charge of taking illegal oaths applied. The noble mover had said, that the magistrates and counsel of the burghs possessed an unlimited power of taxing the property of persons residing in the burgh. The noble lord had forgotten, that in the Declaration of Grievances at the Revolution, to levy money without the consent of parliament was declared contrary to law. He would ask the noble lord, if in any of these burghs which he declared to be in a state of utter insolvency, a single suit had ever been brought forward against any one of the inhabitants for payment of the debts of the community? From the Revolution downwards, with one single exception in appearance, which he should explain, no case had occurred of burgesses being liable for debts contracted by their magistrates. He knew that opinions had been given by counsel that the inhabitants were liable for the debts of the burgh; but though these opinions had been given years ago, no suit had ever been commenced on them. He could tell the noble lord, that the magistrates of some burghs had attempted to levy petty customs for the defrayment of the public debt; in Aberdeen, for instance; but the question was ultimately decided, on appeal to the House of Lords that the magistrates of burghs had no such power to levy customs. The noble lord had referred to a case decided by the barons of exchequer; but he mistook it. By an old Scotch statute, it was alleged that the barons of the exchequer were empowered to audit the accounts
 432 433
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  rose to reply.—He observed, that the learned lord had
 436 l. l. ex-officio 437
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  rose to make his promised motion, relative to the late transactions in the burgh of Montrose, which were likely to have so material an influence on the future situation and destiny of Scotch burghs. He said, he should commence by declaring what his intended motion was not, and then proceed to state what it was. It was not any disguised motion for parliamentary reform, nor had it any necessary connexion with that unwelcome topic. His motion would be for the production to this House of those proceedings of the privy council, which were technically called, the Act or Warrant, by which a new election of magistrates had been granted by government to the burgh of Montrose, and a radical and important alteration had been made in the old constitution of that burgh. The learned lord advocate had declared, last session, when he (lord A. H.) had supported the prayer of some Scotch petitions for parliamentary reform, that the people of Scotland were satisfied with things as they were. * * 424 425 426 ‡ 427 428
 Mr. Tierney  observed, that holding in his hand an act of parliament which said that the six millions was to be repaid to the Bank on the 5th of April next, he had asked the right hon. gentleman opposite whether it was his intention to repay it in exchequer bills or in money? The right hon. gentleman had replied, in money. He certainly did then understand that it was to be so repaid in money on the day specified in the act. Such was the obtuseness of his intellect, that when he knew that money became due on the 5th of April, and when the right hon. gentleman told him that it was to be paid in money, he was fool enough to believe that it would be paid on that day [a laugh].
 Mr. Tierney  said, he should suppose, that the convenience of the party to whom the money was to be paid, would be best consulted by liquidating the demand. But it was most important to the country that it should be repaid to the Bank at the time specified by law, because it went to afford to the Bank the facilities of meeting its engagements with the country, by paying its notes in cash. But what said the chancellor of the exchequer to night? That on the 5th of April the
 420
 Mr. Tierney  did not think it of much importance whether the six millions was repaid in one sum, or in various sums; but the answer of the right hon. gentleman induced him to ask whether the repayment would take place on or before the time specified in the act, which was, he believed, the 5th of April next.
 Mr. Tierney  said he had a question to put to the chancellor of the exchequer, to which he felt it of great importance to obtain a definite answer. The right hon. gentleman had originally called for a grant of 39 millions by exchequer bills. He now was satisfied with a grant of thirty. What therefore he wished to know was, whether the sum of six millions to be paid to the Bank on the 5th of April next, was included in these 30 millions? In other words, would this grant meet the current expenses, and discharge the demand of the Bank?
 Mr. J. P. Grant  said, he should not give any opinion on the points of law discussed by the learned lord, but if the Crown had by law the power, in case of the suspension of the functions of a cov-
 435
 Mr. Lockhart  adverted to the clause authorizing a returning officer to adjourn the poll to the next day, when any riot should take place to prevent the electors
 417
 Mr. Lockhart  observed, that the only remedy which occurred to his mind at present was this, that upon the re-opening of the poll, after any adjournment, no elector should be allowed to vote, unless he swore that he had been previovsly obstructed or prevented by riot from coming to the poll.
 Mr. Grenfell  declared, that the impression on his mind, from what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman on a recent occasion, was, that this payment was to take place, in cash or in bank notes, on the 5th of April. But now the right hon. gentleman said, it was to be paid as it might be required by the Bank; though, but two minutes before, he had stated, that it would be paid before the end of the session. By the act of 1816, an option was given to government to prolong the payment to the Bank of this loan of six millions, for three years. Did the right hon. gentleman mean to state, that if the Bank did not require the money, or if he were not disposed to pay it, he should feel justified in delaying the payment so long as that period of three years? It was not, however, entirely for the purpose of putting this question that he had risen. He rose to express his hope, that the right hon. gentleman, in raising money, would adhere to the system which had been pursued, so advantageously for the public, in the mode of issuing exchequer bills during the last five months; namely, to issue them at the
 422 l. 423
 Mr. Sharp  wished to ask, whether it was the intention of government to pay these six millions to the Bank of England before the expiration of the act authorizing the Bank to suspend their payments in cash?
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that the revenues of the town of Aberdeen were 1,400 l.
 Sir James Mackintosh  said, he should not enter into the question of parliamentary reform, nor that of dry law, which was connected with the present motion, because the present was an unfit time to discuss the one, and the House of Commons was an improper tribunal to decide on the other. He thought the motion of his noble friend had been hardly dealt with, in being considered a motion sub-6ervient to parliamentary reform. It was strange that a motion, which called in question the legality of a change in any one burgh, should be viewed as leading to universal change. This seemed a paradox, which the learned lord had chosen for the purpose of displaying his ingenuity; but in supporting it he had forgotten his arguments. The learned lord had used an argument, connected with the question of parliamentary reform, which he could not help noticing. He had said, that it was strange that those
 434
 Sir M. Ridley,  on the question being put, that the petition be printed, rose to protest against any precedent that might be established by the chancellor of the exchequer having asked, when the question of printing a former petition was put, whether it contained any thing disrespectful, as if a petition respectful enough to be laid upon the table were not respectful enough to be printed. The chancellor of the exchequer might put such a question before the petition was laid on the table, but every petition laid on the table was entitled to be printed.
 Mr. Bennet  presented a Petition from John Bagguley of Manchester; setting forth, 442 443 444
 Lord Stanley  presented a Petition from the Owners and Occupiers of Cotton Mills in Manchester and the vicinity, setting forth, 441
 Mr. Philips  observed, that the petitioners conceived themselves to have been grossly calumniated by statements which had been made by different persons, regarding the labour and the health of persons employed by them, and by propositions to interfere with them in the conduct of their own business. He was convinced that if members would read the report attentively, they would find that in the manufactories those employed were in as good health at least, as those in any other branch.
 The Attorney General  said, he would not enter into a discussion of all the matters
 450
 Lord Castlereagh  thought, that the House were not prepared to enter into such a subject. He was persuaded they could not see their way so far as to venture to address the Crown upon an alteration which would render necessary a very extensive change in the constitution of the courts of Westminster-hall. Unless, indeed, there were an addition, if not of actual judges, at least of temporary ones, to act, as substitutes, the alteration could not be completed. The hon. gentleman had opened to the House a method by which the change might be effected, without making any great derangement of the present state of things; but he was quite unable to go along with him in the whole of his reasoning; and the House, he was sure, would feel it quite impossible
 452
 Mr. Wynn , although he felt that some measure was necessary, yet was glad that his hon. friend was about to withdraw his motion, to which he could not have consented, considering the near approach of the spring assizes, and that no person who had a suit would be sufficiently aware of the new arrangement.
 Sir Francis Burdett  presented a Petition from James Leach), flannel weaver, of Broadoth-lane, near Rochdale, in the county of Lancaster, setting forth; 454 455
 Lord Folkestone  moved, that the Petitions of Francis Ward, William Benbow, John
 461 * * 462 463 ‡ 464 465 * * 5, 466 non coram judice; 467 468 469
 Lord Castlereagh  said, on rising to make some observations on the motion of the noble lord, he must first ask whether that motion was consistent with the notice which the noble lord had given to the House? He had understood the noble lord formerly to allude to the case of Francis Ward, and to give notice that he would move for a specific inquiry into the allegations of his petition. He had, however, widely departed from that declared intention, and had introduced into his speech the discussion of, more comprehensive topics, connected with the general measure of the Suspension act, and the cases of all those who had been imprisoned under the powers which it conferred. But though the noble lord had altered his course by taking all the petitions for the basis of his motion, it did not follow that he (lord Castlereagh) should alter his; nor would he do so. He would particularly advert to the case of Ward, which the noble lord threw in the back ground, and for inquiring into which, had the noble lord confined himself to it, he would not have objected to a committee. He was willing to allow that, if such a committee had been appointed, the noble lord might consistently have moved to refer other petitions to it; but by his speech he had departed from the grounds of his motion, and had dwelt only on the necessity of a general investigation. The noble lord had alluded to the probability that his majesty's ministers would introduce a bill of indemnity to protect them from any of the legal consequences of the late exercise of the powers intrusted to them by parliament, and he had declared that he had bestowed some attention to the nature and history of such measures; but he could not compliment the noble lord on the accuracy of his reasoning, or the success of his research. The noble lord had said, that though there were numerous instances of the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, from the commencement of the last century down to the present time, yet that there was only one precedent for a bill of indemnity, and that had been passed as a protection to a cabinet composed nearly of the same persons who were now about to apply for it. Relying on the accuracy of this statement, the noble lord had called upon ministers to produce another instance of the passing of a bill of indemnity after the exercise of the powers conferred by the suspension act; but the noble lord must allow him to
 471 472 473 474 ex-parte 475 476 ex-parte ¶ 477 478 l. l. l. l. l. l. l. l. 479 480
  Mr. Goulding  begged to trouble the House for a few minutes, as he was possessed of some local knowledge on the subject of * s. d. 483
 Mr. Gordon  wished to say a few words on the petition from Bagguley. In consequence of that petition, he had written to the gaoler of Glocester, whom he knew to be a man of great humanity, and the reply to his inquiries was a complete contradiction of the petition. The prisoner declared, that on his arrival he had been plunged in a tub of cold water, and that a dangerous fever and cold had been the consequence of this immersion. The gaoler stated, that so far from the water being cold, the rules of the prison required
 † 484
 Sir F. Burdett  observed, that he could not pretend to come to the discussion of this question with a mind quite so unbiassed and unprejudiced as those gentlemen had professed who had delivered their sentiments before him. He could not but
 485 486 487 488 489 490 491 pro forma,
 Sir F. Burdett , in explanation, said that Mr. Wilberforce Bird, chairman to the committee upon the House of Correction, had related the story of the robin and Mr. Aris to the House.
 Mr. Ashurst  read a long statement taken from a report made to the magistrates of Oxford, relative to the condition of the county-gaol. It described all the accommodations to be most excellent, and asserted, that the state prisoners confined there returned thanks for the treatment which they had experienced, nor was any complaint made, except by one man, who said that his room had a smoky chimney.
 Sir F. Burdett  declared, that his only reason for pressing no objection to the decision of the committee alluded to, was simply this, that he saw all the other members of that committee, were unanimous against him; but still his own opinion was, that Colville had been most cruelly and unjustly treated.
 Sir F. Burdett  —I have just told the hon. member, that I did concur in that report, and I have also just told him my sole reason for so doing.
 Mr. Bennet  observed, that the complaint made by Ogden was, that the disease with which he had been afflicted, and of which he was so ably cured during his imprisonment, was produced by the chains and irons imposed upon him. The inquiry before the magistrates on this subject was
 498
 Lord Folkestone , in reply, observed, that had it been wished by ministers that the committee for which he had moved should be a secret committee, he, for his part, should have had no objection, and would have willingly met the proposal made by the last speaker. Upon a review of the defence made by the members of administration, he felt satisfied there had been no case made out which would warrant a British House of Commons in refusing to refer the petitions to a committee.
 The Attorney General  said, he had attentively read Ogden's petition, and thought it clear, that the statement in it was intended to create a belief, that an old man had been seized with a violent malady in consequence of the weight of irons which had been imposed upon him. However the detention of persons charged with offences against the state might be justified under the late act, and admitting that a bill of indemnity, on the precedent of that of 1801, should be passed by parliament, he begged leave to say, that such an act would not indemnify a gaoler for any cruelty or excess beyond that restraint which was necessary to the safe
 499 500
 Mr. Philips  rose for the purpose of confirming his hon. friend's representation of Ogden's case. The fact alleged was, that the distemper had been so much increased by the treatment he received, as to render a severe operation necessary, though it was undoubtedly fortunate that it had been successfully performed.
 Mr. Sumner , with great warmth, appealed to the House, whether they did not recollect the hon. baronet's concurrence with the report.
 Mr. H. Sumner  said, it so happened, that he could speak to the falsehood of the allegations in Ogden's petition. With respect to that petition, he could bring forward twenty witnesses to prove, that Ogden himself had contradicted many of the allegations in it. He could speak positively on this subject; for an hon. friend of his, one of the magistrates for the county of Surrey, had visited the gaol, and inquired into the fact of Ogden's case. It certainly was true that the prisoner had been put in irons, but not that he had been heavily ironed: and on a representation being made to the secretary of state, the irons were taken off. It was expressly proved by Mr. Dickson, the most respect-
 497
 Mr. Brougham  said, he had to beg the attention of the House to a petition from
 456 457 458 459 460 l.
 Mr. Brougham  agreed entirely with his hon. friend. The irresistible case which he had made out in favour of pure justice was such as could not but carry its object. He was extremely glad to find that there was no objection made to it, but with regard to the proper mode of proceeding. He could not help strongly urging on his hon. friend the necessity of a motion for an inquiry.
 Mr. John Smith  said, he had supposed that the present motion was to be confined to the case of Ward, and with this supposition he had resolved to vote against it. No man could believe one word of Ward's petition. If falsehood was detected in one part, that was good ground for discrediting the whole. The part, then, that reflected on the magistrates of Nottingham was most false. He had no
 481 482
 Mr. Warre  congratulated the House that an inquiry would shortly take place. The machinery for the desired alteration was already in existence.
 Mr. Taylor  then withdrew his motion, and gave notice that he would to-morrow move for a committee of inquiry.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  said, he had brought forward his motion merely for the purpose of having the matter considered. He had thought it his duty to bring the question before the House, and it had struck him that the way in which he had done it was the best in which it could be discussed. He was sure the House could and would entertain it. It was of no consequence to him in what manner it was done, provided its object was effected; and therefore, with the leave of the House, he would withdraw his motion, He only wished to impress the House with the necessity there was of having something done on the subject.
 Mr. M. A. Taylor  rose to call the attention of the House to a subject which was of great importance to the country. He wished particularly that his majesty's ministers would attend to the statement he was about to make, as it was impossible, if a moment's consideration were given to the subject, that there could be more than one feeling as to the necessity of some remedy being applied to the very great evil complained of, as he could not suppose that any member would say that the four northern counties ought to be excluded from the ordinary administration of justice. Every member of the House knew, that throughout the three kingdoms, with the exception of the counties of Cumberland, Northumberland, Durham, and the town and county of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, there were regular gaol deliveries twice a year, as courts of assize and sittings at Nisi Prius were held twice a year in the different counties, with the exception of those mentioned. Bristol, he believed, was the only exception, but he hoped such regulations would be adopted as would give that city also the same enjoyment of the laws as the other parts of the country possessed. Why those counties were deprived of the privileges enjoyed by the rest of the country, he was at a loss to determine. Those counties were as rich, as well peopled, and as deserving of protection as any other part of the kingdom. Would it be said that though those counties were as fully peopled as any others, yet they were less addicted to crime than the other inhabitants of the country? He feared that such a reason as that could not be assigned, for their being deprived of the protection enjoyed by the other parts of the country. It was well known that in the northern counties many persons had been in prison for the last three months, to take their trial, not at the next spring, but at the next summer assizes. Thus a number of persons were to be confined from nine to eleven months before their guilt
 445 446 447 l. 448 449
 Mr. Lamb  wished to say a few words in explanation of the vote which he should give. The chief allegations in the petitions were for unjust detention. The allegations of ill-treatment were comparatively few. If the motion had been for a committee to inquire into the truth of the allegations of ill-treatment, he would not have objected to it. But the present motion was in such general terms, that it involved questions which ought not to be sent to a committee, especially while there was a secret committee now sitting by appointment of the House, whose inquiries were directed to the general question. With this view he felt it his duty to vote against the motion.
 Mr. W. Smith  agreed intirely with the motion of the hon. gentleman. He had received a letter, indeed, which convinced him that some alterations in the administration of justice was absolutely necessary in the north of England.
 Mr. Wilberforce  acknowledged having represented Mr. Aris, late governor of the Middlesex House of Correction, as a man of humanity, and stated that his authority for having done so, was the rev. Mr. Owen, chaplain-general, who for many months had been in the habit of visiting the prison, and was well acquainted with its condition and management. He requested, in return, that the hon. baronet would deal as candidly with him, and state his authority for the story he had told regarding the bird wantonly killed by Mr. Aris. There were, he confessed, some money transactions in which Mr. Aris was concerned which justified his removal, but he did not recollect that any act was proved against him which amounted to an impeachment of his humanity. With respect to the question before the House, he thought that all the presumptions  were 492 s.
 Mr. Wilberforce.  asked, if Mr. Bird had spoken from his own knowledge? but no answer was given.
 Sir W. Guise  read a letter from a respectable clergyman, a magistrate who had taken pains to investigate the case, confirming the statement that had been made respecting Bagguley, by the hon. gentleman who had just sat down; more especially as to the fact of the warm bath, and the various comforts that were supplied him. His general behaviour, it was added was extremely regular, and the governor had not once occasion to find fault with him. He contended, nevertheless, that the House was bound to go into an inquiry wherever a grievance was alleged, and therefore thought it right to support the motion.
 Sir C. Monck  expressed his surprise at the opposition of the hon. and learned gentleman to the motion of his hon. friend. He had expected that an amended motion, rather than the previous question, would have been submitted. The address was proposed on the ground of a notorious defect in our judicial system; and whilst he admitted that the administration of justice was pure, he wished also to see it prompt in every part of the country. A prompt administration was of the essence of justice, for delay might render its decisions useless, whatever were their wisdom or integrity. The northern counties, whilst they contributed equally to the burthens, laboured under various disadvantages; but the one now under consideration was peculiarly grievous. They were not at a greater distance from the seat of government than Cornwall, where the assizes were held twice a-year. It might be said, that they were held but once at Bristol; but at Bristol, a man committed for any offence might remove himself, if he thought fit, to the county gaol, and by this means accelerate his trial. With regard to the proposed mea-
 451 l.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, that he had always been impressed with the expediency of having the assizes in the northern counties twice in the year, and thanked his hon. friend for the motion he had submitted to the House.
 Sir S. Romilly  observed, that a bill of indemnity being about to be passed, the question now was whether it should be done without inquiry, when gross abuse of the power intrusted was imputed to ministers. He begged the House to recollect, that though bills of indemnity had before been agreed to after the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, yet never in any other instance than the present, after a committee had sat and made its report; the notoriety of the facts was therefore put out of the case, and a sort of grand jury (most extraordinarily constituted, having power to examine all the evidence for the accused, and none for the accuser) was appointed to make some sort of investigation. Why, then, should not these petitions go before them, or before some other tribunal better selected? It was asserted that people had been dragged about the country in fetters, as proofs to the inhabitants of an existing plot; and the question was, whether unnecessary severity had not been employed; than which there could not be a subject more requiring the 'interposition of parliament. His principal object in rising was, to refute a statement made by the noble lord, in the humble hope of influencing some few
 493 494 495 496
 Sir W. Lemon  said, there was no man in England less disposed than himself to suspect the noble lord at the head of the home department, of any disposition to oppress. He did not think that his majesty's ministers were desirous of using that law, which he, with other members, had felt it their duty to oppose, for any bad purpose; but petitions- were now presented from different persons complaining of great oppressions. Though the government might not wish to sanction such conduct, the persons acting under them might possibly have been guilty. Some of the petitions appeared not to be borne out by fact, perhaps none of them were, but still the House was bound to inquire into the acts alleged to have taken place under the operation of the measure, as it was their paramount duty to investigate all cases of grievance that were submitted to them.
 Mr. Bennet  said, that most of what he had stated had fallen within his own observation. He had seen and tasted some of the bread lately in use, and he found it sour and disagreeable. He had himself made inquiries on the subject, and it was admitted to him that the bread before in use, was bad, that formerly it used to be baked in tins, but that at present it was made like the bread in common use. With respect to the white-washing and the cleaning of the prison, he had seen it himself, and the worthy baronet might also have seen it, if as a magistrate he had attended to his duty and been present.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  rose, pursuant to the notice he had given on this subject. It would, he said, be unnecessary for him to take up the time of the House by any arguments in support of the motion which he intended to submit. That some evils existed in the City Prisons was admitted by most of the honourable members who had spoken upon the subject. He himself admitted that something, and a good deal, might be done for ameliorating the condition of the prisoners, and also, that some alterations in the prisons themselves were necessary; but he could not allow that all the complaints which had been made in the House on the subject were well-founded. When a greater number of prisoners were confined in the prisons than was convenient, the noble secretary of state, whose particular department embraced a superintendence over them, was always most ready to remove the too great number. With respect to the complaints which had been made against the magistrates of London, he thought they were unfounded, and he was certain that his hon. friend (Mr. Bennet) would find it so on more strict
 502
 Mr. Bennet  observed, that it was not his intention to oppose the motion, but he wished to offer one or two remarks on what he had said upon the subject on a
 503 squalor carceris 504
 Mr. Lyltelton  trusted, that the House would not neglect any thing which it was their duty to do, from a consideration of what might be done in another place. He had, however, no doubt that the humane and energetic arguments which his hon. friend had used in support of the measure, would also have their effect in the other place alluded to. With respect to a tax on the use of climbing boys, he thought that such a plan would not have the intended effect. It might operate certainly
 508
 Mr. Bennet  said, that the number of petitions which had been presented to the House was a proof that the present practice was very generally admitted to be an evil, which ought to be got rid of as soon as possible. It was with that view he had brought in his bill, and now an objection was started, that there were a number of
 507
 Sir C. Burrell  thought the bill proposed by the hon. gentleman would be beneficial, by putting the rich and the poor on an equal footing. It had been most justly said by the late Mr. Fox, that, without a violation of the laws of property, he could not see how the game laws could be much altered at present.
 Mr. Wynn  having moved the farther consideration of the report of this bill, said, he was desirous of proposing a clause, which might obviate an objection made when the bill was going through the committee. The objection was, that in some counties there were separate general sessions of the peace and quarter sessions, holden for the different divisions of such counties, and that in such places the session might elapse without the bill being taken any notice of. To prevent this, he should propose the following clause:—"And whereas in some counties there are separate general sessions of the peace, and quarter sessions holden for the different divisions of such counties: be it further enacted, that in all such cases the high sheriff shall summon a general session of all the justices of the peace for such county, by public advertisement, to be holden at such place where such general sessions or meetings are usually holden, upon some day not more than two months
 ‡ 511
 Mr. Wynn  said, that the bill provided for the erection of many booths in which the undisputed voters might be received. There was, besides, to be another booth in which the returning officer should sit to decide upon any such questions as that of residence. This would, in his opinion, obviate the inconvenience. The returning officer would thus be enabled to settle disputed cases, while the poll was going on without interruption in the other booths.
 Mr. Marryat  feared that the bill would throw an unnecessary expense upon candidates, by obliging them to bring up voters at a time when there was no occasion for them. For this and other reasons he was desirous that it should be postponed.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that the number of booths for receiving votes which the bill provided would obviate the inconvenience apprehended. It did not matter how long the returning officer might be deciding upon a disputed vote, because, in the meantime, the election would be going on in the other booths. From all he had heard upon the subject, the opinion seemed to be, that any candidate who, on the two first days, was not able to bring up 400 electors, could have no chance of success. Such being the case, would they now, by postponing the bill, leave all the cities and counties throughout the kingdom subject to the inconvenience, and candidates to the unnecessary expense of a protracted election? This might be done as the law stood at present, by any individual who could on each day bring up seven electors. There were numerous instances of this. In Devonshire the poll was kept open for three days by a person who had only nineteen votes. In Bristol it was not closed for nine or ten days. In the county of Berks it was kept open for fifteen days by an individual who Gould bring forward only 500 votes. He remembered a borough, in which there were only 200 electors, and in which the poll was not closed in it for eleven days. Such were the evils which were intended to be provided against by the measure.
 514
 General Thornton  was of opinion, that the clause would increase the expense of bringing down the outlying voters; an exception should therefore be made in their favour, or else the clause should be withdrawn. Instances had occurred of the poll having been kept open after the third candidate had withdrawn, to enable the second candidate to get to the head of the poll.
 Mr. Wynn  thought he had cause to complain of the proceeding of the hon. gentleman, as the bill had already been put off for ten days, that there might be ample time to consider the subject. He should move that the bill be re-committed for to-morrow, and he hoped it would be read a third time the next day. If gentlemen would look to the case of Norwich, they would find that 3000 voters had polled in the course of two days. That fact appeared to him a sufficient justification of the clause in the bill respecting the 400 voters that were required to poll in the course of two days.
 Mr. G. Bankes  professed himself wholly incompetent to execute the task which the hon. member for Carlisle wished him to undertake. All he desired was, to make the game laws something better if he could. The omission which the proposed bill tended to supply, appeared to him to be a casual one, and easily to be remedied.
 Mr. G. Bankes  said, that in the motion which he was about to make, he expected the support, not of those members alone who were anxious to protect the game of the country, but of those also who were solicitous to diminish the number of offences connected with the unlawful destruction of ganie. Most of these offences would be got rid of, if the legislature could effectually prevent the buying and selling of game; for it seldom happened that poachers killed game for sustenance, or for the mere gratification, of their own tastes. As the law stood at present, all persons, qualified and unqualified, were forbidden to sell game. Unqualified persons were also virtually forbidden to purchase game, but there was no such restriction on qualified persons. His wish was to put all persons on the same footing in this respect; and by the bill, for which he was about to move, to enact, that all persons, qualified or not, should be liable to the same penalties for buying game as those inflicted by the existing law on unqualified persons so purchasing it. The hon. gentleman then moved, "That leave be given to bring in a Bill for the farther preventing of offences connected with the unlawful destruction and sale of game."
 Mr. Brougham  said, he was a friend to the principle of the bill, and to most of its details; but he had some doubts as to the number of 400. Perhaps it would be better to have a smaller number of voters or a greater number of days. An objection might also be made to throwing the expense of the candidates upon the electors, and perhaps the present time might be regarded as peculiarly unfit. The clause respecting the assessment to the land tax, was much to be approved of, as since the redemption of the land tax the present mode was almost equal to a forfeiture of the qualification.
 Mr. Barnett  feared it would be attended with some evil, if, according to the provisions of the clause in question, it became necessary that 400 voters should have polled on the second day. He knew that in the place which he had the honour of representing, the question of residence was frequently agitated, and often gave rise to such delay as would render it very difficult to poll 400 voters by the close of the second day.
 Mr. Curwen,  thought the proposition of the hon. gentleman quite inadequate to the attainment of the object in view. It would only go to make the game laws still more odious than they were. He was by no means one of those who thought this not a fit subject for legislation. On the contrary, he was fully impressed with the advantages of increasing the inducements to gentlemen to reside in the country, by protecting the game for their amusement. But while the present oppressive and unjust code of laws existed on the subject, it was in vain to think of putting an end to the crimes which they generated. At present the right of game was confined to landed proprietors. Now it was well known that in this country the proportion
 509
 Mr. Warre  was surprised that his hon. friend could imagine that in the present state, temper, and constitution of society, any legislative measure could effectually prevent the sale of game. But two years ago an hon. member brought in a bill on this subject, the enactments of which were so severe that it was deemed expedient to repeal it last session. The hon. member who had just sat down, had given his hon. friend good counsel, although it would be no easy task to set about reforming the whole system of the game laws. On this subject he had that morning met with a passage in Mr. Justice Blackstone, which he would read to the House. It was as follows:—"Though the forest laws are now mitigated, and by degrees grown entirely obsolete, yet from this root has sprung a bastard slip, known by the name of the game law, now arrived to, and wantoning in, its highest vigour: both founded upon the same unreasonable notions of permanent property in wild creatures; and both productive of the same tyranny to the commons; but with this difference, that the forest laws established only one mighty hunter throughout the land, the game laws have raised a little Nimrod in every manor." * *
 Mr. warre  gave full credit to the statement made by his hon. friend, as to the probability of the prisons appearing in a court dress on the day the committee might visit them. He remembered that when as a member of a committee appointed about two years ago to examine into the state of the borough Compter, he went with some of his brother committee men to inspect it; they found glaziers, bricklayers, &c. as numerous almost as the prisoners, busily employed in making arrangements for the visit of the committee, which was, however, made a little sooner than they expected it. He had no doubt that recourse would be had to similar expedients at present. With respect to the necessity of a strict and frequent investigation of the state of the prisons, there could not exist a doubt in the minds of any who had given the subject the slightest consideration. He would state to the House one case which called loudly for inquiry. It was not a case resting on report. It was on the sworn depositions of several persons. It was the report of an inquest held before Hugh Lewis, esq. the coroner, on the body of a man, named John Birdie, aged 37, who died in Tothill-fields prison. From the deposition of the turnkey it appeared, that the deceased had been confined along with twenty seven persons in a room which was only ten feet by six. It appeared farther on the inquest, from the evidence of Mr. Hanbury, the surgeon,
 506
 Mr. M. A. Taylor , pursuant to the notice he gave yesterday, moved, "That a Select Committee be appointed to consider whether any and what steps may be necessary to be taken to give to the counties of Westmorland, Cumberland, Northumberland, and Durham, and the town and county of Newcastle upon Tyne, the same advantages of assizes twice in each year as are now possessed by all the other counties in England and Wales; and to report their opinion thereupon to the House."—The motion was agreed to, and a committee was accordingly appointed.
 Mr. Lushington  expressed his hopes, that the bill would be put into such a shape as would secure its passing into a law.
 Sir W. Burroughs  said, that the bill ought to be recommitted. Should that not be agreed to, he should feel it his duty to move that the House be counted.
 Sir W. Burroughs  could not but apprehend that the bill would cause great inconvenience and unnecessary expense, in many cases, to candidates whose strength lay in non-resident electors. In the heat of an expected contest they would naturally be induced to bring up as many voters as the bill required, even when there was no occasion for them.
 Sir. W. Burroughs  would agree that there were some objections to the bill. In the borough which he represented, many of the electors lived at some distance from the place in which the election was held. Some as far as ten or twelve miles. The bill, with respect to many, would have the effect either of disfranchising them, or of throwing upon candidates the unnecessary expense of bringing up non-resident electors. He feared that some of its provisions held out no small temptation to riot.
 Mr. Lamb  said, he felt considerable alarm from many provisions of the bill. The necessity that 400 voters should have polled on the second day, unless it could be proved that they were prevented by riot from making their appearance, went to place a dangerous kind of power in the hands of the returning officer. That power being subject to inquiry before the House, would be hardly a sufficient guard against the abuse of it. The returning officer by this means might be enabled to decide immediately upon the election of a candidate, in cases where, if not prevented by riot from voting, the other candidate might have had a superior number of electors. It might frequently happen, as it did in the late election for Norfolk, that a candidate could not bring up a sufficient number of voters at the time provided by the act. For these reasons he was desirous that such parts of the bill as were questionable might be either postponed or their operations merely tried at any elections which might take place during the sitting of the present parliament.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, he knew many instances of election, in which 400 voters were nor polled on the two first days, nor upon any day up to the tenth. The clause requiring that such a number should poll, would have the effect of placing within the reach of the returning officer a great degree of partiality in the exercise of his power. He might continue to object to any single vote even for the space of two hours.
 Mr. Wilberforce  said, it did not appear to him, that it was too much to require, that 400 voters should have polled on the second day. The clause, which made an exception to this, in the event of riot, so far from encouraging that evil, would, he thought, contribute to lessen it. Persons would then be more cautious in commencing any disturbance to prevent voters from attending at the polling places, because such disturbance would naturally give rise to a suspicion that it originated in unworthy motives. The bill did not require that each candidate should, on the second day, have polled 400 voters, but that 400 on the whole should have voted. As to the inconvenience of bringing up non-resident voters, he believed, whatever the candidates might feel upon the score of expense, that such voters had no objection to come occasionally as well to see their friends, as from some other little considerations that might be of service to them. The clause could not be attended with inconvenience to the candidate, whose strength lay principally in non-resident voters.
 Sir W. Curtis  complained, that the statements made by the hon. gentleman were highly exaggerated. He did not mean to charge the hon. member with stating that which was not true; but he considered that the statements would not bear him out in the way he put them. It had been said, that the provisions given to the prisoners were scanty as to quantity, and their quality was bad. He denied the fact. Every prisoner was allowed four pounds of good meat per week, and 14 ounces of bread per day; and he had no hesitation in saying, that the bread was of as good quality as any gentleman in the House would desire to eat. The hon. gentleman had said, that preparation had been made in the prison within a few days in order to receive the committee; but he could declare, upon his honour, that no alteration whatever had been made with that view, and that no hints, as far as he could learn, had been given to any person of the intended visit of the committee. It was true that some of the windows had not long ago been wantonly broken by the prisoners, and the magistrates refused to have them repaired, unless the prisoners themselves undertook it, or gave up the names of those who were concerned in it. The prisoners refused to give up the names, and they were made to feel the effects of their own ill-conduct. With respect to the work which had been done on Sunday, he could only say, that he had not heard of the circumstance before. But he would ask the House whether it was right, that they who were imprisoned
 505
 Lord Milton  said, it was not his intention to offer any remarks on the nature of the bill which had been brought in by his hon. friend. He thought it was one which did his hon. friend much credit, and he wished it success; but he could not avoid expressing his opinion, that his hon. friend was proceeding too hastily. There were, it was known, many chimneys which could only be swept by climbing boys, and which would be rendered useless if the present bill was passed. Under these considerations, he thought it would be better for the House to adopt a middle course, and without making such a general enactment at once to give particular encouragement to those persons who swept chimneys by means of machinery. If this were done, and a heavy tax laid upon the employment of climbing boys, he thought it would in the course of time have the effect of abolishing the practice altogether.
 Lord Milton  did not think that the clause in question could be attended with the inconveniencies which some gentlemen seemed to apprehend. The committee to which the measure was referred for consideration, were not of opinion that to require 400 persons to have polled on the second day, could be of any inconvenience. An objection was made in the committee, that an unfair advantage might be taken of the clause against those candidates whose strength lay principally in non-resident electors. He did not think that any danger of an unfair election could arise from this. The only thing he wished to suggest was, that throughout the bill, wherever the word polled occurred it might be struck out, for the purpose of inserting the words "tendered their votes." This, in his mind, would be a considerable improvement
 Lord Milton  hoped his hon. friend would recollect, that his objections were not made to the proposed measure  per se.
 Mr. peel  observed, that he did not understand his right hon. friend to say that he looked upon the bill as one to provide for; the abolition of tithe. A proof of this was, that his right hon. friend had acquiesced in the motion for bringing it in. He merely recommended that the House should use some caution in countenancing a measure for the removal of a practice upon which the country had acted for centuries. It would not, in his opinion, be difficult to show, that, however they might in appearance be founded on equality, the application of the same principle of prescription to tithes as to other property would be very unjust. This bill would rather contribute to increase, than to suppress litigation. The statement that there were now 120 causes pending in the court of exchequer might, if not explained, seem to make against the clergy. The truth was, that only 69 of these causes had been instituted by the clergy. Only 35 of them had been commenced within the last three years. That did not amount to twelve in each year, which was no proof of excessive litigation. He should reserve to another stage of the bill whatever objections he had to make.
 Lord Castlereagh  admitted that the subject was one of great importance. This, however, was not the time for proposing any objections against it or arguments in its favour. It would be better to wait until they had an opportunity of seeing the bill. They would then be better able to judge of its objects. He did not understand his right hon. friend to say any thing that could tend to prejudice the House against the measure. He merely recommended caution in the adoption of it. When any legislative regulations were proposed with respect to tithes, they should be approached with the same caution as those proposed with respect to other property. He could not collect from any thing which had fallen from his right hon. friend, that he was inclined to bar a fair discussion. He merely recommended that church property, being as sacred as any other, should be touched with the same caution.
 Mr. Bennet  said he rose to do what he conceived to be but an act of justice. At the conclusion of the last session he had presented a petition complaining of the conduct of one of the Irish judges, in his observations on a case of murder in a duel. That petition had been delivered to him in the middle of the session, and contained very serious allegations, which were, however, couched in such strong language, that he told the person who gave it to him that he could not present to the House any such petition. Afterwards he had seen the published trial, and the terms of the petition being moderated, he consented to present it. He had since, however, learned, from several persons of high consideration and respectability, that there was no foundation whatever for the charges. He had also had a communication from the learned judge himself, for whom, he begged leave to say, he entertained the highest respect. He was now convinced that the allega-
 558
 Mr. Peel  complimented the hon. gentleman on the very proper and liberal manner in which he had conducted himself on this occasion. So far was he from being sorry at the circumstance, that he was extremely happy an opportunity had thus been afforded of furnishing so public a refutation of the calumny in question. Had he been in England at the period in the last session when the petition was presented, his knowledge of the integrity of judge Day would have induced him to beg the House to suspend their opinion on the allegations which it contained. Since that time the learned judge had put him in possession of the most satisfactory evidence on the subject, namely, his private note book, which showed, that so far was he from having conducted himself in the way imputed to him, that he had acted in a manner most consistent with the dignity
 559
 Sir Robert Peel  rose to make his promised motion on a subject, the importance of which increased more and more on every consideration of it. About fifteen years ago he had brought in a bill for the Regulation of Apprentices in Cotton Manufactories. At that time they were the description of persons most employed in those manufactories He himself had a thousand of them, and felt the necessity of some regulation with respect to them. Since that time, however, the business had been much extended. Manufactories were established in large towns, and the proprietors availed themselves of all the poor population of those towns. In Manchester alone 20,000 persons Were employed in the cotton manufactories, and in the whole of England about three times that number. The business was of a peculiar nature, requiring of necessity that adults and children should work in the same rooms and at the same hours. It was notorious that children of a very tender age were dragged from their beds some hours before day light, and confined in the factories not less than fifteen hours; and it was also notoriously the opinion of the faculty, that no children of eight or nine years of age could bear that degree of hardship with impunity to their health and constitution. It had been urged by the humane, that there might be two sets of young labourers for one set of adults. He was afraid this would produce more harm than good. The better way would be to shorten the time of working for adults as well as for children; and to prevent the introduction of the latter at a very early age. Those who were employers of the children, seeing them from day to day, were not so sensible of the injury that they sustained from this practice as strangers, who were strongly impressed by it. In fact, they were prevented from growing to their full size. In consequence, Manchester, which used to furnish numerous recruits for the army, was now wholly unproductive in that respect. He hoped the House would allow him to bring in the Bill that night; he
 560
 Mr. Peel  wished to observe, that the bill now proposed to be brought in, was introduced in 1815: it was then withdrawn, as it was contended, that there was not sufficient evidence on the subject before the House. In 1816, a committee sat for the purpose of investigation. A bill was not introduced last year from the indisposition of the mover; but that was no reason why one should not be introduced now. It was no argument against such a bill that some factories were well regulated. If same factories were well regulated at present, that was a reason for the House adopting the regulations on which those factories were conducted. With respect to the instance of misconduct in Lancashire, which had been alluded to, it was proved that children were employed there fifteen hours a day, and after any stoppage, from five in the morning till ten in the evening—seventeen hours, and this often for three weeks at a time. On the Sunday they were employed from six in the morning till twelve, in cleaning the machinery. The medical men examined by the committee were some of them related to manufacturers, and well acquainted with factories. It was on evidence, that children had even been employed at an age as early as five, and some were employed under the age of seven. Could any person say, that a child of seven years of age ought to be employed fourteen hours? Was it necessary to have the evidence of medical men to prove that to employ a child of seven years of age was unfavourable to health? At the same time, he allowed that the subject was not without difficulty. A sort of personal reflection
 564
 Mr. Bankes,  conceiving that the bill would not tend to suppress the vice of gaming, moved that it be read a second time on that day six months.
 Lord A. Hamilton  presented petitions from William Robertson of Meikle Govan, and from William Murray and David Smith in Calton of Glasgow, complaining of the Operation of the Habeas Corpus Suspension Act, and praying for redress.
 Lord A. Hamilton  thought it very natural for the petitioners to imagine that they were detained under the Suspension act, nor could he conceive, why, if they were properly confined, they had been discharged without being brought to trial.
 Mr. Philips  strongly objected to the adoption of any measure of this description, and denied that the employment of children in the cotton factories operated, as had been described, to stint their growth, impair their comfort, or scatter disease amongst them. If he conceived that the establishment with which he was connected, though he was only what was called a sleeping partner in it, scattered disease and death in the manner which had been described, he should take shame to himself if he did not immediately attempt to remedy the evil. The fact was, however, that that establishment had been conducted in such a manner that it was an important benefit to the poor, and an example to other factories. In this, however, he himself had no merit, for the whole was done independently of him. During the twenty-seven years which that establishment had existed, no contagious disease had ever been known in it; and during eleven of those years returns of the state of health had regularly been made, and the sickness amounted only to a small fraction per cent. Out of a thousand persons employed, the whole sum paid to them in poors-rates did not exceed 5 l 562
 Mr. Philips , in explanation, observed, that the bill of 1802 was completely a dead letter, but that the manufactories were now in a far better state than they were at that time. The hon. member paid several compliments to the worthy baronet who had introduced the bill.
 Mr. Brougham  agreed with the noble lord that it was better not to anticipate any objections or arguments upon the bill. He thought, however, that his hon. and learned friend was very justifiable in the remarks he had made upon what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman opposite. His (Mr. Brougham's) habitual veneration for that right hon. judge induced him to pay the utmost attention to what had fallen from him, and it did strike him that the object of his language was, to stigmatize the measure in its birth, and to set it forth to the world as one by which it was meant to trench upon the property of the church. It was now stated, that such was not his intention, but merely to caution the House against rash legislation. He wished just to mention one thing, which would show what it was the bill was meant to remedy, and the groundlessness of the clamour that was raised against it. What he should mention was, the right of composition. Composition real was legal 248 years back. Suppose a composition of that kind effected while it was legal, that it was acted upon and no tithe paid, but the parson possessing the land for 200 years. Under such circumstances, the
 557 nullum tempus
 Mr. Brougham  could not immediately recollect the name of the case, but he was quite certain of it.
 Lord Lascelles  said, he felt considerable difficulty on the present subject, which was of the highest importance to the manufacturing districts. It was not all evils that were fit subjects for legislative interference; for instance, he highly applauded the bill of an hon. friend of his, respecting chimney-sweepers. But in the present case it should be recollected, that the individuals who were the objects of the hon. gentleman's proposition were free labourers. This excited his jealousy; for, were the principle of interference with free labourers once admitted, it was difficult to say how far it might not be carried. If there existed any thing radically vicious in the system, it ought to be inquired into. In fact, a parliamentary inquiry had taken place by a committee in 1816, and he could not help expressing his surprise, if the evils existed described by the hon. baronet, that no legislative measure had sooner been proposed. When the House were about to legislate on a large scale, they ought at least not to do so on  ex-parte ex-parte
 Mr. Ogle  moved the order of the day for the second reading of this bill.
 Mr. Ogle  remarked on the extent of ginning houses in London. There were more than a thousand of them creating all sorts of mischief. He did not think that the bill, would, interfere with the common law of the laud, he would, however, consent to withdraw it.
 Sir James Graham  was of opinion, that if children who were apprenticed were restrained from working sixteen hours a day, the House ought not to put any restraint upon free labour. As far as went to the relief of apprentices, it was proper to legislate; and he should be ready to go as far as any one in forming any measure for their amelioration. The House must be aware, that a committee upon this subject was appointed in 1815,but nothing final was agreed upon. In 1816 the same committee again sat, and their inquiry was proceeding when the session closed. The committee was not able to lay any report before the House, but they expected to be called upon to resume the inquiry. As nothing had resulted from the labours of that committee, the present bill was founded upon an  ex parte
 Mr. Curwen  observed, that at the passing of the bill in 1802, the manufactories were conducted most infamously, but he could now state, from actual observation, that they were much better managed. The present measure did not appear to him to have been well digested; for instead of weighing the whole of the matters it was intended to embrace, the hon. baronet appeared contented with weighing parts. He thought he might be allowed to put the question, whether it was possible that individuals in the situation of parents, who, it must be generally admitted, had some portion of the milk of human nature where their offspring was concerned, should seek to wear away the health and spirits of their children by
 565
 Mr. Curwen  was surprised to hear the right hon. gentleman take such a view of the case as he had given to the House. He had put the bill into his hands before he had moved for leave to bring it in. He did not then make the same objections against it which had fallen from him that night; nor did he (Mr. Curwen) expect that an attempt would have been made to create a prejudice against it in consequence of the petitions alluded to. With those petitions he had nothing to do.
 Mr. Curwen  rose and said.—Previous to entering on the subject which it is now my duty to submit to the House, I wish to explain and apologize for having taken up a business that would have come so much better from many other members. I was induced to embark in it from the assistance afforded me by one of the ablest and most
 546 * primâ facie, * 547 nullum tempus v. 548 549 tempus est edax return, 550 favorem ecclesiœ, non decimanda) 551 v. 552
 Mr. Lockhart  said, he did not feel that awe and that tremor which the right hon. gentleman seemed to feel upon this bill, arid which he expressed as it were for the purpose of preventing the House from entering upon it. The bill in its object was a most useful one. The object was only to legislate upon one species of property in the same way as was done upon all others. The right hon. gentleman seemed inclined to cast a slur upon the committee and upon the House by the allusions which he had made to the petitions presented last year upon the subject. The committee were not at all influenced by the language of those petitions. He had been a member of that committee, and he never sat with any set of gentlemen who seemed to have more regard for the interests of the church. They, however, had made no objection to the measure. As to the case alluded to of the lawyer and the clergyman who held the tithe, it gave rise to a great deal of litigation, and was by no means an unfit subject to be mentioned in a petition. The bill he considered as one which ought to receive the countenance of the legislature.
 Mr. Lockhart  said, it was impossible to give effect to this bill, for at common law a gaming house was a nuisance, and there was no power vested in magistrates to grant a licence under such circumstances.
 Mr. J. H. Smyth  said, he would not oppose the motion for leave to bring in the bill,
 556
 Mr. Finlay  said, that excepting in one instance, in the county of Lancaster, there was no proof of the existence of any evils which could justify legislative interference. In that case indeed, evils existed of the highest description. But this was a factory conducted under the provisions of an act of parliament—a proof that no law could prevent bad men from doing wicked things. Even in this factory, however, it was proved, that though children were employed fourteen hours, they were notwithstanding in exceeding good health. He warned the House against entertaining any measure, which went, like the present, to interfere with a manufacture of such vital importance. It was the most important ever established in this country; indeed, he believed, it employed more people than all the other manufactures of the country taken together. The exports from it exceeded 20 millions a year; and what was exported was not equal to what the home con-
 563
 Mr. Finlay  said, that these persons had mistaken the fact. They had not been taken up under the Habeas Corpus Suspension, act, for no person whatever had been so confined. He had seen a gentleman who had lately come from Glasgow, who stated to him, that these persons had been examined before magistrates, after they had been
 567
 Mr. W. Smith  thought the principle of the bill would be discussed more advantageously on the second reading, and he merely rose to say, that the measure had its origin in the report of the committee which sat in 1816, which contained fully sufficient grounds for it, although those grounds were certainly not weakened by the additional evidence which had been produced, and shown to particular individuals. He would also remind the House, that a petition had been received from the adult persons in this employment, against
 561
 Mr. Wilberforce  was desirous that the discussion should be reserved till the whole subject should be fully before them. If different systems of management prevailed in the conduct of different factories, that was a sufficient reason for inducing the House to require farther information. His hope and belief was, that a fair inquiry would prove that the interests of the manufacturers and those of humanity were not at variance. Whatever might be the result of the measure, he was sure the House must feel obliged to the hon. baronet. Discussion must lead to useful results. He was convinced that whatever originated with the hon. baronet was the result of experience, prudence, and humanity.
 Sir F. Flood  said, that so far from putting down gaming, this bill went to encourage it. This was evident from the title of the bill, for it professed to have for its object to regulate houses kept for the purposes of play; and regulation, he observed, was not suppression. He thought nothing could he more injurious to property, reputation, and life than the vice of gaming. It had brought many individuals to ruin, had produced great private misery, and had deprived the country of many persons who might otherwise have been useful and valuable members of society. Upon these considerations, it ought to be suppressed but this, he repeated, was a bill which professed to regulate, and not to suppress. Me should, therefore, vote for the amendment, for he could never consent to license the practice, as was done in France, both for gaming and brothelkeep-ing.
 Sir John Jackson  thought, as the House had given their attention to the amelioration of the situation of slaves abroad, that they could not in reason neglect their fellows-subjects at home. It was totally impossible that children kept at work for so many hours could be brought up with a due impression of their moral duties.
 566
 Sir S. Romilly  said, that the bill of last year, in his mind, promised the most extensive and beneficial improvements. So far from seeking to put an end to tithes, the bill sought to strengthen the system throughout, by adopting a principle of tithe more equitable and rational. As to the operation on the minds of members, by the petition mentioned, the right hon. gentleman might as well have attributed the introduction of the bill to the diffusion of the principles of the Spenieeans or of the Hampden club. The ob-
 554
 Sir W. Scott  wished to know the name of the case alluded to by the hon. and learned gentleman.
 Sir W. Scott  believed, that if the petitions which had been presented upon this subject last year were carefully attended to, and the grounds upon which they proceeded duly considered, the House at least upon such grounds as the petitions stated, would not see the necessity of giving the subject any very grave consideration. Many of them related to a. single parish. They were determined upon in about four days. They were all drawn up in the same, or nearly the same terms. They were circulated through the country, and signed by women and
 553
 Mr. Gordon  maintained, that if the corporation of Bath had no objection to the principle of the bill, it ought to be allowed to go into the committee, in which its various details might be fully discussed. There had been petitions from two or three thousand inhabitants of Bath in favour of the measure. The fact was, that the corporation of Bath wished to undertake the job themselves, conceiving that it would be profitable. They had already the superintendence of the Water, the Assembly Rooms, &c. and it would be too much to add thereto that of the Gas Lights.
 Mr. Sheriff Desanges  presented at the bar of the House a Petition from the lord mayor, aldermen, and commons of the city of London, in common council assembled; setting forth, 579 ex-parle 580 581
 Sir Robert Peel  said, he wished to offer a few observations to the House with regard to the nature of the bill. The principle of it was exactly the same as that of the bill which he had brought in in 1815; and he hoped, for the sake of those unhappy children for whose protection it was intended, that he should succeed in his object. When he brought in a bill for regulating the labour of apprentices in cotton mills, in 1802, he told the House that he was an advocate of free labour. He was still an advocate of free labour, and he wished that that principle should not be infringed on. He could not think that little children, who had not a will of their own, could be called free labourers. They were either under the control of a master or a parent. He hoped the House would take these children under their protection. If ever there was a case which deserved the attention of every member of the House, the present was that case. He well knew that many factories were conducted in the most reputable manner; but, at the same time, he knew that there were other factories conducted very differently.
 582
 Sir F. Burdell  said, he was gratified that some legislative interference was about to take place on this subject. They did not want the opinions of physicians to tell them that to make children of a tender age work so many hours was prejudicial to their health as well as to their happiness. To prove the injuriousness of such a system, it was in evidence, at the time night work existed, that the children employed on it were less unhealthy than those who worked in the day, because the former had a few hours of play, and from this circumstance their work, though at a time supposed to be so destructive to health, was found to be less injurious than such unremitting, unrelaxed exertion. He should certainly support the bill.
 Mr. Bennet  presented a Petition from George Bradbury; setting forth, 590
 Mr. Bennet  also presented a Petition from RichardLee, of Holmeforth; setting forth, 591 592
 Mr. Peel  said, that the wish of the author of the bill was, to avoid for the present, the discussion Of it; and to postpone the consideration till it had been committed, and the blanks filled up. Until that period arrived, it was difficult to judge of its nature or effects. Besides those who approved of the whole of the bill, some agreed to that part which fixed the mini-mum of age, and some to the prohibition of night work; from those he hoped in the present stage it would meet With no opposition. When it had been committed and the blanks had been filled up, it was proposed to print it, and circulate it, to collect the sense of the manufactures on the subject. He knew there were also some who opposed any regulation oft the subject, as a matter unfit for legislation. But if it was unfit for legislation, it could hardly be said to be unfit to be entertained. It was objected with a show of plausibility, that it was improper to interfere with free labour; but from the age of the children, and from the situation of the factories, their labour could hardly be said to be free. The masters of the c6t-ton mills fixed the same hours of labour for all the persons employed, and a child could not say, that he would not work nine hours; he must work the ordinary number of hours, or not at all. He was satisfied that a number of mills were well managed, but he repeated, that it was for those which were improperly managed, that legislation was meant. The noble lord had said, that the bill was founded not on the evidence before the committee, but on evidence of a private nature, which was kept in the pocket of the mover of the bill, and which reflected on individuals. He was induced to state what this infor-
 587
 Colonel Palmer  opposed the motion. He was, he said, instructed to state, by the mayor and corporation of Ball), that they did not object to the principle of the measure, but that as the guardians of the interests of their fellow citizens, it appeared to them that as there was much difference of opinion with respect to the merits of the Gas Light, as there was no necessity for the immediate adoption of the invention in Bath, and as improvements were every day making in the preparation and management of the gas itself, it would be better to wait the result of those improvements than to take a hasty step of which they might afterwards repent. It had been said by the friends of the bill, that it was the universal wish of the inhabitants of Bath, that it should be carried. The fact was, however, that a great majority of the owners of property in Bath were adverse to it. The promoters of the measure were shareholders, and other interested persons. The corporation, on the contrary, had no interest in it, but were actuated solely by their zeal for the prosperity of the city. He pledged himself, that whenever it should appear to be the real wish of the majority of householders, and other inhabitants of Bath, to have the gas introduced, the mayor and corporation would not only consent to its introduction, but aid it by every means in their power. There was one clause of the bill to which he wished the attention of the House to be particularly directed, as it clearly manifested the contrariety of opinion which existed on the subject in Bath; he meant the clause by which the property of one of the principal land owners in Bath, earl Manvers, was exempted from the operation of the bill. Another great land owner at Bath, lady Rivers, objected to the bill. If this bill for the partial lighting of Bath, were agreed to, the whole city might be injured, should it prove a nuisance rather than a benefit. He had been one of the warmest advocates of the gas light himself. No man could observe its beauty, and reflect on its economy, without being so; but within the last two days, he had heard some circumstances which rather shook his opinion. If there was any one
 577
 Lord John Thynne  opposed the second reading of the bill.
 Sir B. Hobhouse  hoped the bill would be permitted to go into a committee, when, if its regulations appeared beneficial, the House would do well to forward it through its remaining stages.
 Mr. Davenport  said, that he was a member of the committee appointed to inquire into this subject in the year 1816, and he
 586
 Mr. Protheroe  thought the only question for the House to decide was, in whose
 578
 Mr. Philips  commented on the proceedings which had been resorted to in order to get signatures to the petition which had lately been presented by the hon. baronet from the persons employed in the cotton factories. He entered into some of the particulars of the evidence taken by the committee, which went to prove, that persons were employed at an earlier age, and for longer hours, in weaving, than in the cotton factories. On what principle could they interfere with free labour in cotton factories, and not at the same time regulate the age at which children could be employed in weaving, and the number of hours which they should work? To prove the unhealthy nature of the employment in cotton factories, the matron of the fever ward of the Manchester infirmary had been examined, who stated, that the number of persons employed in such factories, brought to the fever ward, was disproportionately great. He was convinced, at the time this evidence was
 584 l l 585
 Lord Lascelles  did not rise to make a professed opposition to the motion of the hon. baronet, because he had stated that the bill might lie over, the blanks be filled up, and the whole country have proper notice of what was going forward. In one part of the bill he agreed with the hon, baronet, namely, in that part which limited the ages of the children employed in the manufactories. If there was any abuse with regard to the age, it certainly called for the attention of the House. There was one thing which ought to be observed: in former times a great part of the manufactories had been conducted upon streams of water, but lately the in-
 583
 Mr. Curwen  observed, that the clause respecting earl Manvers was copied from the corporation bill. He had had a communication with the corporation of Bath, on the subject of the proposed measure, and although he had offered to guard the interests of that corporation in the bill, by every practicable provision, he was not listened to, but was told that they would depend on the strength of noses in the House of Commons.
 Mr. Curwen  said, that after the fair and candid explanation which had been given, though he had objected to the principle of the bill, he should not oppose it in the present stage.
 Mr. Finlay  was decidedly of opinion that there was no occasion for the bill. It was brought forward on evidence which had never been seen, and which those who opposed the measure had therefore no opportunity of rebutting. He had every reason to believe, that a great many of the facts would turn out to be incorrect. If the House suffered the bill to pass, they would do a great injury to the good works, which required no regulation at all, without being able to compel the bad works to adhere to those regulations, upon which all the benefits of the bill must depend. He maintained, that the limitation of the hours of labour would be so prejudicial to the cotton manufactories, as to remove to foreign countries a very considerable portion of this branch of trade. He was no
 § 588
 Mr. Methuen  observed, that a more respectable body of gentlemen could not exist than the members of the Bath Gas Light Company. He should therefore contribute every thing in his power, to carry their wishes into effect.
 Mr. P. Moore  wished the bill to go into a committee, and expressed his intention, when it got there, to draw the attention of the committee to the prices charged by the Gas Light Companies. For lamps for which they formerly charged 25 s.
 Mr. Dickinson  having moved the second reading of this bill,
 Mr. Bennet  said, that since allusion bad been made to him, he must say that the New Prison stood most obviously in need of improvement. The state of the walls was such as prevented the free circulation of air. Men and women were mixed together in one place. Many other obvious evils called for immediate attention. When the committee saw the accounts of the expenditure, and were asked their opinion, they stated at once that they were such as ought to have been incurred. But this had nothing to do with the question whether the city had managed their funds with due economy and discretion. His hon. friend near him had stated that he had spent 2,400 l
 Mr. Bennet  presented a Petition from Benjamin Whiteley, of Holmfirth, in the parish of Burton, and county of York, setting forth, 593
 Mr. Serjeant Onslow  observed, that the hon. baronet had endeavoured, by a facetious speech, to divert the attention of the House from the subject before it. The hon. baronet, however, in all that speech, had not urged one argument in answer to the reasoning of the hon. gentleman who brought forward the motion. The duty on coals in particular was a heavy tax on the very poorest of the people; and before the city of London could claim such a tax for such objects as the building of prisons, they ought to show how they had expended their former revenue. It was an abuse of terms to call the squandering their money on dinners, drinking, and presents, generosity, while for useful objects they were obliged to demand the imposition of heavy taxes on others. The treatment of the prisoners in the new prison, respecting which so much had been said by the hon. baronet, was altogether irrelevant to the question. Not one word had been said on that subject by the hon. gentleman who brought forward the motion. As the hon. baronet had completely failed in his attempt to answer the hon. mover, he had a right to infer that his statement was unanswerable. He thought the honour of the city was implicated in this affair. He really did not see on what ground they could refuse affording every information to the House, and he should therefore vote for the motion.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  contended, that the city of London had not embezzled any part of the Bridge-house estate: in no one instance had they made gifts of any part of that property. With respect to the 24,000 l l 600 l l l l l l
 Mr. Bennet  suggested the propriety of inserting the number committed, as well as prosecuted, for the forgery of passing of bank notes. Sir J. Mackintosh acceded to the suggestion, and moved, "That there be laid before the House, an account of the number of persons committed or prosecuted for forging notes of the Bank of England, and for uttering or possessing such notes knowing them to be forged, from the 1st January 1816 to the 25th of February 1818; distinguishing the years, the number of such offences respectively, and the number who have suffered death or other punishment."
 General Thornton  rejoiced that a subject which he had brought forward unsuccessfully, was now likely to be attended with success. He had understood that not less than 30,000 forged bank notes were annually returned. This was a very serious evil.
 Mr. B. Shaw  conceived that the question before them was not whether it was correct that the city of London should maintain the gaols for the county of Middlesex. They were sufficiently well acquainted with that corporation to know that they would not take trouble without some adequate remuneration. The county of Surrey supported its own gaols without calling on the city of London for support, and therefore the city of London ought to support its gaols without assistance from Surrey.
 Mr. Barclay  contended, that Southwark received no benefit from the monies paid out of the city funds. Blackfriars-bridge, if it was a benefit to Surrey, had also been a benefit to London. As to the money which had been borrowed for the sewers in St. George's-fields, it was on good security, and would be repaid. Many other sums, issued from the same fund, would, he feared, never be returned. If the city was to apply  in forma pauperis 601
 Mr. Holme Sumner  rose to submit a motion to the House, for the purpose of obtaining from the city of London an Account of their Revenue for the five 3'ears ending the 31st December last. The application which the city had lately made to be allowed to raise money on the credit of the orphan fund, or in other words to be allowed to tax the neighbouring counties, to defray the additional sum of 34,000 l. l 594 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 595 l l l l l l l 596 l l l
 Mr. H. Sumner  in reply, said, that this tax was limited to 1837, but was to expire so much sooner, as the sums charged on it should be discharged. The grant now demanded would, therefore, prolong the duration of the tax. He allowed that a rate on Middlesex, for the maintenance of the city prisons, might be justifiable; but he saw no reason for charging the other neighbouring counties who supported gaols of their own. The manner in which the city had first acquired the control of the Orphans' fund was very suspicious, as they gave a bribe of 1,000 l
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  entered into an explanation of the Orphans' fund. It was originally, he said, 750,000 l l
 Mr Lockhart  deprecated any attempt to excite an improper commiseration for crime, observing, that it was the duty of the Bank to hold out encouragement to artists and chemists with a view to the invention of some paper and colour which could not possibly be imitated, and thus the forgery of bank notes might be guarded against.
 Mr. N. Calvert  did not see any reason why the county of Middlesex should not be rated to the support of the prisoners in London, to which their criminals were committed, but there was no reason for the tax on the adjacent counties, known by the name of the Orphans' fund, being applied to that purpose.
 Mr. Grenfell  professed himself in no way acquainted with the financial system of the city, but he wished to be informed whether the effect of the loan required by the city would be to prolong the present duty on coals?
 Mr. Grenfell  did not intend to enter into the merits of the motion, but should content himself with expressing his thanks to his hon. and learned friend for his very humane and well-timed exertions. He would only suggest to his hon. and learned friend the propriety of combining with the motion of which he had given notice for Tuesday next, a proposition for laying before the House a distinct account of the persons prosecuted for the forgery of notes of 1 l l l 605
 Mr. S. Thornton  understood the question to be, whether the city had funds of their own to effect the purposes in question? He saw no means of answering this question but by inquiring into the income and expenditure of the city. He should therefore certainly support the present motion.
 Sir James Mackintosh  rose to make a motion of which he had given notice, which was framed with a view to show the effect which the bank restriction had upon the increase of crimes connected with forgery. The accounts he should move for were, for the prosecutions for forgery for 14 years before, and 14 years after the restriction of cash payments at the Bank in 1797; and the number of convictions and executions at each period. Of the prosecutions, they had returns which had been formerly moved for, and of the convictions in the late years, they had accounts in the general returns of criminal judicature since 1812. That the Restriction bill should have tended to increase the prosecutions for forgery, was not to be wondered at; but if any one had stated, that they had since that event been multiplied a hundred fold, he would not have been believed; and yet such was the fact. By the accounts which had been produced, it was proved, that the prosecutions at the instance of the Bank for forgery, previously to 1797, were four. The prosecutions for the fourteen years after were 438—so that they were more then centupled. It was necessary, he observed, to ascertain the consequences of this system, the diffusion of depravity, the multiplication of crimes, and the effusion of human blood which had resulted from its existence. When these facts were before the House, it would be felt that something should be done to put an end to such an
 604
 Sir J. Mackintosh  declared that he had no wish to excite improper commiseration for crime, or to take any proceeding likely to weaken the authority of the laws. But while he admitted the hon. gentleman's position, which, however, conveyed no information, namely, that no temptation was an adequate excuse for crime, he would maintain, that any legislature which held out a temptation to crime was a participator in the guilt of its commission. This, indeed, was a proposition which he would never abandon; and it was by the force of this proposition that he was impelled to take measures, with a view to rescue the British legislature from the disgrace of tolerating a system which was peculiarly calculated to tempt men to the commission of crimes.
 Sir James Shaw  observed, that the city gaols were liable not only to the expense of maintaining prisoners from the city, and the county of Middlesex, but likewise from the Crown, and from every county in England. In other counties, the Crown had the nomination of the sheriffs, but this did not subject the Crown to maintain the gaols in these counties: he could not therefore see why the corporation should be liable to the expense of maintaining the gaols of the county of Middlesex, because they bad the right of appointing the sheriffs for that county. He hoped, therefore, that, from every consideration of generosity and justice, they would suffer the bill to pass without calling for the accounts.
 Sir William Curtis  said:—Sir; I have listened with great attention, and I must add with considerable pain, to the speech of the hon. member who has just sat down. The hon. member, in the course of that speech, has thought proper to charge the city of London with having been guilty of gross embezzlement; but he must excuse me, if I say that this is a gross and unwarrantable expression. The city of London has done no such thing, as I am fully prepared to prove. The hon. member insists on the right of inspecting their accounts; and they are willing to give an account—that is, whenever it shall be right, in their opinion. Sir, we have maintained the gaols of London, not for ourselves alone, but for the country at large, and for the county of Middlesex in an immense degree. If, then, we are supporting prisons for other people—if we are providing for prisoners after they have been convicted—if felons and criminals are sent to us from all parts—and if, under such circumstances, our funds are found inadequate, are we not entitled to call upon this House to send us some assistance? With respect to the bill which has been lately introduced, we call on you now to fulfil and complete what you have sanctioned before. The hon. mem-
 597 l 598 599 l
 Sir W. Curtis  replied, that the duty stood at present till 1837, and that he believed the demand of the city would not prolong it for one half year.
 Mr. J. Smith  confirmed all that the hon. and learned gentleman had so eloquently and so feelingly stated, with respect to the numerous instances of fraudulent bankruptcy that yearly occurred. The crime of forgery had also lamentably increased within the last five or six years. Numerous cases of forgery were hushed up from the indisposition of parties to prosecute. The bankers of London had formed a committee for the prosecution of forgeries, in order that no individual pity might interpose between the offence and its punishment, but even this expedient had been found unavailing.
 Sir F. Burdett  could not refrain from expressing his surprise that these villains had been suffered to escape from the punishment due to their crimes. He thought it impossible that there should not be a law in our criminal jurisprudence to meet such cases of blood money. It was highly expedient that the opinion of the judges on this subject should be laid before the House: and he hoped that the hon. member would insist on its being produced.
 The Attorney General  said, that a police officer of the name of Vaughan, who had first been prosecuted for the crime of being accessory to coining before the fact was found guilty. The point whether, as the law stood, a person could be so convicted, having been reserved for the opinion of the twelve judges, certain other persons who stood in a similar situation were also prosecuted for the same crime and found guilty. The case of the first of these persons, and not that of Brock, Pelham, and Power, came to be argued before the twelve judges who thought the facts charged did not amount to the crime imputed to him. Though the case of Brock, Pelham, and Power had not been argued before the Judges, it was exactly of a similar nature with the other, and it was deemed advisable that a pardon should be extended also to them. The person whose case had been argued before the judges had also been convicted on a charge of a different nature, of a conspiracy to procure the commission of certain crimes, but Brock, Power, and Pelham had only been convicted of the crime which he had already mentioned. He could say this much, that a more serious desire could not be entertained of bringing criminals to justice than was entertained in all these prosecutions. As far as he himself had been concerned, he would say that he had never in his life laboured with a more sincere desire of success in any case than he had done. The offence was enormous and could not fail of being held in the greatest abhorrence. The persons deserved to suffer the most condign punishment; but the law was defective, and, under such circumstances, they were pardoned.
 The Attorney General  observed, that it was considered the first decision decided also the second case. Under these circumstances, those whose duty it was to advise the Crown, thought it their duty to take care that the sentence of the law, in the case of Brock, Pelham, and Power, should not be carried into execution; for, under circumstances, they were of opinion that these men could not be legally executed.
 Sir F. Burdett  observed, that if, as the law stood, these men could not be executed, still it did not appear that they could not be prosecuted for conspiring to take away men's lives for money.
 The Attorney General  observed, that on the trial of Vaughan, an objection had been taken on a point of law, and this point, the learned judge who presided at the trial, reserved for the opinion of the twelve judges. The opinion of the twelve judges, after hearing counsel on this point, was what he had already stated.
 Mr. Bathurst  said, it was not in his power to give any farther explanation on the case of these persons.
 Mr. Bathurst  said, that the information which the hon. member had received as to the free pardon of these men was perfectly correct. The law officers of the Crown, how greatly soever they might wish such criminals to suffer the execution of the law, had found that they could not be brought to punishment. He was glad that this matter had now been agitated, as it was desirable that the public should know the ground on which these persons had been liberated. At the same time, he begged to state, that the law officers had been desired to take into consideration the necessity of introducing an act for amending the law in that respect With
 616
 Mr. Brougham  wished to know if these
 617
 Dr. Phillimore  begged to inform, the House, that he was a member of the committee which had been appointed to examine into the state of the prisons in the city of London; and that, in visiting the prison of Newgate on Monday last, he had received information that three men, of the names of Brock Pelham, and Power, who had been tried at the Old Bailey, and convicted of the crime of having seduced three unfortunate Irishmen into the commission of a capital offence, in counterfeiting the coin, in order to get the rewards for the discovery and conviction of such persons, had received free pardons and been dismissed from that prison. He now wished to know whether that statement was correct; and whether any objection would be made to the production of the judgment on which they were condemned, and the free pardon by which they recovered their liberty. He had heard that, on a previous trial for a similar offence, a doubt had arisen in the mind of the judge who presided, respecting the operation of the law in such cases, and a point was reserved for the decision of the twelve judges, who gave an opinion, that the person in question could not be executed; and, accordingly, he received a free pardon from the Crown. That opinion, it was stated, had influenced the officers of the Crown in the case of Brock, Pelham, and Power; and they had been discharged from custody. This was a matter which required explanation; for he could not conceive any thing more horrible in its consequences, than that such blood-hounds, who had been guilty of so enormous an offence, should be let loose upon society, and have the opportunity of seducing other persons into the commission of crimes.
 Sir Samuel Romilly  having moved, that the act of the 10th and 11th of William 3rd should be entered as read, stated, that he rose for the purpose of moving for leave to bring in a bill to repeal so much of the said act as took away the benefit of clergy from persons convicted of privately stealing goods, wares, or merchandize, to the value of 5 s. 611 s. 612 613 * * 614 *
 Sir. J. Newport  strongly urged his hon. and learned friend to persevere in his efforts to remedy the defects of the law in this respect; and trusted that eventually he would be successful, and that from observing the good which had resulted from the legislative measures already adopted on the recommendation of his hon. and learned friend, the noble and learned individuals in another place would at least hesitate on the expediency of maintaining their principle of abstaining from any changes in the criminal law.
 Lord Milton  said, the House had not been informed as to the manner in which this case came before the twelve judges. This was a most important point, and one on which the House ought to have information.
 Lord Milton  asked if he was to understand, that the point had been reserved in the case of these three persons [No, from the ministerial bench]? Then he was to understand that the point had been reserved on the trial of another person, and that the case of these persons was so similar to that in which the twelve judges had given their opinion, that his majesty's ministers, without any point being reserved in their case, had advised a free pardon to be given to them. It struck his mind that they had acted rather precipitately in this case.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  presented a Petition from the lord mayor, aldermen, and livery of London, in common hall assembled; setting forth, 673 674
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, that the Hall in which the petition was agreed to was one of the most numerous he had ever witnessed, and that only four hands had been held up against the petition.
 Colonel Longfield  presented a Petition from the mayor, sheriffs, and several inhabitants of the city of Cork, and its vicinity; setting forth, 672
 Mr. Bennet  presented a Petition from Samuel Bamford, of Middleton, Lancaster; setting forth, 675 676 l
 Mr. Bennet  also presented a Petition from Elijah Dixon, of Manchester; setting forth, ¶ 677
 Mr. Bennet  also presented a Petition from Robert Pilkington, of Bury, Lancaster; setting forth, 678
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that as to the first question, he apprehended it was not usual for ministers to be required to state their intentions upon the presenting of such a report: with regard to the second question, he could only state that it was not his intention to propose any day when the report should be taken into consideration.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that though he did not intend to propose any thing to the House founded upon the report, yet the right hon. gentleman was, of course, at perfect liberty to do so if he thought it proper or prudent. The opinion just expressed was undoubtedly strong, and considering, that the report had been only once read, it was sufficiently summary: it was no less than that the right hon. gentleman did not believe a syllable it contained, and he of course endeavoured to excite a feeling in the House, and in the country (in both of which he would completely fail) that the report was a production wholly unworthy of notice. What reliance would be placed upon this hasty judgment, either in doors or out of doors, experience would make evident. This was not the first time the country had reason to think the right hon. gentleman not the profoundest oracle that ever sat on the other side of the House. It was not difficult to prophecy, that on the present occasion, as on many others, the right hon. gentleman would not succeed in deluding the public, and in persuading them that there had existed no danger, and that ministers had deserved no credit for their promptitude and their decision. Though the report was not to be taken into consideration on any particular day, yet occasions would be afforded for discussing it. The right hon. gentleman and his friends need not despair of occasions when they might endeavour to renew discontent and alarm. As to the assertion, that the opinion of the committee was nothing but the opinion of government, the right hon. gentleman must know too much of the constitution of that body, to suppose that the resolutions would all be passed without opposition; and it was quite a sufficient ground for appointing a com-
 687
 Lord Folkestone  wished merely to observe, that he had stated to the House lately, that there was no precedent of a bill of indemnity after a suspension of the
 690
 Mr. Bathurst  presented the following
 Mr. Bathurst  maintained, that sir A. Piggott had attended the whole of the sittings of the first committee. He had no reason to know that that learned gentleman would be more engaged this year than he was last year. He knew that he had been several times in the second committee, and therefore, as far as that learned gentleman was concerned, he maintained that there was no information given to the House that he would not attend. Why, it was asked, was the inquiry carried on in a secret committee? The answer was obvious. It was necessary to have a committee of secrecy, as the evidence to be submitted to it was secret. If they acted otherwise, they would not only be breaking faith with the persons who gave them that evidence, but they would prevent the present, or any other government, from ever availing itself of similar evidence. It was impossible to examine the persons who had complained to the House, because it would in that case have been necessary to bring forward also the persons who gave evidence against them. All that was necessary, was to see that there was a  primâ facie
 Mr. Tierney  wished to put two questions to the noble lord,—when he proposed the report should be taken into consideration,—and what measure, if any, he intended to found upon it?
 Mr. Tierney  professed himself very much puzzled to find out the noble lord's reason for moving that it be printed. The noble lord had declared, that the report was not to be taken into consideration by the House; and if so, why it was worth while to print it passed a reasonable man's comprehension. The noble lord was quite right, perhaps, in his avowed opinion of the report; for it was really nothing but a jumble of nonsense. Every syllable that had been foretold had been verified: all the absurdities that satire had invented as likely to form part of this precious document were here embodied in writing, for the amusement of the country. Who the author of this valuable production was, it might be hard to say; but for any information it contained, it would have been much better if the Derby trials had been taken in short-hand, and presented to the House. It was no-
 684 685 686
 Mr. Brougham  said, that if the noble lord was so well informed as to the feelings of the House and of the country; if he thought the disposition of the one or of the other was so favourable to him and his friends, it was singular that, instead of submitting the whole inquiry to the whole parliament, he should have picked out a body for the purpose composed almost entirely of his own special associates and adherents. The noble lord had said that his right hon. friend was at liberty to submit a motion upon the subject of the report if he thought fit to do so; but the noble lord seemed to forget that the whole objection to this document was, that it was unworthy of any attention; that it was futile in its progress, and ridiculous in its conclusion. One objection which he had to this committee was, that it was selected in such a way, and carried on its labours in such a manner, that the country was not likely to derive any benefit from
 688 viva voce? 689
 Sir W Burroughs  wished to ask, whether the committee had examined any  vivâ voce
 Sir N. Colthurst  said, he felt it due to the extreme respectability of those who had signed the petition, and the importance of the subject, to move that it be printed, and he trusted it would receive from the House that attention to which it was entitled.
 Sir W. Curtis  observed, that all he had to say was, that he had attended the hall in question, and that he disapproved of every word of the petition.
 Mr. Bennet,  in pursuance of the notice he had given, rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to repeal and amend various acts of parliament relative to statutable rewards on the conviction of offenders. Those gentlemen in the House who belonged entirely to the profession of the law, being better acquainted with these matters than he was, might be supposed better qualified for the task he had undertaken than he could be; but having been a member of the committee appointed to inquire into the state of the police of
 691 l § 692 l 693
 Sir C. Monck  said, that by the present bill the returning officer could appoint as many constables as he thought necessary. This was a power that might be used for a particular influence; and it seemed desirable that such power should not be given so as to serve a political view.
 Mr. Allan  said, that although the bill did not vary materially from that which passed the House last session, except in the exclusion of a clause, which had excited great discontent among many of the most valuable and best informed constituents, he was, nevertheless, by no means prepared to think it either merited, or would meet with the same support; and feeling as he did, that neither expense nor inconvenience at elections would be pre-
 694 primâ facie 695
 Mr. Marryat  said, that from all he heard it was clear the more the bill was considered, the more it would be found objectionable. What had been done appeared to him unsatisfactory. He objected to the proposed regulations concerning the poll, which applied the same principle to counties and boroughs. The House ought to pause before they passed this bill into a law. If it was applicable to county elections, it might not be so for all places. It tended to compel a candidate to bring up all the non-resident voters in his favour on the first day of the poll. Yet be might not know that he wanted them. The bill would be productive of
 696 divide et impera.
 Mr. Protheroe  objected to the clause of the bill respecting cockades. He wished the bill to be recommitted, as he approved of some parts of it; he should otherwise vote for the amendment.
 Sir W. Burroughs  thought the clause which put an end to the poll at the conclusion of the second day, if 400 voters had not polled, was objectionable. A candidate might object to his adversary's votes, and thus put an end to the election unfairly: for there was not, on the supposition that every vote was objected to, more than 63 seconds allowed to determine on each. The clause too which affixed a penalty on giving away a cockade, would occasion vexatious prosecutions.
 Mr. Hammersley  thought this a selfish bill on the part of the House, and he was sorry to see so little disposition to object to it. The inconvenience that had been alleged as the reason for this bill, was, that the member for Devonshire had been obliged to stand four days before his
 697
 Mr. Wilberforce  thought, that the part of the bill which proposed to put an end to the practice of giving cockades would not answer the purpose. The bill affixed a penalty to the giving away cockades; but the member would be thought a very shabby fellow who did not submit to this additional expense [A member suggested that the penalty was affixed to each offence]. If it was meant to apply to the giving each cockade, it was not so expressed in the bill, nor would it be so interpreted. He remembered prosecutions against a man for exercising the trade of a tailor; and he was proceededagainst separately for several acts done in the same day; lord Kenyon said, that if the man could be prosecuted for different acts in one day, he might as well be sued for penalties on every stitch. He thought it would be better to affix a small penalty, 5 s. s.
 Mr. F. Douglas  approved of the bill,
 698
 Sir J. Graham  objected to the clause, which rendered it no longer necessary for freeholders to adduce a proof that their tenement was assessed to the land tax. He also objected to the payment of the expense of the hustings out of the county rates, and to the power given to the returning officers to appoint any number of constables. The returning officers were not always of the highest description, and might make a job at the county expense. The magistrates were the proper judges of the number of peace officers who were necessary.
 Mr. Lockhart  approved of the general principle of the bill, especially of the part forbidding the distribution of cockades. He had known 30,000 cockades given away at an election, and this signal of party was thus made an engine of bribery, not to the multitude at large, but towards persons of particular trades. He was doubtful, however, whether a simple limitation of the length of polls would not be better than the complicated machinery now introduced, the effect of which it was not easy to foresee.
 General Thornton  expressed a hope that the bill would not proceed any farther.
 Mr. P. Moore  observed, that the effect of some of the restrictions proposed by this bill would be to disfranchise one-third part of his constituents of Coventry. The restriction on the use of cockades was, in his opinion, highly inexpedient, as it tended to discourage an extensive branch of manufacture. This view of the subject had excited a smile in the House; but it was a matter of serious importance to many thousands of industrious individuals who derived their support from the manufacture in question. If the bill was amended, so as to do away with these objections, he should feel it his duty to support it.
 Mr. Wynn  replied. He said, that as the law at present stood, if any one candidate chose, he could keep the poll open to the last moment allowed by the law, which was fifteen days. This he considered as a very great evil. It had been said, that this was a selfish measure on the part of the House. He, on the contrary, viewed it as calculated to relieve
 699 l l 700
 Mr. Peel  observed, that the three reports from the commission alluded to were so voluminous, as to require some time for their consideration. They had been submitted to the examination of the lord chancellor of Ireland, with a view to collect his opinion for the satisfaction of the Irish government, as to the arrangements proposed, and from his own knowledge he could state, that that learned lord had, in conjunction with the master of the rolls, devoted a great deal of attention to the subject. The master of the rolls had, indeed, occupied a great part of the last vacation in considering those reports, and the capacity of that learned person to form a correct judgment upon any subject, could not be questioned by any one who had an opportunity of appreciating his talents. When the opinions of those two learned persons should be communicated to the Irish government, he could assure the right hon. baronet that it was the intention of that government to adopt such measures as the equity of the case should suggest. With regard to the office of the clerk of the pleas, about which so much discussion had taken place, the Irish government had arranged, that the fees of that office should be invested in the public treasury, until a final decision should be pronounced upon that subject, with regard to which an appeal was now pending in the House of Lords. As to the deputy clerk of the pleas, upon whose conduct one of the reports alluded to so particularly animadverted, the Irish government had felt it a duty to dismiss that person not only from that office, but from another office also, which he had held for many years.
 Mr. Peel  said, the hon. gentleman should recollect that the present estimates were only demanded for a year. The country was bound by treaty to keep
 707 708 l
 Mr. Forbes  complained that a list of the officers who received pensions for wounds had not been laid on the table; and regretted that in respect to pensions, the officers of the navy were not placed on an equal footing with the officers of the army. He feared there were many cases of abuse in the granting of pensions to the latter.
 Mr. Forbes  observed, that he had heard of several cases of gross abuse.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer,  in pursuance of notice, moved for leave to bring in a bill to suspend the penalties for receiving bank tokens in certain cases, after the 25th of March instant. The object of this bill was to afford means after the general, circulation of these tokens was stopped, for their being still received for various purposes. If gentlemen going down to the
 711
 General Thornton  thought that if the bank tokens were excluded from circulation, local silver tokens should be excluded also; but he thought it useful that the local tokens should be kept in circula-
 712
 Mr. J. Smith,  though not aware that the price of silver was so high as had been represented, thought that under circumstances it might rise higher. The loans at Paris might materially affect it; but he derived consolation from another point. He had for many years observed the conduct of the Bank of England, and he thought that corporation had the means and used them, of influencing the state of the currency. He thought they possessed those means now, and could protect the public by affording a check to the exportation of bullion. He conceived the present bill might be of considerable service.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he was not prepared for the observation of the hon. gentleman as to the rise in the price of silver, because in many instances
 713
 Mr. Calcraft  expressed his conviction, that a still greater diminution should take place in our military establishment, than what the noble lord had stated. He could not, for instance, see the necessity of 25,936 men for the peace establishment of Great Britain, and 20,058 for that of Ireland. With regard to the numbers voted for the old and new stations, he did not feel himself competent to pronounce any decided opinion, although the amount of force for the former was so much more than in any former peace. But with respect to Great Britain and Ireland, he could not imagine the grounds upon which ministers could think such an establishment necessary; while there were 20,000 of our troops in France, he could not see why a smaller number than 25,936 would not be enough to vote for the present peace establishment of Great Britain. Was there any thing in the internal condition of England, which called for a larger peace establishment than we had in 1792, and that, which amounted only to 15,000 men,
 705
 Mr. Warre  observed, that the noble lord, in his various statements as to the necessity of our home force, seemed wholly to throw out of his contemplation our large army in France.
 Mr. Grenfell  thought the effect of the bill would be, to continue the circulation of tokens without restraint, as no penalties were attached to the future circulation of them. They might not only be received for rent, but be also immediately put into use again, unless a penalty were affixed. However, if it should be otherwise, and silver should not rise, in what mode were the tokens to be transmitted to London? It was incumbent on government to bear this expense, and not to thrust it on gentlemen. It had been said, that government was not concerned in the issue of these tokens, and therefore ought not to defray any expense attending them. He was of a very different opinion, and thought it the duty of government to assist in carrying on the ordinary exchange of the country. The expense would not, perhaps, be considerable; it might not exceed ¾ per cent for forwarding the tokens from all parts, but that expense ought to fail on government, and not on the country bankers, especially as they had been so active, and had afforded such facilities in the distribution of the late coinage.
 Mr. C. Long  declared his readiness to concur in any suggestions that might be proposed by the hon. member for effecting so desirable an object; but he had flattered himself that his own exertions in respect to that point, had not been altogether unavailing.
 Mr. Babington  expressed a hope that the soldiers receiving pensions might be freed from certain inconveniences to which he understood they were at present exposed.
 Mr. F. Lewis  stated, that the current price of silver that day was 5 s. d. s. d s. d.
 Sir W. Burroughs  denied that it was the usage to keep up in Ireland a large military establishment. In the American war the people of that country had to complain of the total inadequacy of the force to meet the dangers then arising from the apprehension of an invasion. There were not 5,000 soldiers in Ireland when the volunteers were embodied. He was proud of the account the House had received that night from authority, as to the fortitude and magnanimity of its people under unequalled sufferings. It ought to afford an instructive lesson to the government. At afflictions uncontrollable by man the Irish people never murmured, but oppressions springing from ill-treatment and misrule, they ever did, and he hoped ever would, resist. With regard to the present estimates, he could not avoid expressing his surprise at their amount. In the third year of peace, to hear of a force of 90,600 men must be a source of astonishment. How was the country to support such an expenditure? Where was it to end? The revenue of the last year amounted to 51,000,000 l l l l 709
 Sir F. Flood  expressed his high satisfaction at what had fallen from the noble viscount and the right hon. gentleman., with respect to the loyalty and good disposition of Ireland, and the patience with which the people of that country had endured the various hardships and privations to which they had been subjected. There was not a more sincere friend of Ireland than himself; indeed, whoever was not a friend to both countries, could not be a friend to either. He was as independent a man as any in that House, being bound to adhere to neither side of it. He never had received any thing, and he looked for nothing from any party. He would, therefore, be the last man to agree to any act of that House which he considered unjust or oppressive towards his native country. But he was bound to say, that he did not think the vote of 20,000 men for Ireland extravegant. They were dispersed over the country, and their weight was not felt. The whole people of Ireland, without any reference to religion, were loyal. Of this fact, the late war afforded abundant proof. Half our marine in the late war was composed of Irish Catholics, and a great part of our army of Irish Catholics and Protestants; and he knew of no single instance among them of desertion and disloyalty. The attachment of that country should be fostered. Ireland (exclaimed the hon. baronet) is the right arm of the empire. If you lose Ireland, what will become of you? You ought to embrace her with both arms to the end of time, as your nearest, dearest, and best of friends.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  expressed his surprise, that it should be proposed to continue the Royal Waggon Train, for what occasion could there be for such an establishment during peace. There was also a considerable expense in the recruiting department, amounting in the whole to 17,000 l l l
 Sir M. W. Ridley  said, that if the receivers of taxes remitted the bank tokens directly to London, considerable relief, would be given to the public; but if after receiving tokens for taxes they paid them-into the country banks, the relief would fall short of the general expectation. He could not help thinking it adviseable that they should be allowed to circulate for a longer period.
 Sir J. Newport  declared, that he was much pleased with the reply of the right hon. gentleman. He was, indeed, encouraged to hope that such measures would
 701
 Sir J. Newport  asked, whether any measures had been taken by the Irish government in consequence of the reports of the commissioners for investigating the fees and emoluments of the several officers connected with the courts of justice in that country?
 Lord Palmerston  rose, he said, to propose to the committee, the Army Estimates for the year. The detail of those estimates was so dry, that the House must, he presumed, feel desirous to have it brought within the shortest possible compass. With that desire he was quite wiling to comply, and he was glad to think that it was not necessary for him to enter at any length into the subject, in consequence of the Appendix to the Seventh Report *
 Lord Palmerston  stated, that with respect to the Royal Waggon Train, a part was stationed at Croydon, from whence detachments were sent to the army in France, a part was employed on the Military Canal, and another portion at
 706
 Lord Palmerston  requested the hon.
 710
 Lord Palmerston  said, it was not usual to lay on the table such a list as that alluded to by the hon. gentleman, but if the hon. gentleman thought proper to move for it, he would make no objection to its production: it would, however, take a long time to make out. He denied that there was any partiality shown to the army with respect to pensions. Pensions were granted to the officers of each service by departments wholly unconnected with one another; so that any thing like partiality was out of the question. As to any abuses in the granting of pensions to the officers of the army, he had in consequence of what had been said in that House last session, investigated the subject minutely, and he had not been able to discover a single instance of such abuse.
 Mr. Davits Gilbert  said, he had been induced about three years ago to bring in a bill for the purpose of obtaining the information now laid before the House, in the hopes of drawing the public attention to the most important subject which ever perhaps came before parliament. Unless some limit could be set to the rapid progress of the poor-rates, the ruin of the country was inevitable. Since the period in question, he was happy to say, that a committee had been appointed to inquire into the subject; and this committee had excited more attention throughout the country, and more hopes of good was expected from it than from any thing which had come before the House for many years past. He hoped the committee
 † 736
 Mr. Bennet  said, that no part of the report was directed against the gentlemen alluded to. Though he thought it would be extremely difficult for them to explain every part of the transactions stated in the evidence in a satisfactory manner. He should certainly feel it his duty to
 741
 Mr. Bennet  said, that in such a large body of evidence, notwithstanding the utmost pains, it was impossible that much that was incorrect should not find admittance.
 Mr. Bennet  said, he held in his hands a petition to which he wished to draw the attention of the House. It was from a person who had not been imprisoned under the Suspension of the Habeas Corpus act. The act of which the petitioner complained was one of those measures, which the noble lord, the secretary of state for the home department as head of the high police of the country, had chosen to inflict on the country. The House would recollect the Circular Letter of the noble lord to the lords lieutenant of counties, directing magistrates to hold persons to bail charged with selling libellous publications. Whatever might be the intention of the noble lord as to the degree of mildness or severity with which persons so arrested should be treated, the petitioner had been treated with a degree of cruelty hitherto unknown in the practice of this country. The petition was from Jonathan Buckley Mellor, by trade a small bookseller, in the town of Warrington. The offence for which the petitioner was arrested, was the selling the well known Political Litany for which Mr. Hone was tried; but though the copies bought for the purpose of prosecution were obtained long previously, he was not taken up till after the quarter sessions in April, when he was dragged to a common gaol, and confined several days in irons. The petitioner was conveyed, loaded with irons, to the house of correction at Preston, where he was confined six weeks. He was altogether confined fifteen weeks in differ-
 742 743 l. l. 744 745 746
 Mr. Bennet  wished to know whether it was the intention of the attorney-general to bring these men to trial, after the three acquittals of Mr. Hone, the principal publisher of the parodies; or whether he did not feel it his duty to discharge the recognisances under which they were bound to appear at the next assizes?
 The Attorney General  apprehended there was a mistake in the supposition that the recognizances bound these men to appear at the next assizes. The recognizances, he believed, bound them to
 747
 Mr. Bennet  said, the learned gentleman had not answered the question, whether he did not feel it his duty to discharge the recognizances? He certainly had no right to demand this answer.
 The Attorney General  replied, that he had no hesitation in saying, that because a person had been acquitted for the publication of certain libels, he did not feel it therefore his duty to discharge the recognizance of persons under prosecution for publishing transcripts of those same libels, whether he should proceed in the prosecution of these men would be determined by a variety of other considerations; but he did not feel it his duty to forego the prosecution of what appeared to him to be a libel, because a person had been acquitted for publishing a similar libel in another place. He knew it had happened, that in one place a person had been acquitted of a libel on the publication of a paper, which had at another time and place been declared to be a libel by another jury, to the satisfaction of those who heard the trial. It was not for him to say on what grounds the jury acquitted Mr. Hone. He wished to cast no reflection on that verdict: it was fit the defendant should have the full benefit of it. But he would take leave to say, that it did not satisfy him, that ever after these publications should be allowed to circulate with impunity. There were many circumstances which might have weighed on the mind of the jury in the case of Mr. Hone. Mr. Hone had proved that after a certain time, when he found those publications were disapproved of by many persons, he ceased to sell them. He thought it extremely likely that, considering this, and considering how in former times, similar publications had passed without reprehension, they might have acquitted Mr. Hone though they thought his publications mischievous. But did it follow that men vending this publication, which if not a libel was literally poison, through the country, should be suffered to proceed—to circulate it at the corner of every street? Did it follow that the law officers were to let this pass without animadversion? Since Mr. Hone had ceased to publish, other persons had republished them, nearly at the same place where they were first vended. They professed that they had a right to do so, and
 748
 Lord Castlereagh  thought the doctrine of the hon. and learned gentleman who had just spoken open to much animadversion, particularly as it came from a professional gentleman. There never could be a doctrine maintained more fatal to the laws, and to the fair and impartial administration of justice, or its purity and tranquillity, than that a jury, on their oaths, bound to decide on the particular case before them, should be allowed to travel out of the record, and erect themselves into a sort of political tribunal to adjudge, by comparison, different matters and different persons. This was contrary to the spirit and principle of jurisprudence, and he trusted the House and the country would never tolerate, that their judicial tribunals should be elected into places for political disquisitions. It was in vain to defend these offensive publications, on the ground that other parodies had been previously suffered to pass with impunity. He was at the same time ready to admit, that whenever the scriptures were so parodied, the act was highly reprehensible, no matter in what way the parody was intended to be applied. Offences of this kind, however, were open to different views. He knew not to what parodies the hon. and learned gentleman alluded, but there was a great difference between the effect of publications circulated at a cheap rate, and couched in language calculated to diffuse poison throughout the country, and those which were circulated at a dearer rate in a higher circle of society, and, in fact, intended but for literary classes. His object, however, was not to defend by comparison such publications; he merely rose to protest against the doctrine so broadly laid down by the hon. and learned gentleman, that a jury, solemnly trying a
 751
 Lord Castlereagh  appealed to the House, whether the hon. and learned gentleman had not re-laid down the doctrine he had complained of.
 Lord Cochrane  said, he had several hundred petitions to present to the House on the subject of parliamentary reform, a few of which he would now bring up. He had four from St. Margaret's, Westminster, 99 from Leeds, five from Bristol, several from Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Ashton-under-Line, and a number of other places.
 Lord Cochrane  presented a petition from Robert Thorn, a weaver of Glasgow, who had been taken up under the Habeas Corpus Suspension Act. The noble lord maintained that the statements embodied in the petition deserved the most serious inquiry, as, if they were true, acts of more flagrant injustice had not been committed under any go-
 754 755
 Lord Cochrane  hoped the ministers, if they wished, as it had been expressed, to retire to their closets with a good conscience, would not confine their care of religion and morality to the prosecution of parodies, but would turn their attention to those who had incited innocent men to commit acts which would draw on them punishment. The true motive for the acquittal of Mr. Hone was, that he had been tried for offences against religion, when his real offence was political. He should shortly have to present a petition, which, when read, would, he hoped, induce the House to inquire into a subject which they had hitherto avoided.
 Mr. Peel  begged also to make a similar reservation of his opposition until the proper stage of discussion, the second reading.
 Mr. Forbes  said, he would also, in a future stage, oppose the bill.
 Mr. Peel  accused the hon. gentleman of misrepresenting what he had last night said respecting the state of Ireland. For although he had stated it to be a source of satisfaction to the House that the internal state of Ireland was much improved, yet he had given it as his decided opinion that no force of a less amount than that proposed was compatible with the safety of Ireland. This was his opinion: the opinion of others might be different. But certainly he was more confirmed in his opinion when he considered that the only two members who differed from it were the hon. gentleman who spoke last, and the hon. baronet—the former had no personal knowledge, and the latter had not set his foot in the country since his return from India. It would be agreed on all hands that nothing could be more injurious or unsafe than a sudden reduction in the military force on Ireland; and he was sure that the House would be of opinion that a reduction beyond that made in the present estimate was consistent with the internal security of that country.
 Mr. Marryat  observed, with reference to the colonics, that they were not in a situation of contributing to the maintenance of the troops, with the exception of Jamaica. He did not think that a smaller force could be voted for their protection and safety.
 Lord Castlereagh  could not allow the question to go to a division without saying a few words. It was not from not feeling the great importance of the question that he had not sooner offered himself to the attention of the House, but because he had heard nothing urged in the course of the debate which was an argument against the proposed establishment; and he referred to the thinness of the House on the present occasion as evincing a feeling, that after the previous discussions, the opinions of members were settled as to the necessity of the amount of force proposed. The hon. and learned gentleman wished to take the year 1792 as the standard, according to which the estimates of the present year should be regulated. Now, with respect to the establishment of 1792, he begged the House to recollect that Mr. Pitt, in that year, when he proposed the estimates, stated, that he had framed them on the prospect of a long period of profound peace. In this it unhappily proved that Mr. Pitt was mistaken, for the war broke out the very next year; and the consequence of the lowness of the establishment, in the year 1792 was, that this country suffered very much from an extreme degree of military feebleness during the first years of the war. The hon. and learned baronet thought that we could do at present with a force of 10,000 men less than that in the estimates, but then he forgot to state the particular quarter in which the reduction was to be made. Was it seriously said, that any reduction could be made in the 26,000 men to be kept up for the home service? In which part of the home establishment would the hon. and learned baronet make his reduction? Not less than 11,000 men were required for the service of the metropolis and the dockyards; and could 16,000 be thought sufficient for that of all England? He assured the House that ministers intended to make every possible reduction which would not be inconsistent with the interests and safety of the country.
 Mr. Bankes  thought that the present vote was larger than the necessity of the case required. Last year, from the agitated state of the country, he had not thought any reduction could safely be made in the force proposed for England; but now that order and tranquillity once more prevailed, he was of a different opinion. As to the army in Ireland, he wished it to be reduced gradually.
 Lord A. Hamilton  hoped that his silence on the present occasion would not be construed into any assent to the proposed measure; on the contrary, his sentiments in opposition to it remained as strong as ever.
 Mr. Sumner  presented a petition from James Trotter, John Whitmore, and Thomas Reid, esquires, magistrates for the county of Surrey, complaining that they had been unjustly attacked, as having misconducted themselves in their duty as licensing magistrates of public houses. The depositions of Robert Whitburn a witness examined on the police committee, had formed the ground-work of that unwarrantable and calumnious attack. The petitioners prayed they might be afforded an opportunity of refuting the calumny,
 Mr. Brougham  said, that the hon. gentleman who had just sat down had deprecated all premature discussion of a subject of such importance as the poor laws, and had promised to avoid imitating in that respect the example of those who had preceded him. In like manner he should begin by deprecating all premature discussion of this question, and promising to avoid entering himself into such a discussion. But there would be this difference between himself and the hon. gentleman, that he would keep his promise; whereas immediately after the deprecation of the hon. gentleman, it had seemed good to him to enter into a most delicate and difficult topic which had not any connexion with this important question. And having thus discussed the subject of the poor laws at considerable length, as if he had not sufficiently redeemed his pledge to the House, the hon. gentleman had then entered into another subject almost as important as the poor laws, namely that of taxation. The discovery which the hon. gentleman had made on this occasion, was not indeed so self evident as that which he lately made that the country banks issued paper. The last discovery, however, though not so self evident, was certainly highly curi-
 § 740 l. l.
 Mr. Brougham  was pleased that an opportunity was offered to him of expressing his opinion on what formed a principal subject of the petitions they had lately heard. He agreed with his hon. friend in regarding with feelings of unqualified dis-
 749 750
 Mr. Brougham  said, that the doctrine which the noble lord had been reprobating was no doctrine of his. What he had said was this, that the jury were so placed that they were called on to single out one man for conviction on a particular offence, which had been committed with impunity, nay, with encouragement, by others for a course of years. To make such a distinction to suit political views, would have been any thing but that even-handed justice which they were sworn to administer.
 Mr. Brougham  said, it became the Commons of England—as many, at least, as were then assembled there—to insist, that the number of troops to be maintained, especially in this country, should not exceed what it was in 1792. In a year of profound peace, and when all danger of internal commotion was allowed to have ceased, it was for ministers, and not for those who sat on his side of the House, to show why the force should be increased beyond what it was at that period. The people of England had a right to be governed at the smallest possible expense; and if he showed that the state of the country did not require any extraordinary measures, the  onus 767 768
 Lord Lascelles  instanced a case where the reason for withholding a licence was rnistated in the evidence taken by the police committee.
 Mr. Calcraft  was at a loss to know what gentlemen meant by some radical measure. If they meant that government ought to come forward and propose the abolition of the poor-rates, he, for one, would enter his protest against such a doctrine. No such measure ought to be proposed cither by the government or by any other body of men in that House. The poor-rates were an evil no doubt; and that evil was still greatly increased by the manner in which the poor laws were administered. But this great evil arose chiefly out of our enormous taxation; and if the hon. gentleman, who moved the printing of the papers would but lend his aid to diminish the amount of taxation—to check the extravagance of government,—he would contribute more effectually, perhaps, than he possibly could do in any other way to the reduction of the poor-rates. No majority of parliament could say that the poor-rates ought not to be continued beyond a given time. The mal-administration of the poor laws, which no man could more regret than he did, was no argument against a legal provision for the poor. But, he would ask, had not the poor-rates been gradually diminishing? From having seen the poor-rates so high, and from seeing them fall, he was convinced they would again have them low. Gentlemen would have their corn bill—they wanted to have a high price for corn, labour low, and moderate poor rates. But these three things they could not possibly have at the same time. If corn was high, labour could not be low, without there being heavy poor-rates. The labourers and their families must eat. Low labour was,
 737 s. s. s.
 Mr. Calcraft  regretted as much as the noble lord the thin attendance which was given on all sides on a question of so much public interest as the Army Estimates. The reproach applied generally, and he should be sorry were a division to exhibit their scanty numbers to the observation of the country. He must contend that no satisfactory answer had been made to the objections to the amount of the estimates for the service of England and Ireland, and he had no hesitation in declaring his belief that the reduction of 10,000 men was practicable. When measuring the extent of an establishment, how could they proceed without adopting some basis, and what better one could they select than the peace establishment of 1792—unfortunately the last year of general peace
 764 765
 Mr. Curwen  was convinced that taxation clearly entered into the condition of the labouring poorer classes, and believed they did not pay less than 25 per cent to the government in the shape of taxes.
 Mr. Curwen  expressed his astonishment that the hon. gentlemen opposite did not consider it their duty to make any reply to the convincing arguments that had been so eloquently advanced by his hon. and learned friend. If on a question of such constitutional and financial importance, that was to be the mode of discussion adopted by the House, it was high time for a reform of parliament.
 Mr. Finlay  hoped the House would not rely on the truth of the statements made in this petition. It stated that the petitioner had been taken up under the Suspension act: but the fact was, that in Scotland none were detained under the operation of that act. With respect to the alleged harsh treatment, he had made inquiry, and satisfied himself that the complaint was groundless. Two or three, who had been confined under similar charges, had expressed themselves perfectly satisfied, and had even expressed their thanks for the attention paid to their wants. For his part, he wished inquiry being made into the circumstances of the case, because he knew the result would show the exaggerated nature of some statements made in this petition, and the utter falsehoods of others.
 Mr. F. Lewis  explained. He had never said that taxation had no effect in increasing the poor rates. What he had said was, that the number of paupers was not occasioned by taxation alone.
 Mr. Frankland Lewis  deprecated all discussion on this subject, at the present moment, as premature. The subject was one of the very highest importance, being neither more nor less than the happiness or misery of a vast mass of the population. The committee had nothing so much at heart as to carry through the investigation of this matter in the most dispassionate manner, and to avoid coming to a hasty determination upon it. Perhaps, indeed, they would be blamed for their dilatory manner of proceeding; but it was better that they should err on the side of caution than on the side of precipitation. The hon. gentleman had asked, if by setting themselves against the system of the poor laws, it was meant suddenly to withdraw from the people relief from the poor rates? But it was utterly impossible that any man in his senses could entertain such a wish as to get rid of the poor-rates altogether. This was what was meant when it was said, that government and the House ought to set themselves against the system of the poor laws: the poor-rates, if they were allowed to go on in- creasing as they had done, would gradually absorb all the rents and produce of the country. When he said, therefore, that they ought to set themselves against the system, he said he hoped that they would take such steps as would prevent this ruin even to the paupers themselves. He should not, however, enter into the subject at present; but in the mean time he had no hesitation in saying, that the people of this country would have been incomparably happier, from the highest to the lowest, if the statute of Elizabeth had
 738 739
 Sir W. Burroughs  rose, and urged with additional force the objections which he pressed last night against the amount of the proposed establishment. Compared with the peace establishment of 1792, this amount was peculiarly objectionable, unless it was shown that there was something in the internal condition of the foreign relations of the country which called for a greater force at present than in the year 1792. But what was the fact? Why, that while we were at present in a state of profound tranquillity, at peace with all the world, and without the slightest apprehension, as ministers themselves assured parliament, of any breach with foreign powers, we were in 1792 in very different circumstances; for at that period the French Revolution was in its vigour, while its poison was spreading throughout the world. That poison was perhaps no where more widely diffused than in this country, through the medium of the Jacobin Clubs. Insurrections had, indeed, actually taken place, and Ireland was on the eve of rebellion. France was also in a state of extraordinary strength, and obviously preparing to make war upon this country. But what was the contrast at present? The Revolution extinguished—Great Britain and Ireland in a state of tranquillity—and France not only indisposed and unable to make war upon us, but depending for the preservation of its peace upon an army of 22,000 Englishmen, under the command of the celebrated Wellington. Was not this contrast, then, an additional reason for a reduced establishment at home, in this the third year of peace, and without the remotest probability of the disturbance of that peace especially by any foreign power? Now, the whole of our force in Great Britain, in 1792, was only 15,000, and in Ireland only 12,000. Thus the total force for
 761 762
 Mr. Lyttelton  asked, in what part of
 760
 Mr. Lyttelton  took occasion to call the attention of the House to a subject which he had, in the course of the last session, felt it his duty to bring into discussion,* and against which he thought the secretary at war had adduced very inadequate grounds of objection—he meant with regard to the affidavit which an half-pay officer was compelled to make, to entitle him to receive his half-pay, namely, that he had no other emolument from, or employment under the Crown. This he could not help considering as a restriction, equally inconsistent with liberality and justice. To the half-pay he thought all
 *See Vol. 36, p. 523, 757 758 l. l. 759
 Mr. Lyttelton  said, he was glad he had an opportunity of expressing his opinion on these detestable libels, for so, notwithstanding the acquittal of Hone and verdicts of the juries, he should call them. He did not think those verdicts however conscientiously given, could or ought to alter the opinion of any man in the country. He should have been glad to have had an earlier opportunity of expressing his feelings on the subject; but he thought it his duty, however unimportant his individual opinion, to contribute his mite to do away the mischief which the verdict, however well meant, had indirectly occasioned. The petitions before the House, however, stated matters which were very fit for inquiry. It was not for him to give an opinion whether these persons should be prosecuted, but he thought it likely that a verdict might be obtained against these publications, when there was nothing in the individual case in favour of the person prosecuted. But it was doubtful to him, whether farther prosecutions might not aggravate the evils of these publications. It was fit for the House to consider what cause had led to these acquittals—whether the minds of the juries had not been indisposed towards any state prosecutions, by the unconstitutional law which had been passed, and by the manner in which other state prosecutions had been conducted. This he threw out for the consideration of the House, and he hoped they would bear it in mind when the bill of indemnity demanded by ministers should be brought forward [Hear, hear!].
 Mr. Wilberforce  was very glad indeed to find that the hon. member for Worcestershire, and the hon. and learned member for Winchelsea, had so decidedly expressed their opinions against these parodies. He was himself entirely ignorant of the libel of which the hon. and learned gentleman had spoken. It ought, in his opinion, to be considered, whether or not, without prosecuting, the libel would be likely to have a great degree of circulation, or would do a great degree of mischief. He remembered a case of prosecution, in which a noble lord (L. Erskine) had been particularly engaged. In that case, the question of prosecution and not prosecution was fully considered. It was, he believed, on the second part of Paine's Age of Reason; and that time he recollected it was found, that the circulation was such amongst all orders and classes of society, that it could not be brought into more notice or greater publicity. Before the prosecution of the present productions, he had thought, and he thought so in common with a great part of the nation, that such productions which were so industriously circulated, called for reprehension. He wished to have caused them to have been prosecuted in such a manner as would have avoided the imputation of political feelings. He did not think, however, that those who were charged with the defence of the national religion, if that religion was to be pro-
 752
 Sir C. Monck  wished it to be understood that it was against the abuse of the poor-laws that he had spoken, and not against any part of the act of Elizabeth which provided support for the aged and infirm.
 Sir Charles Monck  said, the country would not be satisfied unless government came forward and took under its charge some radical measure for the relief of the country from the intolerable evil of the poor laws.
 Sir Egerton Brydges  said, he would not detain the House long in moving for leave to bring in a bill to amend the Copy-right Act, of the 54th of the king, c. 156, as he understood no objection would be made to the course he was about to pursue. He would, therefore, only detain the House while he said that the grievances under this act appeared so great and so severe, not only as affecting authors and publishers, but the best interests of literature, itself, that he saw no remedy but its repeal, and he could anticipate no fair objection to it. He concluded by moving, "That leave be given to bring in a bill to amend the act of the 54th of his present Majesty, intituled,' An Act to amend the several Acts for the Encouragemen of Learning, by securing the Copies and Copy-right of printed Books to the Authors of such Books, or their Assigns."'
 Sir S. Romilly  said, he had 46 petitions to present from the city of Bristol, signed by 20 persons, each praying for a reform in parliament, viz. annual elections and universal suffrage. The persons who signed these petitions, and others of the same nature, laboured under a great mistake. They imagined that there was a law which prevented petitions from being presented by the people to their representatives signed by more than twenty names. This
 753
 Sir John Newport  felt himself bound to express his sense of the obligations which were due to the right hon. gentleman for the course of policy which he had pursued with respect to Ireland, in substituting the civil for the military authority in the preservation of the peace of that country. The reduction of the military force in that country should be gradual and progressive, for it could not be doubted that any sudden abandonment of the policy hitherto acted upon would be productive of very
 766
 Lord Palmerston  observed, that as the affidavit alluded to was provided for by a section in the Appropriation act, the case did not apply on the present occasion. He denied the justice of the hon. gentleman's statement, that the half-pay belonged to an officer as a matter of right, as that half-pay was in fact granted merely for the subsistence of officers during the cessation of their services, and as a retaining fee for their future services, when it should become necessary to call upon them for the defence of the country. But if officers were allowed to accept civil apointments, it was felt, and justly felt, that it would be difficult to recall them to military duties when occasion should require it. There was indeed reason to believe that if officers were so appointed, they might be come so much engaged in civil pursuits as to be disqualified for, or indisposed to, the resumption of military habits. On those grounds, then, the affidavit objected! to by the hon. gentleman was deemed necessary; but this affidavit was, in fact; nothing more than persons connected with other departments of the public service were called upon to make; for those who enjoyed superannuation or retired pensions, were obliged to make the same affidavit, namely, that they had no other emolument under the Crown. It was also to be recollected, that the requisition of this affidavit was not an innovation, but the old established system. Then as to the circular letter alluded to by the hon. gentleman, the regulation to which it referred did not originate with government, but was recommended by the finance committee, which was of opinion, that the same rule which prevailed in the other departments of the public service should be applied to the army.
 Lord Palmerston  said, he had to put in the same claim for his opposition in. due time to the measure.
 Lord Palmerston  observed, that if what had passed that night in the House was calculated to show the necessity of a reform in parliament, he presumed it was from the very scanty attendance which
 763
 Mr. Gordon  said, that the House ought to be made acquainted with the way in which the sums before granted for the building of this establishment had been spent. It had been found necessary to take down some of the towers, they had been so badly constructed. The sum now required was for rebuilding.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that as a consideration for the colonies ceded by Holland to this country, it was understood that Great Britain was to contribute equally with Holland towards the reparation of the fortresses on the French frontier.' Sixty million livres to be received from France were to be appropriated to the same purpose. The contributions from France were to be applied in the first place towards that expense. He could assure the hon. member that in all cases the sums received from France were appropriated to this object as soon as they came in; but the whole of the 60 millions of livres, had not been so employed, because this sum had not yet all come in.
 Mr. Bennet  said, he approved, in great part, of the system pursued at Millbank, though he thought it admitted of improvement
 Mr. Wynn  said, that when they considered the great expense which the transportation of offenders occasioned to the country, and how little satisfactory the result had been, particularly in the case of females, they could not fail to view the Penitentiary plan as most beneficial to the country.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  then moved, "That 725,681 1 s. d. 772
 Lord Castlereagh  said, the whole sum which Great Britain was bound to pay by the treaty, could not exceed two millions.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  allowed that the treaty was not very clearly worded with respect to this matter; but there was a distinct understanding, that the whole sum which Great Britain should contribute towards the repair of the Belgic fortresses should not exceed two millions; and that the whole charge which could by any possibility be brought against Great
 773
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was doubtful whether any benefit could possibly arise from the appointment of such a committee as that now proposed by the hon. and learned gentleman. With respect to the charge made against the department of the income tax, of repugnance to comply with the orders of the House in the production of such documents as the House found necessary to call for, he believed that that department was not more averse than any other department in showing due compliance to their orders. The papers which the hon. and learned gentleman had alluded to, as an instance to prove the charge of reluctance, were long ago in possession of the House, and this the hon. and learned gentleman might have easily ascertained by inquiring at the vote office. The accounts called for respecting the inspectors of the income tax had been ordered on the 3rd of February, and it appeared they were returned on the 10th of February. With respect to the property tax, it was not his intention then to enter into its general merits. He knew it was burthen some to the country, though highly necessary to carry us through the arduous struggle in which we had then been engaged. In time of peace it was objectionable, and he trusted unnecessary. The object of the hon. and learned gentleman's motion was, that all papers of the description alluded to should be destroyed indiscriminately; but this could not be done, as some of them were absolutely necessary for the recovery of certain arrears of, the property tax. Orders had been already given for the destruction of all such as were not necessary for the recovery of arrears, and the detection of fraud. All returns of commercial property, included in schedule B, were such as, from the circumstances of such property, ought certainly to be destroyed, excepting such as were necessary for the recovery of arrears. It was judged necessary to preserve copies of some of these returns, because two different acts, passed in the year 1815, referred to these papers for the purpose of
 776
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that he had no objection to the postponement of the discussion, for the accommodation of the hon. and learned gentleman and his friends. An application was no doubt made to the hon. and learned gen-
 778
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the noble lord might anticipate his objections to this motion, if he recollected the grounds upon which he resisted a similar motion last year. These grounds were, that nothing would be so unadvisable on the part of that House, as to interfere with the conduct of the Bank in a case of this nature; that such interference was of all things most likely to derange the proceedings of that body, and to impede those preparations so essentially necessary for that final resumption of cash payments, which it was the wish of that House and of the country to witness. Yet the noble lord would deem it safe and convenient to bring those preparations under the view of that House; and
 780
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  did not intend to oppose the production of this account, nor did he think the present a fit period for entering into a consideration of the general question. He should only say, therefore, that he agreed for the most part with the principle maintained by the right hon. gentleman, that the reduction of the issues of the Bank was a necessary means and preparation for enabling them to resume their cash payments. He had some limitations, however, to suggest to the broad proposition that it was the only means, which limitations had been very clearly explained in the work of a deceased friend both of his and of the right hon. gentleman; he meant the late Mr. Henry Thornton.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  felt himself called upon to say a very few words, after what had fallen from the hon. gentleman. He challenged the hon. gentleman to show, that any thing he had ever uttered with relation to the finances of the country, had led to the encouragement of gambling in the funds. He likewise denied that any persons had received or would receive private information from him of what financial arrangements he proposed to submit to parliament for the service of the year; and he treated the insinuation, therefore, with the contempt which it deserved. He did not think it consistent with his public duty to make the disclosures suggested by the hon. gentleman, and he should leave it to the House to judge, whether he was not more likely to promote gambling by any premature or partial declarations than by preserving a perfect silence on the subject.
 General Thornton  hoped the Bank would take proper means to make their notes so as to render forgeries of greater difficulty than they now were.
 Lord A. Hamilton  rose, to bring forward his promised motion upon the subject of the Bank. At a time when it was evidently intended to continue still farther the restriction of Cash Payments by the Bank, it was, in his opinion, the duty of the House to look to the conduct of that establishment with peculiar care, as well as to the proceedings of the minister, who was so intimately connected with it. With a view to understand the conduct of the Bank, he felt it necessary to move for copies of the notices issued by it for the payment of certain of its notes in cash within the last year. A pretty general impression prevailed, that those notices were issued merely for the purpose of delusion, and to induce a belief that the Bank was in possession of the means, and was in the progress of preparing to resume its payments in cash. It was, therefore, due to the character of the Bank, as well as to the satisfaction of the country, to explain the motive and end of those notices. It was now clear that
 779
 Mr. Arbuthnot  appealed to the hon. member for Shrewsbury as to the amelioration in the conduct of the prisoners in the Penitentiary.
 Mr. C. Calvert  took occasion to express a hope, that some measures would be taken to guard against the vexation to which several persons had been recently subjected under the system for collecting the assessed taxes. This vexation was, he knew, peculiarly felt in his own neighbourhood. For after the people had had their proportion of the tax fixed upon the rack rent, by a regular and respectable surveyor, an assessor appeared, who, without any previous survey, ordered an advance of the tax equal to 50, and even 100 per cent upon some premises. Such, indeed, was the grievous exaction demanded from the inhabitants of Isleworth, Twickenham, and Hampton.
 Mr. Tierney  was willing to believe that this was the understanding at signing the treaty, still, however, the treaty itself might be thought to bear a different construction.
 Mr. Tierney  observed, that as to the charge brought against him by an hon. director, of hostility to the Bank, it was not only himself, but every man in the country, who would be convinced, if no preparation, by withdrawing and reducing its, issues, should be made in April next for resuming its cash payments, that the blame lay with the Bank, and not with the chancellor of the exchequer. The persuasion of the public, he was sure, would then be that the Bank, notwithstanding all its professions, was taking pains to prevent the performance of their engagements at the time limited by law. The country was entitled to look to the Bank for the protection of its currency: it was the condition of their charter, and the
 787
 Mr. Tierney  said, that he rose for the purpose of moving for the production of certain papers connected with the issues of the Bank of England, to which he understood no objection was intended. His motion went to the farther continuation of the weekly accounts of issues of the Bank, from the 3d of February, to the 3d of the present month. It was not his wish to enter into many observations at present, willing rather to take the subject into consideration as a whole question, than in detached parts. It was, however, necessary to advert to some circumstances, in order to put the House in possession of what his object was in moving for the production of the accounts of the weekly issues, and of the course, which, dependent on the information these accounts gave, it might become his duty to take, respecting the engagements of the Bank with the country, as to its resumption of cash payments. And, in the first place, he begged to deny that he had ever expressed any doubt as to the fact of the Bank having accumulated a large amount of specie, greater, he believed, than at any former period in the history of their concerns, in
 782 l l 783 l. l l l 784 l
 Mr. Brougham  assured the House, that he had treated with the ambassador of the right hon. gentleman in perfect good faith, and that he was led to think there was no objection to his motion for the appointment of the committee; but it now appeared from the language of the chancellor of the exchequer, that if he himself were allowed to name the committee, he should not oppose the motion.
 Mr. Brougham  said, he rose to make a proposition to carry into effect a measure, the propriety of which was admitted, he believed, on all sides of the House; he meant the destruction of all remains of that tax on which they had long ago passed a sentence of condemnation. The principle on which the motion proceeded was so obvious, that he should not offer a word in support of it, but he should shortly state the circumstances which now rendered it necessary. About two years ago the chancellor of the exchequer had stated, that he had given directions for the destruction of the returns under the income tax. Subsequently to that, it was found that these directions had been very imperfectly complied with; that the originals or copies of these returns were bandied about, and sold every where as waste paper, and that in some places a person could hardly go into a shop without seeing the returns of some of his neighbours, or perhaps his own. When this was mentioned, it was said, that steps would be taken to destroy the returns; and about the same time a circular was issued, requiring the officers to destroy the original returns, preserving-copies, which were to be transmitted to the tax-office in London, and there to be preserved. No farther notice had been taken of the subject till within a few days, when he had received information from persons who had seen these returns scattered about, as they had formerly been, in one part of the country. It was evident there was no use in destroying the originals, if copies were left. For though the names were left out, it was manifest that if all the details were preserved, any person in the neighbourhood, not to speak of the assessor, would be able to supply the names. On what ground could it be necessary to preserve these returns at all It was said, that they were necessary to check the returns of the county rate; but for this purpose the sums total, properly authenticated, of parishes or districts,
 774 775
 Mr. Brougham  expressed his surprise at the language and conduct of the chancellor of the exchequer, who, after some little explanation not at all material to the question, declared his intention to vote against the motion. But what was this motion to which the right hon. gentleman professed so much objection? Why, simply for the appointment of a committee to inquire what returns or papers connected with the property tax had been destroyed, or could be destroyed without any injury to the public service. The
 777
 Mr. Lambton  expressed a hope that the chancellor of the exchequer would give some explanation as to the circumstances alluded to by his hon. and learned friend, for he could say, that his understanding with respect to the result of the negotiation was the same as that of his hon. and learned friend.
 Mr. Lambton  said, that according to his understanding the chancellor of the exchequer had expressed no objection to his hon. and learned friend's motion until he found, from seeing the names of the committee which his hon. and learned friend proposed, that the majority were not very likely to support his views.
 Mr. Lockhart  explained. The right hon. gentleman had very much misunderstood him, if he supposed that he considered the amendment of prisoners a secondary consideration. He had merely said that this was secondary with reference to the greater consideration of preventing crime.
 Mr. Lockhart  said, no less than 71,000 l 770
 Mr. Warre  observed, that by an additional article of the treaty we were bound to bear equally with the king of the Netherlands such farther charges incurred in the reparation of the Belgic fortresses as should not make the sum to be paid by Great Britain to exceed in the whole three millions. He should like to know from the noble lord how far we were liable to pay more than two millions towards the repair of the fortresses?
 Mr. Warre  observed, that by the treaty of 1815 there was to be set apart 60 millions of livres out of the 125 millions of livres which was to be paid by France to the Netherlands, for the reparation of the fortresses on the Flemish frontier. The whole expense of the reparation of these fortresses was estimated at 137 millions of livres. He did not know whether these 60 millions had already been expended by the king of the Netherlands in contributing to the repair of the fortresses; and he could wish to receive some information from the noble lord on this subject.
 Mr. Warre  asked, if by the treaty we could not be called on to pay three millions in all towards the Belgic fortresses?
 Mr. Grenfell  said, he completely concurred in opinion with his hon. and learned friend, as to the refractoriness evinced by the different offices connected with the department of taxes in complying with the orders of the House, but he could not agree with him in excepting the gentleman at the head of that department. He knew, however, that no blame could attach to the secretary of that department, whose conduct was in every respect highly creditable. He felt the greatest satisfaction in having to congratulate that House and the country on the admission then made for the first time, that the country was not again to be inflicted with the property tax. It was certainly a fair subject of congratulation to hear, that, though the right hon. gentleman considered the tax as right and proper in time of war, yet he would never recommend it in time of peace. This declaration was the more cheering, as a fear had been prevalent that a recurrence to this oppressive tax was still contemplated.
 Mr. Grenfell  observed, that this motion was more interesting to the cause of the Bank than to that of the public; and therefore he was surprised to find that no director rose to speak upon it, especially as he had lately seen no less than four directors in the House. But he remarked that the chancellor of the exchequer was always ready to step forward as the champion of the Bank, without the aid of a single speech from any of the directors of that institution; of the votes of all of whom, however, he was of course fully assured, especially upon any question connected with their own interest. The right hon. gentleman had indeed those votes whenever he (Mr. G.) brought forward any motion with respect to the Bank. But the right hon. gentleman was not ungrateful, for when he (Mr. G.) objected to the allowance of half a million per annum to the Bank for performing the office of bankers for the public, and also to the grant of 300,000 l 781
 Mr. Grenfell  remarked, that the increased issues alluded to by his right hon. friend had taken place, not at one period, but had continued during the whole half-year ending in December of last year. The average circulation for that period exceeded, by a sum of between two and three millions, the average circulation of the corresponding six months of the year preceding. He would go farther, and assert, that the amount of circulating paper issued by the Bank of' England for the last six months, was greater than at any former period of equal duration since the year 1797. He wished the House to understand that the extent to which gambling in the funds was carried on at the present moment was without precedent. He did not say, that the right hon. gentleman was desirous of producing such an effect: but the system on which he acted had an inevitable tendency to create and encourage the evil. It had, in fact, caused a greater degree of fluctuation in the value of the funds than had ever before been known; and it might be traced in some measure to the uncertainty that existed on the subject of renewing the restriction act. He entreated the right hon. gentleman to put an end to this uncertainty by openly declaring his intentions, or if the event depended on a contingency, to state what that contin-
 786
 Mr. Grenfell  complained of the warm manner in which the right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer had expressed himself. Nothing was farther from his intention than to impute to that right hon. gentleman any improper or corrupt motive in his financial views. He believed him to be the last man capable of so acting; and nothing that ever fell from him should have been received as casting any thing like this imputation. He merely deprecated silence on a subject like the
 788
 Mr. C. Long  said, the objections to the Penitentiary at Millbank ought to have been stated at an earlier period. It ought to be recollected that the Penitentiary was adopted by parliament after a great deal of discussion. He was astonished that the hon. gentleman should consider the amendment of the persons in that prison a secondary object. The hon. gentleman had said what was perfectly true, that innocent persons, from mixing with hardened criminals in prisons, came out depraved. Did he mean to say, then, that a system by which the amendment of prisoners was promoted, was not worth the attention of the House? It was true that a tower had been pulled down and rebuilt.
 771
 Mr. Manning  was surprised, after the right hon. gentleman's profession of a friendly disposition to the Bank, that he should act with such hostility as to summon it to an unconditional surrender at the expiration of a month. He must say, that he could not accept his friendship on such terms, nor could he be induced by
 785
 Mr. Peel  wished to notice briefly the observations which the hon. and learned gentleman had made with regard to the Protestant charter schools of Ireland. The observations of the hon. and learned gentleman were probably made in ignorance of the public documents respecting these schools of a later date than the inquiry of Mr. Howard. He knew not whether he was acquainted with the report of the commissioners of education in 1808. The members of the board of education and their secretary had examined personally into the state of the Protestant schools, which, up to the time of the rebellion, were in a very wretched state. The contrast which their present state afforded, was highly honourable to the masters. At the time of the report in question, these schools had not above 30,000 l. l. l.
 Mr. Abercromby  was glad of the re-appointment of this committee, and also of the hint that it might be necessary to inquire generally into the state of charitable institutions in this country. He did not wish to embarrass the committee now moved for, by generalising the objects of its inquiry. But he was so convinced that this general inquiry should be made, that he gave notice that if no other member moved for it, he should think it his duty to do so.
 General Thornton  observed, that in girls schools, something useful was for the most part taught, while he thought there was a deficiency in that respect in schools, instituted for boys. In these, too, he thought some works of industry, that might enable the boys to earn an honest livelihood in after life, ought to be taught.
 The Hon. F. Douglas  said, that all the right hon. gentleman had proved amounted to these two facts—that no person of the name of Dewhurst was in sir J. Byng'6 gig, and that Lomax was dead. He had told them too, that contradiction was not proof. Yet his speech was a tissue of unproved contradictions, which he had begged the House to receive instead of the proof which it was the object of the motion to elicit. It was to be remarked too, on the right hon. gentleman's own statement, that Lomax had written to lord Sidmouth offering to give information —that he had afterwards been apprehended, and almost immediately released. It was unfortunate that the hon. mover had not made a long speech on the Manchester petition, as the right hon. gentleman's speech seemed entirely prepared to refer to it. But the petition had very properly been made by the hon. mover accessary to his proofs;—he rested on the general knowledge of the country—on the general avowal of the ministers themselves through their committees. But how did the right hon. gentleman answer the allegations of the other petitions? By saying that one Haynes was a perjured man. But who was Haynes? His petition had not that day been read. He said nothing of Oliver, nor had any information that he knew of been derived from him. The right hon. gentleman wondered why the present motion had been made. Did he not remember that on the motion of the member for Lincoln (Mr. Fazakerley), half the speech, and more than half the argument of the speech of a right hon. gentleman (Mr. Canning) turned on the incompetency of the secret committee to carry on the investigation which was demanded? Did they not remember that the hon. member for Bramber (Mr. Wilberforce) had pledged himself to agree to an investigation, if it was to be conducted by a committee differently chosen? The present motion was brought forward to give him an opportunity to support in-
 831 832 833 834
 Mr. Blackburne  said, he was desirous of making a few observations on the petition from Manchester, which had been so much spoken of by the hon. gentlemen on the other side of the House. He could inform them that the 26 names which were said to be signed to the petition were not the names of most respectable people, as had been stated. On the contrary it was known, that the petitioners were some of the lower classes of society, and consisted for the most part of persons who were instrumental to the calling the meetings which took place at the period mentioned in Manchester. He wished also to inform the House that a resolution had been signed by 285 respectable persons at Manchester, stating that they were indebted to the constables and other persons employed at the time of those meet-
 835 836
 Mr. Bennet  observed, that ministers seemed disposed to content themselves with denying ail the complaints and allegations which were adduced against their conduct, without bringing forward any thing like evidence to support that denial, or acceding to any inquiry that might afford an opportunity of ascertaining the real merits of the case. The question before the House was simply this, whether the reports of this and the other House of parliament were of such a nature, contrasted with the petitions upon the table, as to furnish a  primâ facie 843 844 845 846
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  rose amid loud cries of "Question!" He said he would merely allude to the conduct of government in Scotland. If Oliver was not employed and paid for his services in Lancashire, it was clear that Richman was in the county of Lanark. The affidavit of Mac Laughlin asserted that that fellow had at a public meeting, said to a set of starving mechanics, that nothing but an alteration in the government could benefit them, and that parliament must be attacked by fear, not by prayer. The noble lord concluded by observing upon the inconsistency of the last hon. member who pretended to abhor spies, and yet would vote against the present motion for inquiry into their proceedings.
 Mr. Bathurst  contended, that the hon. mover had entirely abandoned the Manchester case, and instead of confining himself to the matter of the petition, had, indulged in general charges against his majesty's ministers. He gave credit to the hon. gentleman who spoke last, for much laudable zeal, although it frequently outran his discretion; and he thought him bound, after the strong assertions he had made, to mention the names of those on whose information he placed such implicit reliance. The hon. gentleman had stated, that they were not parties implicated with the conspirators. How then did they obtain their knowledge? They must have been present at their meetings, without communicating the information to the magistracy. They were, therefore, not the spies and informers of government, but the spies and informers of the hon. gentleman, they were, he presumed, an innocent part of the combustible matter of which the House had heard so much. An attempt had been made to draw a distinction between spies and informers [Hear, hear! from sir S. Romilly]. The hon. and learned gentleman appeared to support this distinction, and he was ready to admit his authority to be great; but he would oppose to it other great law authorities, those of lord chief justice Holt, and chief justice Eyre, who had held, that accomplices, whilst their credit was to be judged of by cirucmstances, were often the best witnesses, and ought to be encouraged by all governments, as otherwise the most heinous crimes would go unpunished. Suppose a man were to come to government, and confess that he had gone a certain way in the commission of treasonable acts, but that he repented of the proceeding, and was desirous of making atonement; would it be the duty of government to dismiss him immediately, instead of employing him as a means, of detecting and defeating the schemes of
 847 848
 Mr. Bathurst  admitted, that the hon. member had communicated to him the nature of the charge he had to bring against Oliver. At the same time he (Mr. B.) had cautioned him not to give too easy credit to the  ex-parte 850
 Lord Stanley  said, he should support the motion, but not on the ground that ministers were guilty of employing; spies for the purpose of fomenting disturbances in the country. His belief was, that Oliver and others had been solely employed to discover what was doing in the disturbed districts. Where blame was fairly to be cast on ministers, was, he thought, in the manner in which those spies were chosen. Though ministers did not warrant the fomenting of disturbances, yet they left it in the power of those acting under them to do so. He did not accuse the ministers of having wilfully exaggerated the distressed state of the country, but he thought they had not taken sufficient pains to ascertain what was the nature or the extent of the disturbances. They did not inquire so fully as they might have done into the purity of the sources from whence they derived their information on the state of the country. He thought ministers had been much calumniated; but they would be most so by themselves, if they refused to inquire into those acts, when inquiry, according to their own statement, would fully acquit them of the charges laid against them. On these grounds, he should certainly vote for the motion.
 Mr. F. Robinson  did not rise to oppose the motion, but merely to state, that he was intimately acquainted with the clergyman alluded to by the hon. and learned gentleman; and on his part he wished to state, that what had been said by the hon. and learned gentleman was quite correct. This was doing justice to the character and to the feelings of the clergyman, which were naturally hurt.
 Mr. F. Robinson  said, that since he had the honour of a seat in this House, he did not recollect any instance of a more extraordinary proceeding than that of the hon. gentleman who had brought forward this motion. The House must recollect the parade with which the subject was first brought forward—the vast and paramount importance which was attached to it by the gentlemen on the opposite side of the House—the long and minute details into which the hon. gentleman himself had entered upon the subject—and yet, after all this, what had he now brought forward? The petition from Manchester, upon which the motion was mainly
 827 828 829 alibi, 830
 Mr. Philips,  after moving that the petitions * * 821 822 823 824 l. 825 826
 Mr. Philips  said, he had not uttered one disrespectful word of sir John Byng. He had only mentioned that Dewhurst had been seen with him in his carriage. This was told to him by an hon. friend near him, who had his information from a person whom they both knew to be a very bad character. He had never said that all that had happened was the work of spies and informers.
 Mr. Philips  replied. He said he was surprised, after the sentiments which had been avowed Mr. Wilberforce, that, framed as the present motion was, he should not have the benefit of his vote, because if the
 862
 Mr. Tierney,  before he entered upon the question, desired that the motion
 851 852 853 854 855 856 857 858
 Mr. Brougham  admitted that a great improvement had taken place in them since Mr. Howard's time, yet he apprehended great abuses still prevailed. Of course, the clothing must considerably add to the expense of these establishments.
 Mr. Brougham  said, he rose to move the renewal of a committee which had already in two former sessions been engaged in a great and laborious investigation, and from which a large body of evidence had already been reported to the House; he alluded to the committee appointed to inquire into the Education of the Lower Orders. The committee had not been enabled to complete its labours before the close of last session; but he pledged himself last session that he should move the renewal of the committee at an early period in the present session, that it might lay the result of its labours before the House in sufficient time to admit of some measures being adopted before the close of the session. He had already stated to the House some proceedings which the committee were of opinion ought to be taken to remedy the want of education in different parts of the country. They were of opinion that assistance ought to be given by the public towards the erection of schools in different places where it might be deemed advisable to have them, but that the principle of granting a permanent income either to government or to any society, for the support of schools, ought not to be sanctioned—that where there was a want of the accommodation of school houses and houses for teachers, means for supplying that want ought to be furnished by the public, either by way of loan or otherwise, according to circumstances. It was the opinion of the committee, that a moderate sum of money was all that would be wanted for this purpose. When they considered the great sums which had been distributed in a sister
 816 l. l. l. l. l. l. l, 817 818 l. l. l. 819
 Lord Lascelles,  on comparing the speech of the honourable mover, when he presented the Manchester petition, with that which he had made this night, could not help thinking that he had abandoned the whole of his case, and must feel that he was not likely to be strongly supported. The noble lord bore testimony to the conduct of general Byng, who was eminently entitled to the thanks, not only of those who regarded the preservation of peace in the districts in which he commanded, but of those deluded persons also whom he prevented from doing farther mischief. This testimony he felt it his duty to offer, from a knowledge of the proceedings, and from a conviction of the rectitude of the respectable officer alluded to; upon whom, however, he could not suppose that the hon. mover deliberately meant to cast any reflexion, as he hoped would appear from that hon. member's explanation. With regard to spies and informers, he could say that he had no predilection whatever for the character or employment of such persons. Such persons, he had no hesitation in saying, ought not to be employed by any government, with a view to inflame a mass of combustible matter, as some gentlemen on the other side had expressed it; but at the same time he must say, that it was the duty of government to make use of the information of Oliver, or any other person, for the purpose of preventing the explosion of such matter. As to Oliver, he firmly believed that a great deal of what had been said respecting his conduct, was mere clamour. He could never, indeed, concur in the opinion, that ministers had employed this person for the purpose of excitement. On the contrary, he would deny that such was ever the intention of government. The hon. mover had stated, that according to the general opinion of the country, ministers had abused the powers with which they were invested under the suspension of the Habeas Cor-
 840
 Mr. W. Courtenay  said, he was for some time at a loss to discover what the nature of the hon. gentleman's motion was; but he at length found that it was intended to catch and entrap the hon. member for Bramber, so as to oblige him to give the measure his support. Upon what grounds was the House called upon to enter into a discussion of the present measure? They were called upon to censure the means used for the public safety at a time when the country had just escaped from the greatest dangers, and when the alarm, which so justly existed in the public mind was subsided from a knowledge that the danger was now oven They were told that the petitions laid on the table from time to time this session, contained such a list of grievances (all of which were stated to be true) as merited the strictest investigation. But now when it was found that the allegations contained in those petitions could not be supported, it was said, that the general feeling of the country required, that some inquiry should be made. The hon. supporters of the motion were obliged to shift their ground, as they found each successive point untenable. With respect to the general feeling of the country, as it was only a matter of opinion what that feeling was, nothing but opinion could be advanced in opposition to such an observation. He thought that the general feeling of the country was decidedly against the statements contained in the petitions, on which the motion then before the House was grounded, and he would instance the letter just read by his hon. friend in support of that opinion. If the hon. member who made the motion, and the other hon. members who supported him were so-
 837 838 839
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that he should not have risen but for the challenge thrown out on the other side respecting the private character of Oliver. Only the day before the report of the last Secret Committee was presented, evidence had been offered and produced to him, which
 849 l
 Mr. W. Smith  still adhered to his belief of the story which had been related to him, and was anxious that the subject should be investigated before a committee. As to the testimony of Jane Oliver, it related to the obtaining of papers by Restall during the absence of Oliver, and formed one of the grounds of set-oil' before the arbitrator; so that in fact her evidence was extremely material.
 Mr. W. Smith  remarked, that in many cases, from the great improvement the original bequest had received, the object for which the fund was bequeathed could not exhaust it. If the property bequeathed had been originally of the value of 100 l. l
 Mr. Wilberforce  began by saying, that he should not have offered himself to the attention of the House, if he had not been called upon in so marked a manner. He was not the more disposed to agree to the present motion on account of the tone of easy confidence assumed by the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down, for he had known that right hon. gentleman too long and too well, not to know that he always appeared most confident when his cause was desperate. The fact was, that nothing could be more loose, vague, and indefinite than the present motion. When a motion had been formerly brought forward concerning the persons supposed to be alluded to in the report of the Secret Committee, as having instigated the insurrection they were sent to detect, he had objected to that motion, because he did not think that the committee had referred to any specific case which had come to their notice. Indeed, he knew that the meaning of the committee was very different; for they distinctly saw and directly asserted, that a general rising had been determined upon before that man, Oliver, had appeared upon the scene at all. The committee
 859 860 861
 Lord Milton,  while he felt every respect, esteem, and affection for general Byng, considered all that the hon. gentleman and his noble colleague had said of him to be quite beside the question. As to what the learned gentleman had said of Oliver's not being called as a witness at the Derby trials, it had been repeatedly and unanswerably replied, that if Oliver had done all the mischief imputed to him, his evidence could have been of no service to the prisoners, but, on the contrary, it would at once have established their guilt. How could any inference be drawn from the perfect ignorance of him manifested by witnesses who had only seen the insurrection, but who had known nothing of its origin? But all this did not signify a straw in the present question. The question really was, whether the extraordinary circumstance of spies having excited disturbances, as stated in their own report, and complained of in the petitions, should be allowed to pass without any inquiry. He thought that inquiry was loudly called for, and his noble colleague ought to have thought so: but he was in a dilemma between his abhorrence of spies, and the necessity of detecting conspiracy. The means of obtaining detection was the ground of difference. He sincerely acquitted ministers of the intention to excite disturbances through the medium of spies: but they were not therefore acquitted of the consequence of having employed them. They had heard statements of Oliver having been in different parts of the country, entrapping the unwary, holding meetings, using vio-
 841 842
 Mr. Wynn  said, that he had to state a difficulty in his mind relative to the proceeding of the noble lord, which was, whether, supposing the House should agree with his motion, it would be productive of any effect whatever. A similar
 867
 Mr. Bankes  said, that the motion of the noble lord was strictly conformable to usage. That House, and that House alone, had the proper control over the mutiny bill. In certain instances, it was true, the other House, when they considered the grants made by that House as extravagant, thought proper to make a seasonable reduction, and the House of Commons acceded; having granted too much by a hasty vote, they thought proper, upon reconsideration, to concur in its reduction. He hoped that if they now agreed to the reduction of 5,000 men, as proposed by the motion of the noble lord, that it would not be competent for the government to go beyond it. In time of
 868
 Lord Nugent  said, that he had seldom heard a speech more honourable to the person himself, or more useful to the House, than that of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down. He did not mean to detain the House long; he would only offer a few general observations. There was one topic on which he could not but animadvert—he meant the employment of foreign mercenaries. There was one regiment, consisting of four battalions, composed entirely of foreigners of different nations. This he thought an extremely exceptionable measure. The only difficulty that could be felt in the disbanding of any regiment was the reluctance to deprive so many of our gallant countrymen of their usual subsistence; but no such difficulty could be felt with regard to the 60th regiment. Why, then, should it be retained upon our peace establishment, especially while so many of our native regiments were disbanded? There was another point also upon which he felt himself called upon to differ, not only from the plan of ministers, but from the opinion of his noble friend who made the present motion, and that was with regard to the army of occupation. He felt a strong objection that so many Englishmen should be kept among such scenes and such society as they were exposed to under a military government, or that British soldiers should be fixed in a situation where they were but too liable to imbibe notions and sentiments which it would be treason to support upon their
 874
 Mr. Davies Gilbert  said, that after the very luminous explanation which the hon. gentleman had given respecting the objects of his bill, and the benefits which must arise from it, he considered it unnecessary to detain the House by any observations of his own. He most heartily concurred in the measure, and thought it highly desirable that some steps should be taken for improving and perfecting time keepers, and the construction of lunar tables. No thing, he believed, had come nearer to perfection than the astronomical instru-
 879
 Mr. Brovgham  said, that he did not rise for the purpose of opposing the measure, but he wished to be informed whether any difference of opinion had arisen among the members of the board of longitude? No one, he believed, would object to the salary of 100 l
 Mr. Gurney  rose to call the attention of the House to the present total abandonment of the late Mr. Windham's plan for substituting enlistments for limited periods to engagements for life. The hon. gentleman entered into some detail, to prove that life service had never been recognized by the law, nor ever had been brought into practice previously to the accession of George 1st; when the last mutiny act of queen Anne, having entitled the troops to their discharge after three years service, the whig ministry of that day omitted the clause, on the avowed pretext of the great danger of training Scotchmen, and letting them loose, again to strengthen the Pretender's armies. The practice, thus commencing, went on silently till 1749 and 1750, when Mr. Thomas Pitt, supported by generals Conway and Oglethorpe, moved for leave to bring in a bill, to entitle men to their discharges after ten years; which motions were lost by very inconsiderable majorities. In 1807 Mr. Windham carried his measure; but in 1808 the noble lord opposite returning to power, introduced—under the pretext of the great exigencies of that moment—a clause in his mutiny bill giving an option to such persons as chose to enlist for life, We were now at peace
 876
 Mr. Croker  rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill for consolidating the different acts passed for rewarding the Discovery of the Longitude. His purpose, he apprehended, would be at once explained, when he stated that these acts were no fewer than twenty one in number, many of which had partly expired, and were still partly in existence. The object contemplated by all these acts was the discovery of the longitude at sea, the inquiry after which might be traced as far back as the period when Philip 2nd of Spain was vainly attempting to establish a superior marine. The parliamentary enactments which had so rapidly succeeded each other since the time of sir Isaac Newton, for the purpose of encouraging experiments, commenced in the reign of queen Anne. A variety of ingenious and elaborate investigations had subsequently shown, that although there were two modes of prosecuting the inquiry with partial success, the one mechanical and the other scientific, it was essential to the ultimate perfection of the discovery, that scientific principles should predominate, Mr. Harrison had obtained a very large reward for constructing a time-keeper, which, on the first essay, which was a voyage to Barbadoes, did approximate to the nearest point, viz. 30 minutes, or half a degree, required by the act of parliament. A considerable reward had likewise been voted to an eminent mathematician for constructing tables on purely scientific principles, which, although they did not advance the discovery, brought to perfection the means previously acquired for that purpose. The House must be aware, that the question depended on astronomi-
 877 * 878 l l l l., l., l
 Mr. Croker  stated, that he had never heard of any disagreement in the board of longitude: such disagreement was, indeed, hardly practicable, as there were only two or three meetings in a year, and they sat for a very few hours. He found by the act of queen Anne, that nine commissioners were appointed; but it was now proposed that there should be only six. The patronage would be certainly very little felt, and learned men would look more to the honour than to the emolument of the office. The salaries were to be put on the ordinary estimates of the navy and the elections would be annual, subject to the control and revision of parliament. It was because he was anxious that no imputations of a wish for paltry patronage should be cast on this measure, that he would at once state to the House, that appointments had been offered to Dr. Woolaston, Dr. Young, and captain Taylor.
 Mr. J. H. Smyth  felt great satisfaction at the disposition the House had shown to listen with interest, not to plans of destruction, not to the false glories of war,
 880
 Mr. Warre  could not see the necessity for any larger military force at present, than existed in the year 1792; and if the manner in which the army were generally employed was considered, it would be evident to every rational being that no such necessity could be pleaded; unless it were deemed material to have soldiers stationed as sentinels upon Chinese bridges, to guard French mortars, or to attend idle shows. It was extraordinary, he observed, with what facility ministers could get rid of the authority of Mr. Pitt when it suited their purpose, while they held up that authority as an object of the highest reverence, on other occasions. Because Mr. Pitt had proposed a moderate military establishment, in 1792, in consequence of the probable duration of peace and the embarrassed state of our finances, that minister was, truly, deceived, and destitute of political foresight. The insurrection in the Isle of Ely, about two years ago, was put down by a cornet of dragoons, a relative of the hon. member for Wiltshire. If, indeed, the French Revolution, with its desolating principles, were yet in operation—if the victories of 1814 and 1815 had not taken place—if the treaties of the noble lord had not been signed, then indeed he could understand the arguments of the hon. gentlemen opposite, in support of such an extensive military force. One would suppose there was still the fear of some convulsion. Indeed, from the roundabout manner in which the noble lord expressed himself as to a tranquillity, not yet consolidated, it would seem that the advocates for the present establishment thought so. It was with regret that he saw in the great states of the continent a determination to uphold what the noble secretary had so justly described—a great military monster. But with what consis-
 875
 Mr. Ord  said, that although he seldom offered himself to the attention of the House, he felt himself bound on this occasion to raise his voice, however feeble, against the system of ministers, because it appeared to him calculated to reduce the country to a military government. With respect to the alleged necessity of a large military force for the defence of the metropolis, he could not see that any increase had taken place in the extent or population of this city since 92, which could call for the advanced force proposed by the noble lord, But even admitting an increase of population in the metropolis, according to the noble lord's statement, how could such increase form any argument for the increase of our military force, unless it were argued that the police of London should be managed by the same means, as those resorted to in Berlin or Petersburgh, or the other capitals of military and arbitrary governments? The taste of such governments had no doubt become very prevalent of late years in this country; for there was no levee now without a crowd of soldiers parading the streets, and guarding all the avenues to the royal residence. If our ancestors could witness such military exhibitions, they would be apt to imagine that the French, or some foreign enemy, was actually at our doors. There was obviously no necessity for such exhibitions. And was it only to gratify a foolish, foppish taste for pomp and parade, that ministers proposed, in the present state of our finances, to maintain a larger peace establishment than was ever known before? Time was, when his majesty held his levees without any military to parade the streets, and such practice was, he had no hesitation in saying, more suitable to the character and real dignity of the monarch of a free people, than the practice which had obtained of late years. The enemies of reform and innovation seemed to think an increased military force necessary to preserve the peace of an increased population. But would the ministers generally adopt the noble lord's doctrine, that the mass of the people were so discontented, that nothing but the terror of a military force could prevent an explosion? If so, what a reflection upon the conduct and character of the
 873
 Lord Althorp  rose to move the Reduction in the Army Grant, of which he had given notice. In bringing forward this motion, he could not help expressing a wish, that some member more competent than himself had undertaken the task.
 863 l., l l 864 865 866 l
 Lord Palmerston  said, he would not pursue the question of regularity in the proceedings which had been alluded to. That he should leave to members better qualified than he was; but he would meet the question of reduction on its own ground, and show, he trusted, to the satisfaction of the House, that no sufficient reason had been given for that diminution of the forces which the noble lord had called for. The noble lord had taken the ground of former periods, and comparing the forces then kept up with those which were now proposed, had concluded that the latter were much more than were necessary. He had gone back to the year 1786, and stated the comparatively small number of men kept up at that time; but the noble lord had omitted to notice, that in 1786, and from that year to 1792, we had in our pay a body of 10,000 Hessians, which, though they were not within this island, were at least available in cases of emergency, and should have been counted in enumerating the force kept up at that period. With respect to the year 1792, he did not think it was fair to compare it with the present year. The circumstances of the country at both periods were wholly different, and he should fur-
 869 870 871 872
 The Attorney General  having moved the order of the clay for the first reading of the Indemnity bill, began by observing, that, on the present occasion he trusted it might be thought better, that before the House went into any debate upon it, the bill should be printed, in order that every member might have an opportunity of perusing it before the third reading. On considering the events that had taken place in this country within the last thirteen or fourteen months, and the measures which parliament had found it necessary to adopt as also the proceedings in the House of Lords, be was certain that the more the contents of this bill was reflected on, the stronger would appear the justice and necessity of passing it. He wished to call the recollection of the House to previous proceedings of this nature, not for the purpose of saying, that because in former times indemnity bills had passed, that therefore the present bill ought to pass: but, in order to show the occasions on which such bills had been produced and sanctioned by both Houses. And he would point out to the recollection of the House, that though in certain circumstances, these bills had differed, yet the
 882 883 * 884 885 886 887 888 889 890 891
 Mr. Fremanile  said:—Although I do not think the arguments already advanced against this bill have had great force, yet I am anxious to take this opportunity of offering my public opinion in favour of it. I am anxious to do so, to preserve my own consistency, to maintain the character and dignity of the House of Commons, and to do justice to those who have executed the powers entrusted to them by the legislature in the course of the last session of parliament:—when I say that the arguments do not appear to me to have great weight, I mean, Sir, to apply that observation as in reference to the bill now before the House; for. I cannot but think that all arguments relating to the dangers which existed at the time the
 913 914 915 916 917 918
 Lord Nugent  said, he did not think that this question had any thing to do with the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act. He should not now enter into the reasons which induced him to give his vote on that measure last year; but he thought that those who voted against the suspension owed it to themselves, to the House, to the country, and even to ministers themselves, to institute a fuller investigation than was embodied in the report then upon the table. His hon. friend who spoke last, had quoted the opinion of a right hon. gentleman whose loss, he believed, they both sincerely regretted—he meant the late Mr. Ponsonby. It was true that that right hon. gentleman went into the committee impressed with the opinion that great danger existed; but he came out of it, believing that there were greater grounds of complaint. And what was the vote which he gave on that measure? He voted against the suspen-
 919 920 921 922
 Mr. Marryat  observed, that he had voted against the Suspension act, and he looked back with considerable satisfaction to this vote, which he thought every subsequent event had tended to justify. Every person who had since been convicted, had been convicted in the ordinary course of the law. The question now, however, was, whether ministers had abused the powers with which they were invested, or whether they had acted upon them with discretion and moderation? He thought that the government had demanded those powers from a conviction in their minds of the necessity of the case; and while he took credit to himself for the vote which he had given, he was equally bound and willing to give credit to those who had proposed the introduction of that measure. From what he had heard, he could find no ground whatever to charge his majesty's ministers with any abuse of authority, and therefore he saw no cause to induce him to withhold from them an act of indemnity. For these reasons, although he had voted against the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, he should now vote for the bill of Indemnity.
 Lord Castlereagh  appealed to the House if ever they had heard a more unfounded attack than that which had just been made by the hon. and learned gentleman. He had affirmed that on this question ministers had not spoken. But the question had been argued in a more fitting way perhaps than if ministers had offered their sentiments, for the measure had been powerfully defended by several gentlemen whose support they were not in the habit of receiving. But he really thought the hon. and learned gentleman seemed himself to show a great want of confidence in his own case. Had he came out from his hiding place [a laugh], he would probably have found no reluctance on the part of his majesty's ministers to meet him. But the hon. and learned gentleman seemed to be dreaming every night on the subject of elections, on which he had given some information quite new to him, and he believed to the House, namely, their immediate dissolution [Hear, hear! from the ministerial side]. He had
 925
 Mr. Canning  said, that the hon. and learned gentleman had stated some rules as to the forms of debate which were true in themselves, but not in their application to the present case. It was true that that night nearly all the speaking had been on the other side of the House, but certainly not all on the same side of the question. The reason why there was a want of occupation on the ministerial side of the House was that the work had been taken out of their hands. The hon. and learned gentleman seemed not to be aware of the length of the debate which was just concluded. That could not be called a very short debate, in which there had been twelve different speakers; and yet such had been the debate of that night. It could not be called a very extraordinary debate in which there were six speakers on one side of the question, and six on the other side; and yet such had been the debate of that night. When an accusation was brought
 927 928
 Mr. Canning  assured the right hon. baronet, that it was not from any disrespect towards him that he had offered himself to the attention of the House. It
 930
 Mr. Powlett  said, he was sorry to differ from those with whom he had so often been happy to concur, but he felt it his duty to give his support to the present bill.
 Mr. Protheroe,  adverting to the observations made by the hon. and learned gentleman who had opened the present debate on the petitions which had been presented for annual parliaments, and universal suffrage, remarked, that while he agreed with the hon. and learned gentleman that revolution and anarchy would be the inevitable consequences of complying with the wishes of the petitioners, he thought it
 903
 Mr. Brougham  said, that surely ministers would not so far lay aside all regard to appearances as to force on the second reading of this important bill to-morrow. There were three or four notices which would have precedence of it, on each of which considerable discussion might be anticipated. Did his hon. and learned friend mean by this to say at once to the House and the country, that he considered all argument superfluous and unnecessary—that the question was to be carried alone by numbers?[loud cheering from the ministerial benches]. He implored the House, acquainted as they must be with the fact, that in ten days they were to be dissolved, and were to be sent to the country to their constituents [hear, hear!] to consider the impression which their conduct could not fail to produce. The experience, he thought, might have been spared, that they rested this cause on numbers alone—that relying on the eloquence of votes, they deemed all other eloquence superfluous —that the persons who had been deprived of their liberty under the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, were to be deprived of all legal redress, because such was the will and pleasure of his majesty's ministers, who did not think it even necessary to condescend to give any reasons in justification of such a measure. He did not say that this was meant as an insult, but certainly it had every appearance of it. When ministers in this manner met their opponents with no arguments, but, without saying any thing, put the question at once to the vote, this was as much as to say, "We have 190 votes, and we do not care for your arguments—we do not think it necessary to give one reason for what we ask" [hear, hear! from the ministerial benches]. After the division was declared, the manner in which the account of the numbers was received by the ministerial benches seemed to say, "Aye, that was just what we expected." It was as much as saying—We knew we were right.—Not right as to the merits of the measure, for we never condescended to tell you the reasons why we were right [Hear, hear! from the opposition benches]. And the worthy alderman (sir W. Curtis) who seemed to enjoy the triumph so much, knew not why he was right at all on the merits of the bill;—but though he knew
 924
 Mr. Brougham  rose amidst cries of "Spoke, spoke!" He thought, when he had been alluded so personally, he ought to be allowed an opportunity of defending himself. Whether he took part in any debate or not was a matter of so little importance to any one but himself, that he owed an apology to the House for now alluding to that subject, even after what had fallen from the noble lord. The only ground on which ha had abstained from bearing a part in the debate, either on the present or on any other occasion, was, because he had heard nothing which required an answer. He solemnly assured the noble lord and the House, if it was of any consequence for them to know it, that he had never, on any one occasion, lately heard any thing from the other side to which he did not consider all answer superfluous, except in the question as to the standing army, and he appealed to the House whether he did not [Here the cries of "Spoke, spoke!" were repeated, and the hon. and learned gentleman sat down].
 Mr. Stanhope  was persuaded the House would agree with him, that if it appeared that ministers had acted firmly and judiciously, though at the same time temperately and humanely, in the discharge of the extraordinary powers which had been repossd in them by the act of last session, it was the duty of parliament to save them—not from responsibility—but from the indefinite vengeance of those whose malignant designs their prudence and vigilance had defeated. If the suspension bill had not passed—if the seeds of discontent had in consequence budded and ripened into open rebellion—what would have been said of the supineness of those who had neglected to provide the proper means of counteracting the evil? Again, the suspension bill having passed, if nevertheless the disturbances had increased until they burst forth with irresistible fury, would not that event have been attributed by the opponents of government to the irritation which so strong a measure had occasioned?—Certain it was, that at the period when the suspension bill
 904 905 906
 Mr. Lambton  said, that it was not then his intention to enter into any discussion of the principles or details of the measure before the House, as other opportunities would offer for that discussion. But he would apply himself to the broad principle which had been little adverted to by the hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last, namely, the conduct of those ministers who had brought forward this measure of indemnity. Before any such measure was acceded to, he thought it indispensable to justice, to the character of the House, and to the satisfaction of the public mind, that a full, fair, and impartial investigation should take place as to the Conduct of ministers for the last twelve months, in order to ascertain whether they deserved indemnity or impeachment.—The latter was, in his opinion, that which they deserved for the many arbitrary imprisonments, cruel inflictions and disgraceful acts which had taken place under their auspices, since the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act. Entertaining these sentiments he could not allow the bill to be read a first time without stating his sentiments, as after the first reading, the nature, extent, and provisions of the particular measure would justly form a chief part of the discussion, and prevent his entering, unfettered, into the more important view of the question to which he had alluded. They were at length come to the winding up of the disgraceful measures which had been adopted by ministers. They were called upon that night by the hon. and learned gentleman to throw an impenetrable veil over all the acts of tyranny and oppression that had been committed under the Suspension act. They were required to stifle the voice of just complaint—td disregard the numerous peti-
 892 893 They They they 894 895 896 At last, as from a cloud,— —loud was the acclaim: Forth rush' din haste the great consulting peers, Rais'd from their dark divan, and with like joy Congratulant approach'd him; who, with hand Silence, and with these words attention, won, —Long were to tell What I have done, what suffered; with what pain Voyag'd the unreal, vast, unbounded deep Of horrible confusion: over which, By  Sin Death, To expedite  your 897 898 899
 Mr. J. H. Smyth,  adverting to the two recitals in the preamble, of the causes which rendered the bill of indemnity necessary, observed, that that which referred to the supposed over-exertion, in some instances, of magisterial authority, was (it was a notorious fact) not in the bill originally; but was suddenly introduced to meet a particular purpose. The hon. and learned gentleman had, however, contended, that the magistrates had acted according to law. If so, what occasion was there to indemnify them? And, besides, the hon. and learned gentleman knew very well that if no action were brought against any magistrate, within six months of the commission of the over-exercise of power with which he was charged, he became indemnified from the consequence of this act, by the 24th of George 2nd. He himself did not believe that there had been any instances of such excesses of authority on the part of the magistrates. At least none such appeared in the report of the committee. If, however, there had been any, let them be inquired into, and let them not be made one ground of a legislative proceeding without any investigation on the part of the legislature of their foundation. With respect to the other ground on which the bill proceeded, namely, the inconvenience of disclosing the information that had been afforded—it had been argued that if actions were permitted to be brought against the secretary of state or the magistrates, their defence would necessarily occasion the disclosure of such information. Deducting from the ninety-six cases of the persons who had been apprehended and detained under the Suspension act, those who had been tried, it would appear that forty-nine was the utmost number of those who could by possibility bring any such actions as those alluded to.—For his own part, he did not
 907 in flagrante bello civili, 908 909
 Mr. Masterton Ure  said, he approved highly of this bill, which indemnified persons for a breach of the law, in admitting supplies of provisions into the West India islands in neutral vessels, and without which supplies they must have been exposed to all the horrors of starvation. He availed himself of this opportunity of directing the attention of the House to the unfortunate situation in which certain of the West India colonies were placed. He alluded to the Leeward islands, or old colonies. These were settled so far back as the year 1630, or about that time. They then enjoyed the monopoly of the trade with Great Britain, in consideration of which, at a subsequent time, they agreed to pay a duty of 4½ per cent on their stock to government, shipping their produce to England, and receiving their supplies from the mother country. In the progress of time their soil became impoverished, and they wove obliged to convert their provision grounds into sugar plantations. Their dependence for a supply of provisions was on distant countries, On Great Britain, the British settlements in Canada, and the United States of America, but limited as to all, to be carried in British vessels. This has been the case since the close of the American war, when restrictions were laid on their intercourse with the United States. Of late years
 881
 Mr. Brand  said, that on a question of such high constitutional importance, he should feel regret in giving a silent vote, particularly as it was probable that from circumstances, he should not be able to avail himself of the opportunity of discussing the measure in its future stages. If he wanted additional reasons for his strong opposition to any farther proceeding with this bill, he found them in the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman who submitted it that night to the consideration of the House. When that hon. and learned gentleman laid such stress upon the precedents on which he grounded his proposition, he begged the House to pause, before it added another, and on such comparatively weak reasons, to that number. In his opinion, those precedents were not applicable to the circumstances of the present time; but as that part of the subject had been so ably argued by his
 910 911
 Sir M. W. Ridley  expressed his surprise that no member of his majesty's administration had thought it his duty to attempt some reply to the able speech of his hon. friend. [A cry of Hear! from the ministerial side of the House.] Perhaps that cheer intimated that he had prevented somebody from doing so, by prematurely offering himself. If so, he was quite ready to wait, and would postpone his pretensions to address the House.—The on. baronet accordingly sat down, and the Speaker read the question a second time, when a long pause ensued.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  again rose. He said he presumed he was to attribute the silence of the gentlemen opposite to a consciousness of the justice of their cause, although he was at a loss to conjecture the grounds on which that consciousness could be founded. He had risen principally for the purpose of making a few observations on some of the precedents adduced by the hon. and learned gentleman in support of the proposed bill, although he was aware that it was great presumption in him to follow that hon. and learned gentle man in argument. The hon. and learned gentleman had dwelt much on the precedent of 1689. Now in that act there was no parallel to this, nor were the circumstances of those times at all similar to the present. The House were well aware of the events which called for the act of indemnity of 1689. The legitimate sovereign had been expelled from the throne, and another prince had been chosen in his place. Many of the most powerful families in the kingdom were attached to the abdicated king, and the battle of Athlone had been fought in 1689, in hopes of recovering the throne for him. The militia of the country were in those circumstances called out, which was contrary to an act passed in the reign of Charles 2nd. This required an act of indemnity. The preamble of that act
 900 901 902
 Sir S. Romilly  said, he rose to move as an amendment, that the bill be read a second time on Wednesday. What his hon. and learned friend had advanced was certainly most true. On one side of the House there had been no discussion [Cries of no, no]. He would repeat it, there had been no discussion whatever. When the grounds advanced in support of a measure were answered—and in his opinion they had in the present case been answered in a satisfactory manner it was
 926
 Sir S. Romilly  withdrew his amendment, on the understanding, that if the second reading of the bill could not come on tomorrow before a late hour, it would be postponed.
 Sir J. Newport  said, he would follow the example of the right hon. gentleman, by also giving a recommendation to his honourable friends. He would recommend them to avail themselves of the forms of the House, for the purpose of protecting the minority within those walls, and the people of England at large. The right hon. gentleman had stated, that if any protracted discussion should take place on any preceding question, ministers would not persevere in pressing the measure. He could inform that right hon. gentleman, that there was a question which, according to the rules of the House, had the priority, on which a discussion was likely to arise, unless the right hon. gentleman was prepared to maintain, that the salt duties did not present a question of importance to the country? Would it be right, after a long debate on such a
 * 929
 Lord Althorp  said, that his view of the case was very different from that of the hon. and learned gentleman. The only ground, in his opinion, on which the ministers could claim a bill of Indemnity was, that they had exercised powers
 912
 Sir F. Burdett  said, he had several Petitions to present from Warrington for annual parliaments and universal suffrage. The attorney general had last night stated, that those who demanded annual parliaments and universal suffrage, had a design to overturn the constitution. If these persons were conspirators, they conspired in the open day. It had been proved to demonstration, that parliaments had for a long period of our history been held once a year or oftener; there were new writs, and lists of new names, for every session, sometimes two, sometimes three, and in a few instances four sessions within the year, for each of which there was a new election. The statute, that a parliament should be holden once a year or oftner, implied that a new election should take place every session. And when the nature of parliamentary business was considered, that they could not then be corrupted or bribed according to the fancy of the Crown, it was rational to suppose that the members would be dismissed as soon as the business for which they were sent was done. Members did not then expect to mend or make their fortunes in parliament; it was a hard duty and a personal risk (to protect them from which, the privilege of parliament was established), and as soon as they had performed one duty for their constituents, they were not anxious immediately to go again. It would be more difficult to prove that universal suffrage prevailed; though from the language in all ancient writings, and from a variety of incontestible documents,
 946
 Sir F. Burdett  hoped the House would not take the assertions of the hon. member, though he had given them so great an extent, for absolute proof. The hon. member disbelieved the allegations in the petition, not only because he was acquainted with the circumstances of the case, but, what was a most extraordinary reason, because he knew all the magistrates. Surely such a statement as that did not afford any ground for withholding inquiry.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the subject, in every point of view, was worthy of the most serious consideration. He hoped those who would be appointed to investigate it, would recollect that those duties afforded a very large revenue; and, if they were withdrawn, that it would be necessary to adopt some other mode of raising a sum equivalent to that given up.
 Lord Folkestone  asked the noble lord whether he wished to enter into the contest formerly mentioned relative to the precedents as to bills of indemnity? If so, he was prepared to prove, that none of the precedents quoted justified the bill now called for.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, he was not prepared to say how far the precedents quoted might apply. His opinions on the subject of precedents were, however, unchanged.
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that his right hon. friend had no objection to the motion generally, but to the mode in which it was framed. The operations of a committee on the subject would be very slow and laborious. If a motion for the production of the account, for the inquiry into which the committee was to be appointed, did not elicit sufficient information, farther measures might be resorted to. He would move, therefore, as an amendment, "That there be laid before the House a statement of the measures taken for destroying such books and papers relative to the property tax as were no longer necessary for the public service."
 Mr. Egerton  was extremely glad that a committee had been granted to inquire into this subject. The greatest benefit would be produced by it. The county which he had the honour to represent, suffered much from the existing system. The mischief was great, in an agricultural point of view, but it was still greater, as far as the morals of the country were concerned, which were materially injured, in consequence of the temptation to smuggling, induced by these high duties.
 Lord Costlereagh  observed, that as the order now moved was the most important, and as there was no precedence with respect to orders of the day, the hon. gentleman would feel the propriety of suffering the Indemnity bill to proceed, and not put it off till a late hour in the evening.
 Lord Castlereagh  observed, that the arguments of the hon. and learned gentleman, though applicable to the bill in committee, did not bear upon the principle of the measure on the second reading.
 Sir Francis Burdett  observed, that he did not intend to enter into a detailed discussion at present on the Indemnity bill, particularly as it was his intention to deliver his opinion on it after it came out of the committee, on the third reading. He was anxious to offer an observation on the statement just made by the noble lord. He did not mean to imply, that the person of whom the noble lord spoke did not deserve the character, at the same time that he could not help adverting to the singular kind of phraseology with which he introduced the office of a gaoler; as if,
 959 960
 Mr. Boswell  said, that he did not rise to oppose the petition being laid on the table, but to observe that the acts alluded to in this as well as in the two former petitions, were not done under the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act, but according to the ordinary course of law. Therefore if the Indemnity bill were passed, the parties complaining would not be precluded from redress for such acts, if the complaints were well-founded.
 Mr. Boswell  said, that he did not support the bill alluded to upon such specific grounds. He certainly was not aware that this bill extended to the cases stated by the petitioners; but persuaded of the loyal zeal of the persons complained of by the petitioners, he was glad to find that the bill proceeded to such an extent as the learned gentleman had stated, and he should the more readily vote for its adoption.
 Mr. Charles Barclay  observed, that he never rose under stronger feelings than on the present occasion, and he regretted extremely that the hon. and learned gentleman had not delayed bringing forward the petition for at least a short time, that some of his majesty's ministers might be in their places to hear the explanation which he was anxious to give. The question was not only one which interested the people at large, as affecting one of the necessaries of life, but it was also important to the government, as a question of revenue, as the duties upon the beer brewed by the eleven principal porter breweries of London paid an annual duty of nearly 900,000 l 938 * 939 940 .d, d.
 Mr. Bathurst  said, that the objection proposed should be made in the committee and not upon the second reading of the bill. In the committee, the House could dispose of the question of delaying the
 956
 Mr. C. Calvert  said, he would not press the subject upon the House, as it seemed to be the general wish that the discussion should he adjourned; but he could not avoid observing, that he had never heard such a tissue of false imputations against any body of men, as that which was contained in the petition. He, for one, concerned, was most anxious that a committee should be appointed to ascertain the truth, if any there was in the allegations.
 Mr. Davenport  was very happy that some relief was about to be afforded from one of the most oppressive taxes ever imposed on the country.
 Mr. Tierney  denied that the subject could be so well discussed at any other time. If the bill was now read a second time, there could be no future opportunity to correct what formed so material a part of the bill. But the noble lord was so elated by his triumph last night, that he could not think it possible for any man to be right but himself. Reason, and argument, and discussion, must all give way at once before his invincible majority. It was quite evident that one-half of this bill was quite new to the House. The House thought inquiry necessary as to the proceedings towards persons committed under the suspension act, previously to the introduction of any act of indemnity. As to the other proceedings respecting arms, papers, and persons connected with tumultuous assemblies, no inquiry was instituted, and no information was given. The report of the secret committee was surely necessary, or ministers would not have proposed such a solemn proceeding. But the report never glanced at the seizures in question. It had been much insisted on, that no persons had been apprehended for treason, but in consequence of information on oath. Were the searches for arms and papers upon oath? They were bound by their own proceeding to answer this question before they called for indemnity. If the smaller class of violations of law were justified by
 955
 Mr. Brougham  asked, what did the argument of the hon. member amount to? He knew nothing of the truth or falsehood of the present petition, but, it seemed, he was acquainted with the groundlessness of petitions that had been drawn up by other persons, with whom the present petitioner was wholly unacquainted. The hon. member would not listen to this petition, because it came from the same quarter from which others had proceeded. Certainly it was from a man—a man of Glasgow—a man who complained of ill-treatment—and that was the whole similarity. Now, though some petitioners might have acted improperly, the petitions of all who complained of ill-treatment were not therefore to be looked upon as fabulous. The hon. member said the meeting was for a very different purpose from that pretended; and this statement he founded on the confessions of certain persons who had been taken. But there was another sort of evidence, which, he was sorry to say was falling into discredit in that House, namely, the evidence of witnesses before a jury. Why was not the man brought to trial? The hon. member said there was abundance of evidence in the confessions of the persons taken with him, and added to that, Mr. Salmond might have given his testimony. There was then abundant evidence to convict
 950
 Mr. Brougham  rose to present a Petition from James Robertson, a weaver, in Bridgeton near Glasgow. The learned gentleman observed, that having no knowledge of the facts, he could not be responsible for the statements contained in the petition. But, as a great deal had been said of the petitions on the table, he thought it proper to observe, that if these petitions were true, the parties complaining ought obviously to be redressed; while, if they were false, the petitioners themselves were deserving of censure. If, however, any minor point in a petition-should appear to be unfounded or exaggerated, that would be no reason for rejecting the petition altogether, if it were substantially true. But be would not enter
 947 948 l
 Mr. Brougham  observed, that the justice of the remark which he made last night, namely, that some gentlemen were cheering the measure alluded to by the hon. member, without being aware of the character and object of that measure, was fully illustrated by the observation which the House had just heard. For the hon. member professed to think that the Indemnity bill did not propose to screen from any action at law such acts of oppression as the petitioner complained of, because such acts did not take place under the suspension of the Habeas Corpus; whereas this bill extended to all acts done with a view to what was called the preservation of the public peace, or the suppression of conspiracy, since the 26th of January, 1817. Therefore the hon. gentleman misunderstood this bill, and upon that misunderstanding he should expect his vote against it in future.
 Lord Lascelles  said, he wished to take this opportunity of stating a few circumstances connected with a petition which had been presented from an individual upon a previous evening. The name of
 957 * 6d, * 958
 Mr. Calcraft  said, he was happy that he should not have to trouble the House on the subject on which he had given notice of a motion, as a committee would be conceded to him on the Salt Duties He had had a communication on that subject with the chancellor of the exchequer, and a committee of 21 members would be appointed. Had the nomination of the committee rested wholly with him, it might, perhaps have been somewhat differently composed; still, however, he was by no means dissatisfied. He should, therefore, move, "That a Select Committee be appointed, to take into consideration the laws relating to the Salt Duties, and the means of remedying the inconveniences arising therefrom."
 Mr. Calcraft  said, he never could have proposed to affect so large a proportion of the revenue as a million and a half, which the duties on salt produced, without the idea of finding some substitute. In the present circumstances of the country, it was quite necessary that some substitute should be found, before so much of the revenue could be withdrawn.
 Mr. Curwen,  in seconding the motion, congratulated the House on the course adopted by the right hon. gentleman. He believed that the most material benefit would be derived from the labours of the committee, both with respect to the revenue and to the public morals. A revision of the salt duty laws Was the greatest boon that could be bestowed on the people. He believed he should be able to prove, that, between two and three millions a year might be saved by a modification or commutation of the duties.
 Mr. Lambton  observed, that there were  on
 Mr. Lambton  said, that as the indemnity bill was likely to occupy a considerable time, it would be more convenient to discuss the other orders before it came on. His hon. and learned friend had a motion fixed for that evening which ought to be disposed of before this subject should be brought forward.
 Mr. Lockhart  rose to present a Petition, which he said was signed by 14,000 persons, inhabitants of the metropolis and its vicinity, complaining of the monopoly carried on in the brewing of porter by certain brewers in the metropolis. Some of the petitioners, he observed, were magistrates, and a great number tradesmen of respectability, but all of the petitioners were persons interested in the price of porter. They complained that the present price of porter was entirely too high, and that its quality was extremely bad, and this they attributed to the monopoly of certain brewers, who, notwithstanding the fall which had on one occasion, since the war, taken place in the price of malt and hops, the removal of the heavy war malt duty, and the abolition of the property tax, still kept up the price of their porter, alleging, as a reason, that they had a great stock on hand; but though that stock had long since been consumed, they kept up their high prices, and they were still advancing them. Now, when every article used in the manufacture of porter was, with some few exceptions, cheaper than at any former period, for a considerable time, they not only sold their porter at a dearer rate, but made it
 931 932 933
 Mr. Finlay  said, that as he had, on former occasions, offered his sentiments on similar petitions, he did not intend to dwell on that which was now before the House; but this he would say, that the allegation of his innocence, which the pe-
 949
 Mr. Finlay  said, he could speak confidently to two points in the petition; first, that the petitioner was not innocent, as he had represented himself to be; and next, that the magistrates had not acted, improperly. 951
 Mr. Grenfell  said, he should not delay the House long with the few observations he had to make. He could not, however, suffer the measure to pass the second reading with a silent vote. He was one of those who, in the last session of parliament, voted twice for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus. He did so with reference to the report of the first secret committee, from a confidence in the statements it contained, and in the persons by whom it was drawn up. He saw on that committee a noble lord (Milton) the member for Yorkshire, he saw the late Mr. Ponsonby, and others of great constitutional authority, who all gave their support to what the reports set forth. He would confess, however, that when the facts were disclosed upon which the report was founded, they did not appear to him of such a character as he had expected. Still, recollecting what seemed to be the feelings of the metropolis and other parts of the country in 1817; recollecting how the House was assailed with petitions compounded of folly and mischief, which, under the pretence of reform, aimed at nothing less than revolution; recollecting, too, that it was a time of great pressure and public distress, when many of the lower order of mechanics were out of work, and of course desirous of change, he could not repent of the votes he had given. In these circumstances, he owed it to his own consistency to give his support to the bill of Indemnity, and it was accordingly his intention to give it his support in all its stages.
 Sir W. Burroughs  said, that if the House would calmly consider the provisions of the proposed bill, it would feel it impossible to proceed thus hastily, or indeed without obtaining most necessary information. The bill comprehended three new heads, on which inquiry was absolutely essential, and on which the Reports of the Secret committees were wholly silent, although the present bill was supposed to emanate from their recommendation. These were, the seizure of arms by entering the houses of the king's subjects, the seizure of papers, and the seizure of persons found in tumultuous assemblies. A bill demanding indemnity for proceedings
 954
 Mr. Dickinson  observed, that as this matter came so very unexpectedly before the House, and as there was a great deal of private business, which it would be very inconvenient to delay, he hoped the necessity of adjourning the debate till tomorrow would be felt. With that view he should move that the debate be adjourned till to-morrow.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, he differed  toto ccelo 945
 Sir C. Monck  said, that this was a very serious matter. A search for arms and papers was no slight affair. The House should recollect the manner in which such a power was formerly exercised in Ireland and the oppression to which it gave rise. Any information leading to such a search ought to be received with considerable distrust. By the constitution of England it was every man's right, it was even his duty, he was bound to have arms for the protection of himself, his family, and property. They should consider the time at which the search took place—a time of great trouble and public alarm, which rendered arms more necessary for the purpose of defence. Were magistrates and their agents to be the arbitrary judges of the use to which a man intended to convert any arms found in his possession? Were they to presume a bad intention merely from the circumstance of finding them? When the bill was brought to his house he was astonished, on looking over it, to find an indemnity proposed for those who had thought proper to search for and seize arms. Magistrates or any other men had no right to break open a man's house for this purpose, except at the suit of the king, and even then it was under proper restrictions. They should not pass an indemnity bill for matters which had never been under the consideration of the Secret Committees. If the House was determined to agree to the measure without any time being allowed for inquiry, or for a return upon the three new heads alluded to, it signified little to talk any more about the bill. The sooner they got rid of it the better. It was a mere mockery of legislation to proceed in such a manner.
 The Speaker  said, he believed the understanding of the House was, that no one order had precedence of another. The individual who first caught his eye was, he believed, entitled to proceed. But the House would decide whether the hon. member was misled, as to his notion of precedence, or whether he (the Speaker), misconceived the usual course of practice.
 Sir S. Romilly  thought the subject before the House one which required their most serious consideration. It ought not, therefore, to be hurried through in such a manner as not to allow members to form decided opinions upon it. He did not then mean to enter into the subject, as he understood the bill was to be referred to a committee to-morrow. But when the question should be put for the Speaker's leaving the chair for the purpose of going into the committee, he should oppose it, in order to have an opportunity of making known his opinion on the principle of the bill.
 Sir F. Burdett  presented a Petition from James Sellers, late a state prisoner in Reading gaol; setting forth, 962 963 964 965
 Sir Samuel Romilly  rose. He said that as the objections which he had to the bill, were objections to the principle of it, or rather to the different principles upon which the different parts of it proceeded, he ought properly to have stated them upon the second reading, and it was his intention to have done so. It was through deference to the opinion of others, and not from his own judgment; that he had, thin as the attendance was, when the bill was read a second time, deferred his object to the present stage of it. He should, however, now resist the bill proceeding any farther. Whether considered by itself, or as a precedent which would be acted on in future times, it appeared to him to be a measure most objectionable and most dangerous. It was improperly called a mere bill of Indemnity. The object of Indemnity was only to protect individuals from public prosecutions to which they might have exposed themselves, but without interfering with the rights of private individuals; but the object of this bill was to annihilate such rights. Its true description was a bill to take away all legal remedies, from those who had suffered from an illegal and arbitrary exercise of authority, and to punish those who pre-
 966 967 968 969 970 in transitu 971 972 973 * v. * † See the Case of Seizure of Papers. Howell's State Trials, Vol. 19, p. 5. ‡ See Vol. 36, p. 447. § On the 13th of March a petition was presented from Robert Swindells. It will be found in the proceedings of that day. 974 * * † See p. 681. 975 976 977 978 979 980 "That England that was wont to conquer others, Has made a shameful conquest of herself."
 The Solicitor General  hoped, that in considering the question before them, the House would fully consider the circumstances which led to those acts, which the bill was required to protect, and which had been ingeniously kept out of sight by the hon. and learned gentleman, who had in the whole of his argument confined himself to the abstract consideration of a bill of Indemnity, without at all taking into account the peculiar circumstance under which the present bill was called for. It had never been said by his hon. and learned friend (the attorney-general), nor by any other hon. member, that a bill of Indemnity was a necessary consequence of a suspension of the Habeas Corpus act. That was not the argument intended to be used in support of the present measure. The principal question for consideration was, whether the circumstances which took place under the late Suspension were such as to warrant ministers in calling for a bill of Indemnity. He would call upon the House to consider seriously what had taken place in the last year, and after such consideration, he would say that it would
 981 982 983
 Sir S. Romilly  said, across the table, that in such cases the magistrates would have acted according to law.
 The Solicitor General  in continuation remarked, that all then which could be alleged against the bill was, that it was unnecessary. He must repeat, with reference to the case of Swindells, upon which so much had been said, that no man who calmly considered the present bill, could believe that it would embrace that case, and all allusion to it was therefore inapplicable to the question. Swindells, if he had suffered as had been described, would not be shut out from his legal remedy by the operation of the present bill of Indemnity. All arguments founded on the case of that person must therefore fall to the ground. Magistrates were entitled to protection, as they were obliged to act from the spur of the occasion, and ought not to be liable for their efforts to preserve the public peace. 984 985 986 987
 Sir Francis Burdett  declared, that he was by no means surprised at the course pursued by the hon. and learned gentleman who had just sat down, who had told the House that such and such were the circumstances of the case, taking all his assertions for granted, and had thence inferred, that ministers were justified in requiring this bill; but who had cautiously abstained from specifying one distinct fact, or describing one distinct ground, on which the measure could with propriety be founded. The hon. and learned gentleman had, as he conceived, entirely misunderstood the argument of the hon. and learned gentleman by whom he had been preceded, particularly where he represented that hon. and learned gentleman as having brought forward the particular case of Swindells, with a view to show, that the acts to which that case referred, and which were committed during the suspension of the Habeas Corpus, were to be covered by the proposed bill of indemnity, which was in fact only to cover acts of another kind. Such had not
 988 989 Cui bono? 990 991 992
 Mr. Law  said, that while he admitted that the argument of the hon. and learned gentleman who opened the debate was full of ingenuity and ability, he must express his regret that he could see nothing of that kind in the speech made by the hon. baronet. In that speech he could discover only that extraordinary and peculiar zeal which appeared uniformly to animate the hon. baronet's effusions in that House. He begged, however, to observe to the hon. baronet, when he accused ministers of wishing, by the introduction of the Suspension act, to
 993 994 995 996
 Sir W. Burroughs,  adverting to the speech of the solicitor general, said it was the first time he had ever heard from an English lawyer a doctrine so much in violation of our constitution, that, on a warrant issued on oath, the information should remain a secret. By the law of the land, the magistrate was bound to-commit the party, next to return the informations to the proper court, and then to bind the prosecutor over to prosecute. Those were the duties pointed out by the common law, and confirmed by the statute of Philip and Mary. A magistrate had no right to discharge any man from custody: he was to remain in custody till discharged by due course of law. The secretary of state was subject to the same rule. In no ease had either party a right
 997 998
 Sir F. Flood  said, he owed it to himself and his country to make a few observations. He rose, not as belonging to either side of the House, but because he felt it his duty to say what he thought on the measure. The ranks of the other (the opposition) side of the House were broken and the arguments of a great part of that side of the House, militating one against the other, showed most clearly that the party whence they came was nearly dissolved. He did not agree with the arguments of two hon. and learned gentlemen, one, the member for Arundel, for whom he had a very great respect, and another, of whom he likewise had a very good opinion. It was not from obligation or ostentation that he spoke, for he stood where he was unplaced and unpensioned. He wished the House would observe of what nature the bill was before them. It was a bill that had already been twice approved of by large majorities of 190 to 64, and 89 to 24; and yet, though the virtues of this bill were thus approved of, it still met with opposition. If the bill had any defects, they were curable in a committee. It was to be remembered that the bill did not originate in that House—it came to them from the House of Lords; having first been sanctioned by the Lords Spiritual and Temporal of this realm, it came here recommended by immense majorities of the Lords, by the highest authorities of the country. He approved of the conduct of administration, at the head of which was the noble viscount, whom he was proud to call his countryman, who had reconciled all the jarring powers of the continent, and who had been received with cheers by the House when he returned from the continent—he was his countryman, and he was persuaded that the noble lord was the fittest person to have been upon the committee that was the founda-
 999
 Mr. Lamb  said:—It would, Sir, far better accord with my own inclination, if I could fall in with that which appears to be the prevailing inclination of the House; it would undoubtedly be more agreeable to my own feelings, if I could reconcile it to my sense of duty to pass over in silence this question also, as I have already passed over all the questions which have been brought forward in the course of the present session, connected with the transactions of last year, and with those measures upon which I have the misfortune materially to differ with so many of those, whose persons I esteem and whose opinions I respect. But as upon my part I feel it to be utterly impossible, that my hon. friends should suppress their sentiments, or restrain the expression of the indignation which they must naturally and necessarily feel,—indignation in which I should participate with them, if I agreed in the opinion, which is the spring and source of it,—so they, upon their parts, must admit, that it is in some measure due to my own character, and to the humble part which I took in the recommendation and support of those measures, to seize at least one opportunity of declaring the view which, upon deliberate consideration, I still continue to take of those proceedings, as well as my opinion upon the present bill, which is so closely connected with them. 1000 1001 1002 1003 1004 1005 1006 1007 1008 ex-parte 1009
 Mr. Brougham  observed, that he was not altogether unprepared to expect the course which his hon. friend had just pursued. He was afraid that his hon. friend would differ as widely from him, and coincide as completely with the gentlemen opposite upon the whole of those measures, as his frank and candid avowal had now rendered indisputable. Having gone so much the whole way with ministers, his hon. friend might be said to have richly earned that tribute of applause, with which he was so justly greeted by them and by their adherents. It was, however, a matter of much regret to him, and to those with whom his hon. friend was generally in the habit of acting, that a person of his great respectability, that a person of so much weight in that House and in the
 1010 1011 1012 1013 1014 * * 1015 1016 1017 1018 1019 1020 1021 1022
 Mr. Lamb  said, there had been one misrepresentation of his hon. and learned friend, so totally unfounded, that it was impossible for him to suffer it to pass. He had said that he (Mr. L.) had made a charge of foul disloyalty against two millions of people. He was sure he had not meant to say any such thing. He had said, that a certain number of agitators still existed in the manufacturing districts; but he believed, with the reports, that those two millions of persons whore-sided in them wore sound and loyally disposed.
 Mr. Canning  said, that, had he adhered to the doctrine which he had advanced on a former night, that it was unnecessary for ministers to take part in a discussion in which, without any arguments of theirs, the balance turned decidedly in their favour, he might well have abstained from troubling the House or himself on the present occasion; but as the question under
 1023 necessary his 1024 1025 * * 1026 * * 1027 * * caused an hernia to ensue about eight o'clock in the evening at eight o'clock in the evening without irons. 1028 gratis 1029 verbosa et grandis epistola de non apparentibus et non existentibus cadem est ratio;" 1030 1031 anonymi. 1032 animamque in vulnere ponit. beau idéal 1033 "Sodull, so dead in look, so we-begone, Drew Priam's curtain in the dead of night, And  would But found the fire, ere he his tongue." 1034 1035 prevent: 1036 1037 1038 1039 they * 1040
 Mr. Lambton  rose to ask an explanation as to the terms dolt and idiot, so liberally applied by the right hon. gentleman.
 Mr. Canning  said, that the words had dropped from him unintentionally in the heat of the debate, and that he had no design of applying them in their common acceptation.
 Mr. Lambton  supposed so: indeed, it was not of any consequence, except in one sense—and that was, a sort of fear that as the right hon. gentleman had applied the same terms to the dear friends now united with him in office, the use of them might be a prelude to an intimate union between him and the right lion, gentleman [a laugh]. But he rose chiefly to say, that he would pledge himself for the respectability of the person who had given him the information respecting Oliver. He was a person not connected with any plot or conspiracy, but a mercantile gentleman of consideration. If the House would let him, he would pledge his honour to prove all he had asserted, unless the right hon. gentleman should be disposed wantonly to depreciate his (Mr. Lambton's) honour and character, as he had already that night cruelly sported with the disease and agony of an unfortunate petitioner [Hear, hear!]. The right hon. gentleman had made many severe and unfair allusions to the conduct of that individual, in suppressing, as he (Mr. Canning) asserted, the information he could have given with regard to Oliver's; conduct on the 28th of January, and had stigmatized him as a traitor for not having
 1041
 Mr. Croker  said, that in order in any degree to justify the silence of the anonymous individual, it was necessary to believe that he knew Oliver to be in the employment of lord Sidmouth at the time when the transaction alleged was said to have taken place—a fact which it was manifest was impossible. If this anonymous person was a man of respectability, how was it to be accounted for that he had not communicated his information at a time when the House was engaged in an inquiry upon the subject—when addresses were presented on the subject? It was said, he was deterred by fear of the Suspension act. Now he begged it to be observed, that the outrage on the Prince Regent was perpetrated on the 28th January—the Suspension act passed on the 4th of March. During that interval, proclamations were issued, offering large rewards to any person who could give information as to the persons concerned in the outrage. An investigation was going on for six weeks at the public office at Bow-street. Why, then, was information not given when it was so loudly called for? If Oliver, since that time, had done any mischief to his fellow-citizens, the man
 1042
 Sir John Newport  rose amidst such vehement cries of question! that not a word could be heard for some time. The right hon. baronet animadverted on those who were so anxious to pass to the vote and decide without hearing. He expressed some displeasure at the right hon. gentleman for presuming to anticipate his line of argument, and observed, that that right hon. gentleman, in his zeal to prove the truth of one of his assertions, that a very absurd argument might be made on a very grave subject, had himself kindly illustrated it in his own speech. The right hon. baronet strenuously opposed the commitment of the bill.
 Mr. Barnett  said, he could not suffer this bill to go into a committee without entering his protest against the justice of it. He trusted that the House would have honesty and firmness enough to reject so iniquitous a measure.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that though the noble lord had stated two or three reasons why he thought the bill necessary, yet he did not appear to be satisfied in his own mind that it was so. If the noble lord had moved for a
 1046 l l l l l 1047 d. d. d. d. l l l 1048 l l l l
 Lord Castlereagh  agreed with the hon. gentleman who had just set down, that the matter was fully before the House; but he still could not avoid saying one or two words upon it, because he conceived the principle of the present motion was one which involved consequences of very great importance. He wished it to be understood, that it was the wish of his majesty's government to afford relief to every class of the community; but he apprehended that all such petitions as those on which the present motion was founded, ought to be attended to with considerable
 1050 1051
 Colonel Wood  said, that he had presented some petitions on the subject be-fore the House from some of his constituents, and though he conceived that all.
 1053 6s. d. s.
 Mr. Marryat  said, that in Sandwich, the borough which he represented, the distress occasioned by the increased duty on leather was most severely felt. In two parishes, which were only separated by a running stream, the difference of the poor-rates was remarkable. In the one, where several persons engaged in the leather trade resided, the poor-rates amounted to 20 s. s.
 General Hope  rose, to ask a question respecting the clause which regulated the payment of pensions, when
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that the most satisfactory way would be to have the
 1058
 The Attorney-General  having moved the order of the day for going into a committee on this bill,
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that it might be proper to intimate to the hon. and learned gentleman, that if he declined moving his amendments in the committee, they could not be received on the bringing up the report.
 The Solicitor General  said, if he understood the argument of an hon. and learned gentleman last night, it went to establish the fact, that an act of parliament was already in existence, which authorized the seizure of papers by the magistrates in cases similar to the present. Now on the contrary, he himself then contended, and was still prepared to contend, that the act referred to covered no such case.
 Lord Castlereagh  still hoped that the House would not be induced  to
 Mr. C. Calvert  entered into a comparison of the returns of the produce of the tax for the last five years, in order to show that it had considerably fallen off. He supported the motion for the repeal, on the ground that it pressed heavily on the poorer classes, and was not calculated to increase the revenue to the amount stated.
 Mr. Brougham  rose to state, in a few words, the reasons why he should take the sense of the House upon the original motion. Two committees had been already appointed upon the subject of this tax, and from neither had there been any favourable result. He was convinced that the very same effect would follow from the committee if the amendment of the noble lord were carried. It was curious to observe the system upon which gentlemen on the other side proceeded when there was any matter before the House on which a great difference of opinion existed. If there was no evidence before the House,— if they were quite in the dark upon a subject, and wished to get information by means of a committee, —then ministers said, "no committee, do not inquire;" but when there was evidence before the House—when the information derived from former committees was in black and white upon their journals—then the cry was, "a committee— inquire." He saw no necessity for any inquiry in the present case. The thing was quite clear, and no additional evidence was necessary to have it understood. Upon the general question, he should only repeat what he said about six years ago, when he had the honour of a seat in the House, that it was one which interested not only the manufacturers, but the consumers of the article. It was to them that he principally looked at present, and though he would support the motion of his noble friend, even on the grounds on which he had put it, yet he gave his vote on the present occasion principally with reference to the con-
 1052
 General Gascoyne  observed, that in the former committees, there was such a division and jarring of interests on the subject of the leather trade, that no efficient result had been come to, and he was certain it would be the same, if a committee were now agreed to. From the opinions of all the petitioners it was clear, that the tax, as it now stood, was a great grievance: for it would be idle for any man to pretend to know, whether a tax pressed heavily or not, better than the individual who felt such pressure. He thought, therefore, it ought to be repealed, and he was certain, that the ingenuity
 1054
 Mr. Calcraft  agreed with the suggestion of the noble lord. He was glad to find that the fruits of the committee were coming forth; and from what he had heard of the intended bills, he had great hopes that some very beneficial change would be effected in the present system.
 Mr. Curwen  said, that no one hated the property tax more than he did; yet, if he were certain of that tax being the consequence of his vote, still he would support the motion before them. He thought the chancellor of the exchequer had not at all made out the propriety of the tax on leather. He had omitted to stale, that the year before last there was a decrease on leather to the amount of 90,000 l 1049
 Mr. Benson  said, that the petitions were presented to the House, not because a circular had been sent round, but because the manufacturers of leather felt the pressure of the heavy taxes to which they were liable. He should object to a committee being appointed, as he knew that if such were to be the case, it would sit all the session without coming to a conclusion. When the additional duty was imposed it was considered as a war tax, and that it would be removed on the return of peace. But now that we were at peace the House were told that the tax was still necessary. If the tax were repealed, he was convinced the consumption would be very considerably increased, and in the end the revenue would thereby be materially increased. He would ask the right hon. gentleman, whether 170,000 l
 Lord Compton  said, that this tax was one which affected every class of society. He trusted, therefore, the House would see the necessity of removing the evil which was so generally complained of. The chancellor of the exchequer had said, that the number of bankruptcies in the leather trade was not occasioned by the additional tax; but it was clear that there was a general decline in the trade, and that, from whatever cause it proceeded, was in itself an argument in favour of repeal. The argument urged by the right hon. gentleman with respect to the use of machinery, was rather against than for the tax; for if with the increase of machinery, which was generally a proof of the increase of trade, it appeared that the trade still declined, it was clear that there should be something done to relieve it. As to the decline in the oil dressed leather, it arose from a quite different cause. The oil dressed leather was principally consumed by the government, and the demand for it was necessarily diminished since the war. The observation of the right hon. gentleman with respect to the property tax should not alter the vote which he intended to give; for though his opinion of that tax was unchanged, yet he would rather see some direct tax than that species of tax which was so injurious to a very large portion of the people.
 Mr. Lushington  admitted, that some distress did exist in the trade, but he thought it arose from other causes than those which had been stated. The conclusion of the war had caused a stagnation in the trade, but that was now nearly at an end, and though the number of persons engaged in the trade was not as great as before, yet that was not a proof that the business had declined; for notwithstanding the decrease of the numbers, the revenue had increased in a considerable degree. The leather trade was not unanimous in desiring the repeal. He had himself received a deputation from two branches of it, who had stated, that the drawback of two pence upon leather exported more than counterbalanced the additional duty of three halfpence. As the drawback would fall along with the additional duty, the export trade would suffer, and the effect would be, to put money in the pockets of the tanners. In the present state of the revenue, should one tax be repealed, another must be imposed. It appeared to him, that every
 1055
 Sir W. Burroughs  felt much obliged for the explanation just afforded by the hon. and learned gentleman, since he at last understood more distinctly the objects of the present bill. Indemnity was to be extended, for the first time, to such magistrates as had thought proper most illegally to seize upon the papers of individuals who happened to have assembled in a manner which was deemed to be unauthorized. If such were the purview of the bill, then certainly his motion was more necessary than ever.
 Sir W. Burroughs  said, he was not aware of that, but he should hope that, as the night was so far advanced, the noble lord would not press going into a committee, particularly as he had communicated with several gentlemen who had now left the House, and had told them that an amendment would be moved on bringing up the report.
 Sir W. Burroughs  gave notice, that he should move an amendment on bringing up the report, for the purpose of preventing Indemnity being extended to magistrates or others who may have seized the papers of persons whose only offence was being present at tumultuous assemblies.
 Sir W. Burroughs  said, he was given to understand that the law-officers of the Crown were willing to accede to the amendments he had in view. His principal object was, to provide, that no indemnity should be given by the present bill, in the
 1059
 Mr. Sturges Bourne  rose to make his promised motion for leave to bring in two bills, one for the Regulation of Parish Vestries, and the other for the Amendment of the Laws for the Relief of the Poor. He observed, that the Committee on the Poor Laws having already presented their report, in which they had gone very fully into the consideration of the evils of the present system, and having pointed out the most likely means of redressing them, it would not be necessary for him to detain the House at any length. The object of his first bill, among minor regulations, would be to give additional influence to persons in parish vestries in proportion to their contribution to the poor-rates. This proposition was not new to the House, and he was not aware that any objection had been made to it; and as far as he could learn from communications with all parts of the country it was a provision that would be very generally acceptable. The first object of his second bill would be a provision to enable parishes of considerable extent to appoint select vestries for the management of their concerns; the orders of which should not be over-ruled by any single magistrate, but only by two or more. The next object would be a provision qualifying persons having considerable property in the parish, though resident at a snort distance out of it, to become overseers. Another object would be to enable parishes to appoint an assistant overseer, with a salary. The next provision was one of considerable import-
 1056 d. 1057
 The Speaker  said, that the proceeding which the hon. and learned baronet mentioned would be very inconsistent with the uniform practice of the House. If the House went into a committee on a bill, and no amendment was made, the chairman communicated that fact to the Speaker, when he resumed the chair, and it was then moved that the bill should be read a third time, and the time for the third reading was named. It was obvious, then, that if no amendment should be made in the bill now before them, there could be no report.
 Sir J. Newport  thought it proper to apprise the committee of two amendments which he intended to move on the third reading. The first went to exclude from indemnity any person who, under the Suspension act, or during the time to which the indemnity extended, had committed any act of undue rigour, or malignant harshness. It was said that the bill did not contemplate the protection of persons who exercised their powers with excessive cruelty, but it was worded so as to cover them. The amendment which he proposed, therefore, went to correct its language, to render its provisions more definite, and to prevent it from being held up as a shield to individuals who, from their conduct, were not entitled to its protection. He had given notice of his intended amendment, that no gentleman might be taken by surprise. The other amendment which he meant to propose would consist in a clause to be added to
 1060
 Sir T. Acland  declared, he had come down to the House with the intention of supporting the motion, but that what he had heard determined him to vote for referring the petitions to a committee.
 Lord Althorp  rose, pursuant to notice, for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to a most important branch of British manufacture—he meant the Leather trade. The subject having been fully before them last session, he felt it less necessary to enter much at large on the present occasion; he would therefore confine himself to the object he had immediately in view, namely, the extraordinary grievance which that trade sustained by the additional duties imposed on it, and the necessity of repealing those duties. In proposing the motion he had in view, he felt it necessary to point out to the House the comparative state of the leather trade, before and since those additional duties were imposed. In doing so, he was sure he should have the concurrence of the honourable members on the oilier side of the House. There might be some difference of opinion as to the state of depression in which the leather trade was known to be at present, compared with former periods. It might be argued, that that trade was not in a state of depression, and therefore there was no occasion to take off the additional tax. But if he showed that since the additional tax in 1812, the leather trade was depressed from the flourishing state in which it was previously, and that such depression was caused by the tax, he trusted he should have the support of every member who knew the value of that manufacture. The numerous petitions which had been presented from all parts of the country, were in themselves a proof that the additional duties were severely felt by that trade. It might be said, that
 1044 1045 l
 Sir G. Clarice , seeing a right hon. gentleman in his place, was desirous of putting a question to him, which, he believed, it would be in his power to answer. It would be recollected, that, two years ago, he had introduced a bill to establish the uniformity of weights and measures, which passed that House, but was lost in the House of Peers. A commission, it was then said, would be issued to the royal society, to determine what standard of weights and measures should be adopted. He had last session asked, whether that commission had issued, and if so, what steps had been taken under it? He was informed by the chancellor of the exchequer, that it had not then issued, but that it would in a very short time. He now understood that it had not yet been made out. He therefore Wished to know, what circumstance had occurred to prevent it, and whether it was probable that any commission would speedily be issued? If answered in the negative, he should move for an address to the Prince Regent, praying that a commission should issue immediately after the recess, since he could not bring in a bill on the subject, with any chance of success, till that previous step had been taken.
 The Attorney General  having moved, "That the bill be now read a third time,"
 Sir J. Newport  rose to propose the amendments, of which he had given notice. The first referred to a principle, which was recognized in the preamble of the bill, but for which there was no corresponding provision in the bill itself. In. the preamble it was recited as follows:—"Whereas some of the said acts done may not have been strictly justifiable in law, but being done for the preservation of the public peace and safety, it is fit that the persons doing the same should be saved harmless in respect thereof." To the principle of this passage he was quite ready to assent: for it was but just that an act done for the public safety, should be entitled to indemnity. But then, upon, whom, in equity, should the loss, occasioned by that indemnity, fall? Whether should the individual, who had unjustly suffered, be condemned still more to sut-
 1081 l 1082 l 1083
 The Speaker  observed, that he felt some difficult)' on the question. He was not aware of any precedent which would au-
 1084
 Sir R. Heron  said, that he could not allow that last opportunity to pass, without avowing his decided opposition to this most unjustifiable bill, and to every measure connected with it. He had too sincere a veneration for the constitution of his country—a constitution that had carried the nation through the most stormy periods of its history, not to feel satisfied that the laws were sufficiently strong to preserve it and the people who lived under it. What security had the people of England for the future against frequent invasions of their personal freedom? The same pretext that was now made subservient to the designs of the ministers would always present themselves. Such a case of justification as they made out was at all limes in their power, because there never was, and probably never would be, a period in which men of profligate morals and ruined fortunes would not be found engaged in some desperate projects against the public tranquillity. When his majesty's ministers had determined on manifesting their displeasure against the country, why had they not the manliness to go at once to the extent of their security? Why divide their system and do half by anticipation and half by retrospection When the Suspension act was opposed on the ground of possible abuse, the argument was, that the aggrieved would have their remedy. When the abuse was alleged in petitions on the table, the answer was—a bill of indemnity. It was thus that ministers kept their solemn pledges. It was by expedients such as these that the people were to be mocked,
 1085
 Sir John Newport  rose, to move, as an amendment, the addition of certain words to the first enacting clause of the bill. His object was to render it more explicit, and to cany into more certain effect the principle which its authors and supporters professed to have in view. They had declared, that it was not their wish or intention to extend indemnity to cases of unnecessary rigour or severity. If they were sincere in this declaration, he did not think it possible that they could object to the amendment which he was about to submit. Such an amendment appeared to him to be necessary, in consequence of the vague and general language in which the clause was expressed, It was desirable that no doubt whatever should exist with regard to the cases to which the indemnity would apply; and that it should be distinctly understood, that it did not refer to cases of imprisonment, longer or more severe than was required by the purposes of the Suspension act. With this view, he should move for leave to bring up a clause, providing that the indemnity granted by the bill was not to be construed as extending to those who had exerciscd any unnecessary cruelty or severity in the apprehension or detension of persons under the act for suspending the Habeas Corpus.
 The Attorney General  rose for the purpose of objecting to the bringing up the
 1086
 Mr. P. Moore  considered the bill, in its present shape, as indemnifying ever}' kind of enormity, and as excluding redress for every kind of private injury. The system of employing and protecting, by such means the race of spies and informers was a practice unknown to the old constitutional government of the country. He had opposed all the measures that had been proposed since the year 1792, by means of which a bastard constitution had been formed unknown to the legitimate constitution of England, and under which that venerable fabric could no longer be discovered. He should certainly vote for the clause proposed by his right hon. friend.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that he would apply the case of the petitioner Ogden to the clause now proposed by his right hon. friend. He was aware that it had already called forth the derision of a right hon. gentleman; but when he considered the age of that man, seventy-four years, and the infirmities under which he laboured, he could not help thinking, that to indulge in derision excited by such causes was not a very enviable display. He put the man's guilt or innocence wholly out of the present question. He did not care whether the infirmity of the man had existed previously to his arrest, or was the consequence of his ill treatment; let
 1087
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that with respect to the proposed clause, two questions came to be considered. First, if it were necessary or not; and next, what would be its effect should that necessity not be made out? The law had been clearly laid down by his hon. and learned friend, the attorney-general, who had shown that the clause was unnecessary; and if not necessary it would have a tendency to raise doubts in other cases, as the law did not presume abuse in legal enactments. No bill of indemnity could sanction cruelty and oppression, or be pleaded in justification of it. The bill of indemnity might indeed be pleaded, but the judge would direct the jury to ascertain the fact if any, and what kind of cruelty had been used; and every judge would tell the jury that the act of indemnity was extrajudicial. In the case of Ogden, the allegation of his having been put in irons had been denied, and upon that statement, a jury, should the case be brought before them, would have to decide, as also how far the confinement was justifiable. Nothing could
 1088
 Mr. J. H. Smyth  was not satisfied with the explanation of the noble lord, and thought the object and principle of the bill would be made clearer and less disputable by the adoption of the clause. The words of the bill were at present extremely general, and applied the indemnity to "all acts or proceedings" under the Suspension act.
 Mr. Bathursl  observed, that in 1801 the same point had been mooted, but had been determined. The attorney-general of that day, who was at present at the head of the court in which any actions for redress would be brought, had expressly declared his opinion, that the bill of Indemnity would not protect acts of unnecessary rigour. Honourable gentlemen had chosen to let the bill pass through the committee without stating their objections; and now they wanted to make it a totally new measure. Before he sat down he wished to say a few words respecting a right hon. friend of his, who had just left the House (Mr. Canning), who had been censured for treating with levity a subject of a serious nature. But what were the circumstances to which his right hon. friend had adverted? One, that the individual in question had had for twenty years, the disorder which it was said had been brought on by the duress he had sustained; the other, that by being brought to London, he was placed within the reach of abler professional assistance than he could receive in the country, and that by means of that assistance he had returned home totally cured, and as he himself expressed it "a new man." No doubt could exist that the disease had not been brought on in consequence of Ogden's confinement.
 Mr. Lyttelton  observed, that the recent allusions in the speech of a right hon. gentleman to the case of the petitioner, Ogden, violated every rule of decency and public decorum. Not to dwell, however, on so disgusting a subject, he thought this question an extremely fair test of the sincerity of those who introduced the mea-
 1089 1090
 Lord Castlereagh  said, he had merely stated, that the case alluded to had been, denied; but if the person felt himself aggrieved, he was not precluded by the bill from proving it before a jury.
 Mr. Lyttelton  believed the noble lord was sincere in what he said; but opinions delivered in that House would not settle the law.
 Lord Castlercagh  said, the question of cruelty could only be decided by a jury. The bill did not take away the opportunity of such a decision.
 Sir S. Romilly  said, he was surprised to hear the line of argument which had been pursued by gentlemen on the other side. Was there any thing in this case that could admit of any doubt? Were there any technical words in this clause which a lawyer could understand better than any other man? Here were plain words which every man could comprehend. This act said, that all actions brought for or on account of any act, matter, or thing, should be discharged and made void; and that every person by whom any such act, matter, or thing should have been done, should be freed, acquitted, discharged, and indemnified. Now, they were told, that this act did not mean what it said. It was stated, that it went only to all necessary acts. But; if this was the intention of the gentlemen who framed it, why did they not say so? The bill declared, that all acts whatever should be indemnified. What, then, was to become of the cases of those who had been treated with improper severity and cruelty? The pe-
 1091 Nisi Prius,
 The Solicitor General  said, that his
 1092
 Mr. Brougham  thought, that when the House saw there was as complete a difference of opinion between the two hon. and learned gentlemen on the construction of the clause in question, as there was between aye and no — when they heard his hon. and learned friend say, that he conscientiously entertained no doubt that the legal construction of the clause was in one way, and the solicitor-general, backed by the attorney-general, that he conscientiously entertained no doubt that it was in another, they would scarcely leave the words of it in so vague and undefined a form. What was the hon. and learned solicitor - general's argument? That there could be no difference of opinion on the clause. But there actually was a difference of opinion on it. And why not, then, insert the explanatory word recommended by his hon. and learned friend? The apprehension of tautology and surplusage!. How long had acts of parliament been so concise in their construction? When had brevity become the style of the statutes? Was it on the introduction of the present bill
 1093 1094
 Mr. Wynn  thought that a clause, such as that proposed by the right hon. baronet, might throw a doubt on other acts of the same description, though not on this. There could, however, be no inconvenience in inserting the word "necessary." It was the more requisite, because there was not one decision on acts of this nature. In the case of a justice of peace who had gone beyond his authority, and had done unnecessary acts, he would ask, if it had ever been held, that he was not as much entitled to notice of action, as one who was proceeded against after having acted properly? If so, the word "necessary" was by no means superfluous in the present case.
 Sir John Newport  then withdrew his amendment.
 Sir W. Burroughs , after reminding the House that the enacting clause proposed an indemnity for any acts whatever done under the suspension, proposed a clause
 1095 malo animo,
 The Attorney-General  contended, that this clause would defeat the whole object of the bill. Upon what principle was the bill founded? It was founded on the presumption, that the acts for which indemnity was provided, were done for the public safety, and that the persons to be indemnified had acted honestly, fairly, and  bona fide,
 Sir W. Burroughs  rose to propose as an amendment, that, after that part of the preamble, "And whereas, in case the acts and proceedings of the several persons concerned or employed in such apprehending, committing, imprisoning, and detaining in custody, and dispersing, and seizing, and searching, as aforesaid, should be called in question, it may be impossible for them to justify or defend the same," the words immediately following be left out—"without an open disclosure of the information given, and the means by which the said traitorous designs and unlawful purposes were discovered; and it is necessary, for the safety and protection
 1096
 Sir F. Flood  rose, amidst loud cries of question! The bill, in all its parts, he was pre-pared to support. It had obtained, he said, the test of the House of Lords—[Order, order!]—by a great majority; and the discontented on the other side of the House, might be very well satisfied with the great majorities that voted for it in every stage. Nothing, however, would content them but long declamatory speeches,  ad captandum valgus; 1097
 The Attorney-General  said, that the object of the bill was, to prevent the necessity of laying the evidence on which magistrates or others acted, before a jury; and yet this clause made the public pay damages and costs. Damages could only be given after a discussion of all the facts and circum-stances before a jury; because it would not be contended, that any damages which any body could guess at, should be paid out of the public coffers of the state. They could not adopt this clause without making the preamble a complete collection of unintelligible nonsense.
 Sir John Newport  said, that he wished so to alter the preamble as that the House should afterwards be obliged to
 1098
 Mr. W. Smith  thought that the bill, as proposed, had in view, not the safety of the state, but the security of a few individuals. It acted only for one party, but that party which he maintained was most injured, were by the present bill deprived of all means of redress. It went upon the unconstitutional principle, that all those who were arrested were guilty, whereas, the presumption of law was that they were innocent until it was otherwise proved. This bill shut every door of redress on those who had suffered in their persons or characters. He conceived an opportunity should be afforded to them to prove their innocence, and that the expenses incurred by the parties against whom actions might be brought, should be borne by the public.
 Sir W Burroughs  said, that the object of the bill was not only to protect the secretary of state, the privy council, and the magistrates, but all persons who were in any way concerned in the late arrests, imprisonments, and searching of houses. This was most objectionable, because the same protection which might be deemed necessary for magistrates and others, ought not to be extended to those persons who, without any warrant or authority, entered the houses of individuals to search for papers. He therefore should move as an amendment to the preamble, that after the words "all proceedings whatsoever against," the words "any person or persons" should be omitted, for the purpose of inserting the following: "his majesty's secretary of state, the members of the privy council, all magistrates, peace officers, and constables." By this means, the persons engaged in the suppression of riots and arrest of persons would be sufficiently protected by the bill, and it would not be extended to those whom the laws ought not to protect.
 The Attorney General  observed, that as far as the searching houses for papers, & c. was concerned, the bill was meant only to protect those who searched the houses of persons who were in custody or
 1099
 The Attorney General  objected to this amendment as superfluous. By the proper interpretation of the bill, and of every statute similarly worded, the protection afforded was understood only to extend to such acts as were necessary for accomplishing the objects in view. A magistrate was supposed to commit no act of rigour which was not called for in execution of the duty imposed upon him. To adopt the amendment, therefore, would be introducing useless words; but this would not be the only evil. The adoption of the amendment would excite doubts as to the enactment of other statutes where similar words were omitted. All laws regarding the conduct of magistrates supposed them to be liable to damages for excess of rigour in executing their duty: but from the first to the last statute in the statute book, the words "acts which may be necessary," had not been introduced.
 Mr. Tierney  said, that the hon. and learned gentleman, who opposed the amendment on the common principles of law, ought to have remembered that the present bill was a violation of all law, and, therefore, that it ought not to be tried by such a test. He was of opinion, that the language of the bill should be rendered as precise, and as guarded as possible, and he put it to the House, whether he was asking too much when he requested them not to object to the insertion of three or four words, not limiting the indemnity claimed by ministers, but defining the extent to which the law of the country had been set at nought?
 Mr. Lockhart  was against any alteration in the bill. As it now stood it did not preclude any individual from the sort of remedy in a court of justice which he could expect to have, if the words proposed were introduced.
 Mr. Wynn  had no objection to the
 1100
 Mr. Brougham  said, he did not wish to provoke any discussion in the present stage of the measure, but he was anxious to protest on his own part, and on the part of his hon. friends, against its being imagined that they had less objection to the passing of the bill, either in consequence of the arguments which were urged in support of it, or from the circumstance of their attempting to qualify it by amendments. He and they were as desirous at that moment as before to avow their hostility to the detestable principle upon which the whole bill was founded.
 Mr. Tierney  said, it was his intention, on a former evening, to have delivered his opinions on the subject; but he had abandoned that intention from a conviction that it was quite unnecessary after the speeches of his hon. and learned friend who had just quitted his place (sir S. Romilly), and his hon. and learned friend who had just sat down. He should avail himself, however, of the present opportunity to declare, that he believed this to be one of the most detestable measures that ever was introduced into parliament.
 Mr. Wynn  was of opinion that the measure was a necessary one.
 Mr.Peter Moore  entered his protest against a bill so fraught with injustice.
 Mr. Bathurst  stated, that he could not give the hon. member the information requested, but he would inquire into the subject.
 Mr. Calvert  said, that it was with regret that he trespassed upon the time of the House, but he felt it necessary for the purpose of proving to the conviction of the House, that the petition of Mr. Barber Beaumont was a most scandalous petition. The attempt to procure signatures was not confined to one place, but every part of the town was resorted to. He had passed by one of the stations, and he had there seen boys and persons of all descriptions setting down their names. He hoped that the few words which he should have to submit to the House would carry weight with them. Certain charges had been made against the brewers, and among them that of having created a monopoly of an essential article, of mixing deleterious ingredients with it, and of advancing the price at their caprice, and without any justifiable grounds. With regard to the monopoly, which was stated to be confined to 11 houses, although the porter-brewers in London were considerably more numerous, it was only necessary to look to the evidence given before the police committee. Three gentlemen were there examined, one of them was the owner of only one-eighth of the public-houses which he served, and another of one-seventh. That surely would not be a monopoly; for looking to the total number, it was a most ridiculous and absurd charge, and he should say no more upon it. He should have a word or two to offer, however, respecting the capricious wantonness of advancing the price, and he should produce the statement of the person he had alluded to, Mr. Barber Beaumont. The first charge was, that in the year 1802, the price was advanced without any reason whatever. He rather thought, that for that rise, there existed good grounds at the time. These were, that the right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer summoned the brewers, and told them, that he should increase the several duties 3 s. d. s. d. 1076 s. s. s. d. s. 6d. s. 6d. s. s. d. s. 1077 1078
 Mr. C Calvert  rose. He said that he was prepared to enter into the petition the day on which it was presented, and to refute every charge which had been brought forward against the brewers. He came down to the House on the succeeding evening, when the hon. gentleman who presented the petition did not arrive in his place till other public business had prevented the discussion. He had no intention to go into the subject at any length, provided any gentleman felt inclined to move the appointment of a committee, to which the petition should be referred. The petition contained some very grave charges, which were well worthy the attention of the House, and more particularly the charge of the brewers being in the systematic habit of putting poisonous ingredients into the beverage which they caused to be retailed to the public. Such a charge was not a light one; but it was one which could be confuted with very little trouble.
 1073
 Mr. Lockhart  said, he had no intention to move for a committee. He had only performed his duty in presenting the petition. He had, however, no objection to a committee, if the hon. gentleman who had mentioned it on a former evening, should move it.
 Mr. Lockhart  observed, that if this had been the petition of the individual named, with whom he had no sort of acquaintance, he might have declined it; but he had presented the petition of 14,000 persons. It was not the petition of one particular individual, but of that individual, and 14,000others, and although the petition might have been in part signed by those who must be totally ignorant of what they were doing, yet there must be part of the petitioners who were qualified to judge of the price of the article and its flavour, although they might not be aware of the details which the hon. member had entered into. With respect to going about
 1079
 Mr. Peter Moore  said, he understood, when the hon. and learned gentleman presented the petition, that he had no ulterior object in view—that he did not mean to call for inquiry. But, be that as it might, there was one point they ought to look to before they received such a petition. They ought to consider in what situation the framer of these charges would stand, if he did not prove his allegations, and they ought to have something like security, that he should prove them. If he had gone privately to work, instead of proceeding by public petition, he would have stood a chance of being placed in the pillory, for some of the allegations he had been pleased to make; and which, Mr. Moore said, he believed, were utterly unfounded; for he had himself, some years ago, a good deal of practical experience on the subject. He did not conceive that any case had been made out for going into the committee, but if the House did go into one, he hoped it would be the means of exposing the malicious views of the person who had first agitated the question, and of showing the purpose it was intended to answer. He was not swayed by the number of signatures, because he knew how they had been obtained. Application had been made to himself, and he
 1075
 Mr. W Smith  said, he had examined the subject of the petition clause by clause, and had likewise closely observed the evidence upon the subject as detailed in the voluminous reports of the police committee. His advice to his hon. friends upon the subject was, that if the hon. gentleman who presented the petition should move for a committee, it would not become them to refuse it; but he thought that on their part, such a proceeding was wholly unnecessary. Any gentleman in the House might put together the different parts of the evidence before the House, and then see in what manner they contradicted or supported each other. It appeared that the petition complained of three things; namely, the price, the monopoly, and the adulteration of one of the first necessaries of life. In the question of monopoly the petitioners themselves furnished the best answer, for they did not make any charge of agreement among the brewers as to price. Now, there could be no monopoly unless both price and quality were taken together. There was no sort of agreement as to the quality of the beer sold at a certain price, for every one of the eleven brewers charged with the monopoly, might make their beer of any quality they pleased; consequently, there was no monopoly. Now, with respect to the great article of adulteration, it would be absurd to imagine for a single moment, that such could be the case, for every one knew, that the laws against adulteration were severe in the highest degree. It could never be worth the while of any brewers to run the risk of adulteration when the penalties were considered, to which they would necessarily be subject. In the next place, as to the use of deleterious ingredients, it would not bear a question to be raised; for in the large breweries it would absolutely require such publicity as not only to be open to
 1074
 Sir S. Romilly  rose to present a Petition from Robert Swindells, of Macclesfield, in the county of Chester, whose case he had adverted to in the course of his observations on the Indemnity bill. * * 1070 1071 l 1072
 Lord Castlereagh  did not rise for the purpose of arguing the question which had before been decided, upon the propriety of keeping up the present number of lords of the Admiralty. On the occasion which had been referred to, the question had been fully looked at in every point of view. The board was now as it had existed for more than a century past, and fewer commissioners, when it was considered that some were wanted at the out ports, it did not appear to him would be sufficient. AH the suggestions of the committee of finance had been attended to. The hon. baronet had very pleasantly stated so much of the argument that had been used in the former debate on the Admiralty lords, as served his purpose. He had done it with so much fancy, that feeling he could not follow in the same vein, he would abstain altogether from the attempt.
 Mr. Bankes  said, he could so far con firm the statement of his noble friend as to state that the committee of finance had great reason to be satisfied with the economy introduced into various departments, and with the attention paid to all the suggestions they bad thought it their
 1107 1108
 Mr. Bankes  protested against the utter irregularity of the present proposition. Had the applicant the smallest claim on parliament—which he denied—it was quite irregular, in a committee of supply, to propose any vote except in the form of a grant to his majesty; and another irregularity was, that it was totally inconsistent with the practice of the House, for a member to rise up in a committee of supply, and propose a grant for the benefit of an individual, even in the form of a grant for the service of the Crown, unless the consent of the Crown to such a proposition had been previously signified. Had his right hon. friend, the chancellor of the exchequer, received any application on the subject? and if so, had he intimated the consent off the Crown? Without such an intimation, the motion of the hon. gentleman—even if its form were not in other respects incorrect—would be perfectly unconstitutional. Nor was this practice in the least calculated to give an undue influence to the Crown. It had been the established practice, from the time of queen Anne, that no application to parliament for a grant of public money should be made without the consent of the Crown. It was a prudent guard which the House had set up against its own prodigality and inconsiderateness. If once it were allowed to any honourable gentleman to stand up and propose any grant to which a feeling of compassion, or perhaps of levity, might prompt him, the profusion and waste, of which they were accustomed to complain on the part of the Crown, would soon be out-done tenfold by the exhibition of the same qualities in that House On the irregularity of the proceeding alone, therefore, without any inquiry into the merits of the case—which he was nevertheless quite prepared to dispute—he would oppose the motion  in limine.
 The Chairman  of the Committee (Mr. Brogden) apologized for an omission of duty. The consent of the Crown had been signified to the proposition, but he had omitted to communicate it to the committee.
 Mr. Bankes  observed, that that did not remove his objection to the irregularity of the form in which the hon. gentleman had brought forward his motion.
 The Chairman  remarked, that that might he rectified by moving for the sum in the form of a grant to his majesty.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the present application was unquestionably sanctioned by the report of the committee four years ago, and that he had signified the consent of the Crown to the introduction of the subject to the consideration of the House.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  presented a petition from Thomas Preston, late a prisoner in the Tower. The petitioner stated himself to have been taken up on the 4th of December, 1816, and carried before Matthew Wood, esq. then lord mayor of London, by whom he was dismissed, on his proving, to the satisfaction of the said M. Wood, esq. that the charges preferred against him were groundless. He was afterwards again taken before the same lord mayor, and was committed to prison, where he remained five days, cut off from communication with his friends. While thus confined, Castles, a person. of universal notoriety, went to his residence, No. 9, Greystoke-place, where he falsely represented himself to petitioner's daughter to have been authorized by the petitioner to dispose of his furniture, which
 1102
 Mr. Wynn  was of opinion, that it was highly desirable the report made by the committee four years ago should be reprinted, and in the hands of members, in order to make them adequate judges of the subject, before they were called upon to decide on it. He had a strong objection to the motion. Nor did it appear to him that there was any blunder in the act. The high-bailiff having brought his action against sir Francis Burdett, for his portion of the expense of the hustings, &c., a court of law had decided, that a man was not a candidate, who had not offered his services to the electors; and that he was not liable to pay his share of the expenses, unless he had rendered himself a party to the proceedings. Were it otherwise, what intolerable injustice might be inflicted on any man, by exposing him to the payment of some hundreds of pounds, in consequence of his being proposed to represent Westminster without his concurence. If such a proposition as the present were acceded to, it would be advisable to pass a general bill, to declare how such expenses should henceforward be borne; otherwise parliament would unquestionably be called upon to pay all future charges of a similar nature. The sum also appeared to him to be extravagant. He could hardly conceive how so large a sum as 800 l
 Mr. Wynn  said, that if the demand was confined to the election of 1812, it ought to be observed, that no poll had taken place at that time; and he could not conceive how an expense of 800 l
 Mr. Wynn  said, that the mistake was on the part of the high bailiff, in not bringing his action for the whole of the expenses against lord Cochrane, who was a candidate, and from whom he had obtained only a moiety.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that there were so many cases in which the operation of an act of parliament threw a loss on individuals, that it required very particular words to distinguish this case. The charge had been thrown on the high bailiff in a way parliament did not intend. The act on the subject was about to expire, and would probably be repealed or amended. At all events, this ought not to be drawn into precedent; but it was of so peculiar a nature, that upon the whole, he did not think it proper to withhold his assent from the proposition.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  having moved the order of the day for taking into consideration that part of the Lords Commissioners' speech, which related to the building of Churches,
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the subject to which he was about to call the attention of the House was not connected with that alluded to by the. right hon. gentleman, in as much as an economical arrangement for the building and enlarging of churches throughout the kingdom, was very different from the erection of a monumental church upon a great scale of ornamental architecture. At the same time, he was far from being disinclined to coincide with the view of the right hon. gentleman on this subject; for he thought that if the right hon. gentleman would communicate with him on. the subject, it would be found that they did not disagree. His own opinion was that nothing could be more fit than that national monuments should be rendered applicable to purposes of general utility.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  observed, that he believed no communication from the throne had ever been expected with greater anxiety, or received with more satisfaction by the public, than that which the lords commissioners had made, by the command of the Prince Regent, at the opening of the present session. For more than a century, the want of accommodation for public worship had been felt by the members of the established church as a most serious evil; and an attempt had been made so long ago by parliament to remedy it, so far as respected the metropolis, and its immediate vicinity. This attempt, however, though attended with considerable expense, had been very imperfect in its execution, only eleven churches having been built, out of fifty which it was proposed to erect. Since that time no farther steps had been taken by public authority, though the evil had been perpetually increasing with the growing population of the country, which was now probably little less than double what it had been when the attempt, to which he had alluded, was made; and still more from its concentration in the metropolis, and the large commercial and manufacturing towns. Nothing, in fact, could
 * 1118 1119 1120 1121 1122 1123 1124 1125 free seals 1126 1127
 General Thornton  said, the proposed measure had his full approbation. He thought it would be productive of the greatest advantages. He wished that in' place of any other monument, a church might be erected in memory of the victory at Waterloo.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the present calculations induced a
 1130
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the increased number of parishes and churches would of course increase the number of incumbents.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, it was not intended to divide the church service, but to have the whole service oftener performed.
 Sir W. Scott  said, he had the strongest objections to this bill, and in particular to the clauses which went to disturb the settled system of law, as it had been laid down by chief baron Comyns, and other eminent authorities. The right hon. and learned gentleman then explained the policy of the 13th of Elizabeth, on the subject of what were called real compositions on tithes, and also on the act of Richard 2nd, relative to moduses, and showed the distinction between each. It was, he said, the object of the hon. gentleman's bill to shut out the church from tithes, where they were not claimed within living memory. He could not agree to such a proposition as this, for it would at once set aside the necessity of producing that documentary evidence, which ought to be adduced on such an occasion by the landed proprietor. This evidence was surely to be procured, as all tithe compositions were recorded in the bishop's registry. There was, then, no necessity for setting
 1132
 Sir Samuel Romilly  said, he approved of the principle of the bill, though, perhaps, some of the clauses in it might be capable of improvement. Nothing could be more unjust than to represent the bill as an invasion of property, or as calculated to promote litigation. Its object was, and its effects would be, to secure property, and prevent litigation. It would secure property on the safest and most widely admitted principle, that of length of possession. He deprecated, as much as any man could, any attack on the property of tithes; they were as much property as any other species of possession; and the clamour against them as being mischievous was, as far as it impugned such property wholly unwarrantable purchaser might as well say at once, that because he had paid for nine tenths he had a right to the whole. But this bill would settle property, and secure claims. It night have been originally inconvenient that real compositions should be made; but the statute of Elizabeth, passed to prevent, could only be prospective; and yet the courts of justice had done on this head, what the legislature could not do, by insisting on the production of he deed itself. The statute of Elizabeth never
 1133 1134
 Mr. Wetherell  said, he was sorry to differ from his hon. and learned friend as to the effects which the bill then before the House was likely to produce. He was not one of those men who thought that an abuse should be allowed to continue merely because it was of long standing; on the contrary, he agreed with his hon. and learned friend, that whatever time such abuse might have existed, it ought to be corrected when pointed out. But before an alteration of the nature proposed was made so important a branch as that of the church revenue, he thought it was necessary to make out a very strong case indeed of the necessity of such alteration. In looking into history, however, he could not find a single instance where injustice was complained of under the existing system of collecting tithes. In looking over the bill, and he had looked most carefully over it, he could not find more than one clause which he thought likely to be of service,—he meant the clause which provided against a clergyman holding the lands given in composition for certain tithes, and at the same time enforcing the payment of those tithes. He did not object to a remedy being proposed on that point, but he thought it would be going too far to consent to nineteen objectionable clauses for the purpose of adopting one beneficial one. Any person wishing to prove that his land was exempted from tithes would be obliged to prove one of two things; he would be obliged to prove it by the production of the deeds by which such exemption of tithes took place, or else he must give reasonable proof that such deeds had existed. Before any land could be legally exempted from tithes, one of those two things must be proved. But by the bill, all that was necessary to prove such exemption, would be an assertion, generally, that such deeds had at one time existed. Nay, more, one clause went so far as to make it necessary for the clergyman to prove that no such deeds had existed. How far was such a clause consistent with justice, or with the se-
 1135
 Mr. J. H. Smyth  objected to the bill. Its provisions, he conceived, were of a most injurious tendency, as they regarded the protection of church property. According to one of the clauses, every payment of tithes, whether by composition, or by modus,. would be valid, provided no arrangement to the contrary took place during the life of an incumbent. But if one clergyman was to give up the tithes of his district, or to enter into a trifling composition for them, was the church to be deprived of its property on that account? He thought such a principle would be destructive to the whole system on which the church was supported. Here was a bill that went to legalize an  ex-post facto
 Mr. Brougham  began by recalling the attention of the House to the question on which they were about to decide, if they agreed to the right hon. gentleman's amendment. It would be a resolution absolutely to admit of no arrangement whatever for quieting men's possessions against the claims of the church. The arguments used by all who had opposed the bill were confined to its particular provisions. But he asked gentlemen if they were prepared to say, that no time, however long, should bar those claims? Men might differ. as to the best
 1136 primâ facie 1137 1138 1139 sine quâ non, 1140 1141 * 1142 *
 Mr. Peel  declared, that he should not have trespassed on the patience of the House, by opposing the bill in its present stage, had not the hon. and learned gentleman thought proper to allude to the sentiments of his right hon. friend. The hon. and learned gentleman had objected to the words, "most sacred," as descriptive of the patrimony of the church. Perhaps there might be some difficulty in such an application of the word, but at. any rate there were peculiarities in the property of the church which distinguished it above all property that ranked as secular. It was set apart for the support of the ministers of religion; and although he would not insist on this point, the House must. be so far aware of the importance of religious instruction to the community as to respect the maintenance of those who imparted it. It was greatly to be feared that the tithe-holders formed the majority in opposition to the claims of the church. With respect to the hon. member's bill, he must say, that in his opinion, it was the most extraordinary that could well have been framed, considering the magnitude of the subject. The preamble did not even state the grounds and objects of the bill; and if the hon. mover should withdraw the first paragraph, which he seemed disposed to do, it would declare any thing, except the matters to be enacted by it.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, the hon. gentleman would immediately perceive, that the principles upon which the church of Scotland was conducted, differed so much from those which regulated the established church, that the same provisions could not be applied to both. At the same time, his majesty's ministers had not overlooked the situation of the church of Scotland, and felt no disposition to object to a separate proposition for that part of the united kingdom.
 Mr. Barclay  thought the present vote might go to establish an important precedent that would apply to other places, in one of which—he alluded to the borough of Southwark—a considerable expense had, on a late occasion, been thrown on the returning officer. He hoped something would be done to prevent the recurrence of such a case, as such claims on parliament ought not to be encouraged.
 Mr. Bathurst  said, that one of the plaintiff's counsel, Mr. Richardson, made a motion on that subject, but the court held, that, as there was no joint interest in the candidates, the liability was separate. Whatever provision it might be deemed necessary to make hereafter, was not now the question. The question was, whether parliament had not thrown a great duty on the high bailiff, which was not necessarily incidental to his office? The act did throw on him this burden, which was formerly only known by the sheriffs of counties; and why should not parliament grant him an indemnification, under
 1115
 Mr. C. Calvert  said, that, at the last Southwark election, when he and a friend of his, now no more (Mr. H. Thornton), stood as candidate, a third person was nominated by his friends. That individual contended, that he had no right to defray any part of the expense of erecting the hustings, as he was not a candidate, and the high bailiff was obliged to pay it.
 Mr. Marsh  next rose, for the purpose of moving, in the committee, that a sum of money should be granted to the High Bailiff of Westminster, to remunerate him for losses sustained in consequence of the election of a member to serve in parliament for that city, in the year 1812. It was a case, he observed, of pure, unmixed justice, and he conceived that he should weaken it, if he were to detail the circumstances at any length. The claim came recommended by the committee, to which, four years ago, it was referred. In 1806 and 1807 two severe contests took place for the city of Westminster: and, according to the invariable practice of his predecessors, the high bailiff did that, which, if he had not done, the election could not be brought to a proper issue. It was evident, in a place like Westminster, where the election was of a popular character, and where no regular building was set apart for conducting it in, that, if hustings were not erected, scenes of riot and confusion would take place, totally subversive of the rights of the. electors'. The high bailiff, however, erected hustings, at a considerable expense, but the money was never refunded by the candidates. He in consequence brought an action for it in the court of King's-bench, but a verdict was given against him, leaving him a sufferer to the amount of 1,500 l 1110 l l 1111
 Mr. Gipps  wished to know, whether it was the intention not to extend the bill to any parish in which the population was less than ten thousand.
 Mr. Tierney  expressed great satisfaction at what had fallen from the right hon gentleman. It was so much better that this view had been adopted in the quarter in which it could be most advantageously carried into execution, that he could not but congratulate the House upon it.
 Mr. Tierney  gave notice, that soon after the holydays he intended to move, that the sum granted by parliament for the erection of a monument to commemorate our victories by sea and land, be laid out in the erection of a parish church or churches.
 Mr. Brougham  replied, that it was imperative on the high bailiff to have the hustings, and the poll-clerks, &c. ready. It was impossible for him to know whether or not there would be a poll until the time arrived; and such a city as Westminster could not be exposed to all the tumult that would arise from a delay in the commencement of the poll, in the event of its being demanded.
 Mr. Brougham  said, he was counsel against the high-bailiff, when he brought his actions, and he was therefore anxious to do him justice, by explaining his case distinctly. He was non-suited in his action against sir F. Burdett; but, in the other against lord Cochrane he had succeeded. The expense was somewhere about 1,700 l 1114 l
 Mr. Brougham  said, he was always disposed to listen to the hon. member for Corfe Castle, on questions of economy, and was one of the last men who would vote for an unjustifiable expenditure of the public money in grants, either to the Crown or to individuals, but the present appeared to him to be really a claim of strict justice. This gentleman had been saddled with an expense which the legislature never intended to fall on him, merely by the unfortunate use, in an act of parliament, of a word which was not technical, and which a court of law had construed in a sense different from that in which it was intended. The observation of the member for Hertford, that the office was purchased, rendered the high bailiff's claim still stronger. It was an estate on which parliament had, by mistake, imposed a burden, which the purchaser of it could by no means have anticipated. And for whose benefit was the expenditure in question? For that of the public. To blunder in acts of parliament was not peculiar to the House of Commons; but it was peculiarly imperative on that House to be accurate in every thing which respected elections. In the act under consideration that House had said, that the expenses of the hustings, &c. at Westminster, should be borne by the candidate or candidates. When these words were employed by the framers of the act, it was undoubtedly expected by them that whoever might be returned to serve for Westminster, and who professed his readiness to serve, would be liable to bear his share of the burden. A case had, however, occurred, in which a member had been returned who had not sought the honour, and it had been determined by a court of law, that he could not be called a candidate, and that therefore he was not liable to pay any part of the ex-
 1113
 Mr. Croker  observed, that the persons who had been named were not pursers, but clerks who had acted as such. The Admiralty-board had found it impossible to do any thing for them without opening a door to many claims which it would be impossible to comply with. Those who had been pursers were allowed half-pay, but it was impossible to give it to those persons to whom the hon. baronet had alluded, as they did not come within that class.
 Mr. Lockhart  observed, that the act in question was a special one, confined to Westminster, and expired in the present year. The House would therefore do well, if they regarded the peace of Westminster, to adopt some farther legislative proceeding on the subject. As to the question before the committee, it should be remembered that the high bailiff was subject to the penalty of being proceeded against by indictment or information, if, in the event of an election, he did not, in the first instance take on himself all the expense of erecting hustings, providing poll-clerks, &c. He begged leave to say, in behalf of the high bailiff, that, consulting the peace of this large city, he did, on the occasion in question, under very inauspicious circumstances, pay out of his own pocket above 1,500 l 1116
 Mr. Warre  wished to know, whether the plan in contemplation would increase the number of incumbents?
 Dr. Phillimore  perfectly agreed with the right hon. gentleman as to the great importance of the subject. The plan of dividing parishes was most material; it would give the inhabitants of those places a better opportunity of attending divine worship, and it would afford them the advantage of the more immediate pastoral care of the several incumbents. With regard to patronage, the right hon. gentleman had pointed out the only proper mode of its being regulated, and he most completely agreed with him.
 Mr. N. Calvert  said, he did not approve of that division of the parts of our church service the right hon. gentleman had seemed to describe.
 Mr. N. Calvert  thought that the emoluments of the high bailiff's office ought to be made known to the House. It was a situation so valuable as to be the object of purchase; and the expense to which it appeared the high bailiff had been subject, might be no unreasonable burden on him.
 Mr. W. Smith  said, that in some of the northern parts of the country the parishes were so extensive, that the people were prevented from attending at their parish churches. There were some parishes in Scotland not less than forty miles long. He knew one in which the church was thirty miles distant from some of the inhabitants. As to the moral returns alluded to by the hon. baronet, they could not be easily procured. With respect to Norwich, if such a return was brought forward, he had no doubt but it would be honourable to the inhabitants. There were in that city 36 churches, besides a number of large chapels belonging to various sects of dissenters. He wished to know whether it was intended to extend the operation of this measure to Scotland.
 Captain Waldegrave  approved of the general tendency of the resolution. He wished to take that opportunity of remarking, that the monuments in St. Paul's church seemed to be very much neglected. They were, he believed, seldom or never cleaned. Many were then completely covered with dust. He wished that some small fund might be established to prevent this inconvenience in future, and to pay persons who might keep those monuments of public gratitude in proper order.
 Sir Charles Monck  thought it most desirable and expedient that the large part of our population, now unprovided for, should obtain accommodation. But he thought the good effect of this would, in a great degree, be defeated, unless the manner of performing the service in our established churches underwent considerable modification. Nothing was more likely to reclaim the Dissenters—he did not speak this in an invidious sense—to the established church, than an alteration in the manner of performing service. Without some modification, he was afraid little moral and religious improvement could be expected from additional churches. When he considered the state of things in those parts of the country where there was a want of accommodation, and adverted to the state of morals and religion in those parts of the country which were most splendidly endowed, he was led to entertain considerable doubts as to the benefit which would be derived from new churches, without some farther change. In those parts of the country in which the population had increased most of late years, churches were scarce; but there were many parts of the country where the population was very large in old times, greater indeed than it was now. In Norwich, for instance, there were 39 parishes, while, by the last returns, the population was only 38,000. Was Norwich, with this ample provision of churches, a comparatively moral and religious town? He recollected that Durham had also many churches, yet the population was only from eight to 10,000; whereas Newcastle, a very large town, had not above four or five churches. But he had never heard that Durham was more remarkable for morals than Newcastle. In travelling over England, he believed it would be found, that where there were most churches, the people were far from being the most exemplary in their morals. The churches were formerly open at all times, as they were now in foreign countries, and the people were always going to them. There ought to be some modification in the manner of performing the worship—it ought to be more frequently performed
 1129
 Sir George Warrender , in rising to move the Navy Estimates, observed, that the observations which it was necessary for him to offer, might be compressed within a very narrow space. The committee were aware that the navy estimates had, of late years, been laid before the House in so simple a shape, that a detailed explanation of them was no longer called for. For the last twenty years they had been printed in such a manner that every item could be taken into consideration; and in the last two years the subject had been so ably treated by the committees of finance, that he did not know that he could do his duty better than by referring the House to their reports, for the fullest and clearest information. The committee must know, that during the war the expense of the civil department of the navy-had considerably increased, and much of this must remain a permanent charge, as arrangements had been made for. bringing the whole of the work that was formerly done in the merchants' yards, into the King's yards. This was a measure which had long been considered to be exceedingly desirable, not merely as one productive of economy, but as a measure calculated to furnish better ships than were produced in the old way.—Another large branch in the expenditure of the navy, which had been referred to in the eighth report of the committee of finance, was that connected with the public works in the naval yards. These would be found detailed in the report, together with a statement by that able engineer, Mr. Rennie, which would render it unnecessary for him to take up the time of the committee on the subject. The committee were aware, from the nature of all works carried on immediately near the sea, that it was most desirable to complete them as soon as possible. Besides,
 1103 1104 l s. d.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  observed, that if he had any objections generally to the vote proposed, they had been done away by the eighth report of the committee of finance. He did not mean to oppose the vote proposed in any of its items, but that which referred to the puisne lords of the Admiralty, and in that he thought some alteration was absolutely necessary. With this view he should move, as an amendment, that the proposed grant should be reduced in the sum of 2,000 l 1105 * l * 1106 l s. d.
 Sir M. W. Ridley  regretted that, notwithstanding the notice which had been taken on a former occasion, of a very meritorious class of individuals, who had served as pursers in the navy, nothing had been done for their relief. Several persons who had long held such situations, were now to be found begging in the streets, and there was one instance of a man who had been a purser of seven years standing, who was at present on board one of the ships for the reception of destitute seamen, where he was glad to be received to prevent starvation. The committee, he hoped, would take this
 1109
 Lord Folkestone  observed, that pursuant to his notice, he rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to remove certain doubts, supposed to exist, as to the right of Magistrates, to Visit Common or County Gaols, under the act of the 31st of the present reign. Whether it was thought by some, that such a power should exist in the magistracy—whether it was thought, by others, that such power should not exist, or whether it should exist in some cases, and not in others—all, he should suppose, would agree as to the propriety of having the law on the subject clear and explicit, and no longer capable of doubtful or forced interpretation. As the object of his motion was to settle the question, he could not expect any opposition. Certainly, the bill which he should feel it his duty to introduce, would give to the magistracy of the county the right to visit common gaols. But if the gentlemen opposite did not wish to afford that right, or to limit its exercise in certain cases, it would be open to them in the committee to submit enactments to those purposes. That doubts now existed on the subject was undeniable, and his great object was to put an end to them. The House had in its recollection, that during the last session, he had submitted a motion to its consideration, relative to the refusal given to the magistrates of Berkshire, who wished to visit the county gaol. * * 1144 1145 sub salva et arcta custodia, salva custodia arcta custodia, 1146
 The Attorney General  expressed the astonishment which he had felt at hearing the noble lord in the House of Commons accuse, in plain terms, the learned judge who had tried the cause in question, of partiality. It was impossible that any man, exercising the functions of that high office in the state, could have a more serious charge brought against him, for it implied every thing that was base and unworthy. If an individual, who had sworn to administer the law with strict impartiality, lent himself to any purpose, political or otherwise, he did that which ought to subject him to universal reprobation. Although he (the attorney-general) was not present at the trial, he had the most accurate information of all that had passed; of the patient and laborious attention, without any interruption, on the part of the judge, to the learned and ingenious, though fallacious statement of the noble lord's counsel, and to the evidence in every point of the noble lord himself (in which, evidence there were certainly very extraordinary parts, although he had not the slightest idea of insinuating that they were not founded in truth), as well as the patient and laborious attention which he gave to the statement on the part of the defendant. And this last he supposed the noble lord would not deny, that the learned judge was hound more especially to do, when a man was charged with a crime (whether by the noble lord or any one else), who had (he spoke it parenthetically) been punished already on  ex parte 1147 1148 1149 1150
 Sir F. Burdett  was not well acquainted with the merits of the case, but wished to say a few words on the question. As to what had fallen from the hon. gentleman who had just animadverted so freely on his noble friend, he had no doubt that when his noble friend came to reply, he would answer the hon. gentleman's statements very satisfactorily; for he was so
 1152
 The Solicitor General  said, that the only ground upon which the noble lord had called on the House to agree to his motion, seemed to be the acquittal of
 1153
 Lord Folkestone , in reply, said, that he had never before heard that there were no doubts on the subject. On the contrary, he had believed that doubts were very prevalent upon it, and it was for the purpose of removing those doubts, that he had made his present motion. As the attorney—general for whose opinion he entertained great respect, now told him that there were no doubts on the subject, he was not foolish enough to wish to introduce a bill to remove doubts which did not exist. His conduct in the affair in question had been called in question. It had fallen once or twice from the hon. and learned gentleman, that he had wished to establish the right of the magistrates to go and hold secret communication with suspected traitors. He had no such object. He thought he had a right to visit them; and he went to try that right. He allowed, that after he had been in the first instance refused admission, the gaoler offered to let him in, if he would previously stipulate what he would say when in. This he refused, as unbecoming a magistrate; and he had told the gaoler, that were he to admit him on those terms he would not satisfy him (lord F.), and might offend those whose peremptory orders he had received on the subject. Now he wished to know what there was improper in that? An hon. gentleman had been pleased to say that he had stated only parts of the case, and not the whole. The fact was, that he had not stated any part of the case. He had not alluded to any part of the proceedings before the quarter sessions. He would now state the whole story:—On the 10th of June he went to visit the gaol, accompanied by several magistrates. They had a good deal of discussion with the gaoler, who refused to admit them. And here he would observe, without feeling the least animosity towards the individual, that the discovery of his great merits had taken place since the recent occurrences; and that he (lord F.) had no reason to believe that the high eulogiums bestowed on him were perfectly well founded. He attempted to persuade the gaoler that he was acting illegally, to which he replied "I quite agree with you: I believe I have no right to keep you out; but I am ordered by my superiors to do so, and I must obey." On the 14th of June, he again went to the gaol, but the gaoler persisted in his refusal to admit him. At the ensuing quarter sessions he (lord F.) attended,
 1155 1156
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose, to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the Saving Banks, act. The object of the bill was to obviate several difficulties which had been found in carrying the act into excution: for instance, it required an order to receive the principal, and another order to receive the interest. The present bill would authorize general orders for both principal and interest. During the recess, gentlemen would have opportunities of becoming acquainted with other difficulties which it might be proper to remedy. He congratulated the House and the country on the establishment and rapid progress of the Saving banks. Their growth was far beyond expectation, and would have given great delight and satisfaction to the author of the measure (Mr. Rose) had he lived to witness it. It would possibly surprise the House to learn that, since the 6th of August last, when the operation of the bill commenced, to the 11th of March, 1818, no less a sum than 657,000 l
 General Thornton  did not think it would be proper that the money paid into Saving banks should produce a high interest. It would induce persons to put money into them, for whom such banks were not originally intended. It would be better that the interest should be 1 l s d. l s. d.
 Mr. Forbes  said, he wished to call the attention of the House and of his majesty's ministers to the situation of the officers of the navy. When they received pensions for wounds, those pensions were not granted on the same footing as to wounded officers of the army. It was
 1158 l l
 Mr. Forbes  observed, that the hon. secretary to the Admiralty might have spared the patience of the House and his own lungs in the greater part of what he had said, for it was already before the House and the public. He had read the most part of it in a pamphlet intituled "Observations on the Navy,"' purporting to come from "A Friend to the Navy." He did not know who the writer was, but perhaps the hon. secretary was well acquainted with him. He would not attempt to follow the hon. secretary in the speech he had made to the House. The hon. secretary must of course be better ac-
 1162
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  thought it expedient to delay the consideration of such minute questions for the committee. According to the laws now existing, the
 1163
 Mr. C. Grant , sen. was exceedingly happy that such a sum should be voted to so laudable a purpose as that of increasing the number of churches. He hoped the House would see the necessity of extending the benefits of the grant to Scotland. To his own knowledge, there were several districts in the northern part of the kingdom, some of sixty miles in length and twenty in breadth, without a church sufficient to contain the one-twentieth part of the population. He trusted the House would see the necessity of attending to this important subject.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he heard the observations of his hon. friend with attention, and he had no hesitation in saying, that his majesty's government would have no objection whatever to extend the benefit of the grant to the northern part of the kingdom. But his hon. friend would perceive, that in consequence of the great difference in the constitution of the church of Scotland and that of England, it would not be very convenient to embody the intended grant to both in the same bill. His majesty's government would have no hesitation in supporting any measure which might be thought necessary for increasing the number of churches in the northern part of the kingdom, and he was convinced the same disposition would be found to exist in the House. The aid would be extended, he had no doubt, to all parishes whose extent or population required it. He wished here to correct a misunderstanding which had gone abroad with respect to some observations which had fallen from him on this subject last night. He was represented to have said, that no aid was intended to be granted to parishes, where the population was under 10,000 persons. He had said no such thing. The commissioners to be appointed would have the power of granting aid for the building, or enlargement of churches in all parishes, according to their particular exigencies. What he had 6tated was, that he feared,
 1164
 Mr. Forbes  supported the measure, and agreed, that the money would be well laid out in promoting such a purpose.
 General Thornton  asked, whether in the cases of divisions of parishes, such as that whereby the parish of St. George, Hanover—square, was divided from St. Martin's, it was intended that the division should be solely for ecclesiastical purposes?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  could assure the gallant general, that it was not intended to propose a division of parishes for civil purposes. But he would distinctly state, what were the objects of the present bill. In the first place, it would empower the king, in council, upon at representation to that effect, to direct the division of a parish, for ecclesiastical purposes, into two or more parochial districts. Secondly, to such divided districts would be assigned each its church and minister. The third provision would extend to the erection of chapels of ease in parishes, the ministers of such chapels to be nominated by the incumbents of the said parishes, subject to the approbation of the diocesan, and without at all deranging the civil or secular rule of such parishes.
 Mr. A. Browne  was desirous that the power of removing curates should not be taken away from vicars and transferred to the bishops. When any complaint were made against a curate by the parishioners, the delay of appealing to the bishop, and in waiting for his decision, was often very great, and frequently detrimental to the interest of the parishioners. He hoped that some clause would be introduced to remedy so great an inconvenience.
 Mr. Brogden  brought up the report of the Committee on that part of the Prince Regent's Speech, which related to the building of New Churches in different parts of the kingdom. On the motion that it be read,
 Mr. Brogden  brought up the report of the Committee of Supply to which the Navy Estimates were referred. On the question, that the report be received,
 Mr. Croker  said, that nothing could be more mischievous to the navy than the views of the hon. gentleman, if carried into effect. This was not the first time the hon. gentleman had introduced this subject to the attention of the House; and it was not now the first or second or third time he had been answered. The hon. gentleman ought to know something of the state of the two services, and the different advantages enjoyed by each, before he recommended any change with regard to them. It was true a lieutenant colonel had 6 d. 1159 l. s. 1160
 Mr. Croker  admitted, that it was the hon. gentleman's right to make any observations he pleased upon the subject at any stage of the proceedings; but what he had complained of was, that the hon. gentleman had not made those remarks in a committee. He did not think it quite fair that the hon. gentleman should come with his second budget of grievances at a time when the details could not be so well entered into as they might have been in a former stage. Whenever the hon. member thought proper to bring forward these matters, he would be ready to give an account of them most satisfactory, if not to the hon. gentleman, at least to the House and the country.
 Mr. Babington  thought the public would be repaid by the improved morality of the lower orders; but there was some danger that persons of an improper class would avail themselves of Saving banks. He belonged to one from which all but servants, mechanics, and other persons in the same rank of life had been excluded; but it was astonishing how many persons in a superior rank endeavoured to avail themselves of it. One gentleman possessed of above 40,000 l
 Mr. Thompson  agreed with the hon. member, as to the propriety of preventing any but the lower classes from placing their money in Saving banks. He knew several cases where persons of affluent circumstances vested sums in Saving banks on account of their children. If such a system were allowed, persons who had money to spare would not place it in country banks nor in the funds, nor in other securities from which a less interest was derived, but from which a greater benefit would arise to the public. He hoped the chancellor of the exchequer would introduce a clause in the bill to prevent all but the lower classes from vesting their money in these banks.
 Mr. Huskisson  said, that the hon. gentleman had spoken of our navy as if that House had heard then, for the first time, of their gallant deeds—as if their services had been altogether forgotten. Had he been, however, at the pains to inform himself, he might have been soon satisfied, that the country had neither been insensible to the services of our gallant seamen, nor unmindful of making due provision for their comforts. He would likewise have found, that no such distinction existed in the rate of compensation to the army and navy as he had been led to think; or, if it did, that it was easily to be accounted for, from the nature and
 1161 l l
 Mr. Money  said, the object of his hon. friend seemed to have been misapprehended. It was not his intention, he believed, to throw any imputation upon the conduct of the Admiralty, but simply to submit the fact to the notice of the House, that a great difference did exist in the rate of providing for the officers of the army and navy. The services of the navy, and the glorious deeds achieved by its means, were in a special manner entitled to the gratitude of this country; for without our navy, the triumphs of our army had not been so signal and complete. Without the co-operation of our navy, the exertions of Wellington and his victorious troops would not have been attended with such brilliant and decisive success. When he considered the many and signal triumphs they had obtained, the long and arduous blockades they had sustained for years together, it was impossible for him to admit that the rate of compensation to which they were in justice entitled should be inferior to that of the army. The bravery of British seamen was proverbial, and he need only instance the conduct of his hon. friend the member for Glamorgan, who with a handful of men on board his ship, performed actions last war which were sufficient to immortalize him. The bombardment of Algiers was also a striking proof of the bravery of British seamen, and ought to induce the House to keep a strict and watchful eye to their interests. He hoped, therefore, that the situation of naval officers, of all classes, would be attended to, and that they would meet with that protection from their country which their conduct so richly merited.
 Mr. Sturges Bourne  said, that after the able speech of the hon. and learned gentleman, he would not argue the law of the case, but would confine himself to the statement of a few facts. The noble lord had told the House that he went to the gaol at Reading, with a view to gain admission to the state prisoners confined there, and that having been refused admission, be indicted the gaoler in consequence. But the noble lord had not told the House another circumstance, which, if true, was a most important feature in the case. And here he would observe, that that evening was the first time since he had sat in that House, that he had heard an attack on a learned judge, not in the shape of a charge which that learned judge could answer, but in a speech which he could not answer, of the most serious description, imputing to that learned judge direct and gross impartiality; nay, farther, declaring, that if he had a
 1151 rectus in curiâ.
 Mr. Wilberforce  expressed his decided approbation of the proposed measure, and felt that the public money could not be more profitably employed.
 Sir John Newport  was glad the chancellor of the exchequer had taken this subject into his hands. The greatest advantages would result from it. As to the paradox of the hon. general, that the lower orders did not wish to make their money productive, it was too absurd (he did not mean any offence) to need refutation. Thinking as he did on the subject, he should deprecate any measure which tended to counteract the present
 1157
 Lord Castlereagh  said, that he fully agreed with some of the general observations of the hon. and learned gentleman. His exposition, so far as it went, was perfectly fair and clear. He had no doubt, but he should be able to present the subject in such a light, as would give satisfaction to the House, and to the hon. and learned gentleman himself; and to prove to him, that circumstances were such as to free the arrangements with Spain from all impeachment. He would first make a few observations as to the general grounds of the right upon which the arrangement was entered into. There could be no doubt, that it was perfectly competent to one sovereign to contract with another as to the claims of their subjects, with a view to adjustment. The claims of individual subjects would otherwise lead to general confusion and perpetual warfare. It was the duty of a sovereign to obtain justice for his subjects from foreign powers; but the Crown was alone competent to judge how far it had a right to prosecute that end by warfare or stipulation. If any other principle were admitted, all claims of subjects might become individually an object of negotiation which could never be
 1168 l l 1169 1170 1171
 Lord Castlereagh  explained, that the treaty gave to the king of Spain a full remuneration for the claims of his subjects, and to the latter a whole and entire remedy in their own tribunals. The distinction taken in his correspondence was between the claimants who had entered their appeals in time, and those who had not.
 Mr. Wynn  said, he would not dispute the abstract proposition, that a sovereign had a right to adjust with another potentate the claims of any of his subjects; this power, he admitted, was vested, and necessarily so, in the head of any state, whether republican or monarchical. He also admitted, with the noble lord, that the question here was, whether the power so vested had been properly applied in the particular case. The claims not duly appealed were, of course, out of the consideration; but when the legislature, by a special act, prescribed the mode of pursuing a legal inquiry to correct a wrong, and where the sufferers had followed the course laid down and obtained an adjudication, after making out their demands to the satisfaction of the court—then both equity and justice required that they should be protected in the rights they had acquired. The case of America was not exactly in point. It was known that in America, at the period when the treaty was made, from the fermentation which prevailed after a protracted war, the courts of justice were not then to British subjects the seats of equity, in many cases; therefore, any international arrangements to cover individual claims
 1173
 Lord Castlereagh , in reference to what had just fallen from the hon. and learned gentleman, was persuaded it would be satisfactory to him and to the House to be informed, that the government of the Netherlands had signified their readiness to assent to the principles of the treaties with Spain and Portugal, and that a treaty to that effect was in a state of great forwardness.
 General Thornton  objected to the high interest paid upon deposits. It would, he said, be the means of money being deposited by persons whom these banks were not intended to benefit; and as government could now borrow money at about one-half the rate
 1178
 The Chancellor of the. Exchequer  said, that when the bill came again before the House, he should move the recommittal for the purpose of receiving any amendment that might be suggested; but at present, from the inquiries he had made, and from all the circumstances upon which he was enabled to form a judgment, ha thought it inexpedient to check the object of the bill. The privilege allowed had certainly, in some cases, been abused, and perhaps it would be as well to reduce the amount: 100 l l l 1179
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated, that it was intended in this bill to consolidate all the various duties imposed since 1809, which was the period when a consolidation last took place. The duties would remain nearly as they were, with a few exceptions. There were a few general principles to which, on this occasion, he wished to call the attention of the House. With respect to the Irish duties, which must soon undergo a revision, it was intended they should remain for the present unchanged. No alteration would take place in the duty on timber. With respect to  ad valorem 1180
 Mr. Forbes  said, that the trade to our East India establishment was hourly increasing in importance, and ought to have a proportionate share of the attention of his majesty's ministers and of the legislature.
 Mr. Bulterworth  admitted, that it was most desirable that England should become the carrier of the greater part of the world. There were some staple articles in which other countries had decided advantages over this country; for instance, it was not possible for this country to compete with France in the silk manufacture. He was of opinion, that the most sale way to effect the purpose of the right hon. gentleman would be, by allowing in all cases drawbacks on exportation equivalent to the duties paid on import.
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  said, that he addressed the House with reluctance on this subject, but he considered that, by the noble lord's own admission, injustice had been done somehow and somewhere. He was sorry that a claim in equity should be connected with any thing so atrocious as the slave trade; but he nevertheless thought the honour and justice of the country implicated in this question. The noble lord was rather unhappy in his allusion to the American treaty, for that was
 ‡ 1172
 Mr. Brougham  was of opinion, that if the consent of the court of Spain to abolish the trade were the only result of the payment of 400,000 l 1174
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  contended, that there was considerable impolicy in laying duties upon articles of commerce generally, without a due regard and reference to their quality; an average had, therefore, been hitherto wisely adopted. Nothing could be more prejudicial, for instance, than to rate the duty on sugar grown at 50 s. s. s.
 Alderman Atkins  wished to know to what particular sums individuals would be limited.
 Dr. Phillimore , in reply, observed, that his arguments must certainly have been misunderstood. He would appeal to the House, whether he had not distinctly separated the question from the abolition of the slave trade, and whether he had not distinctly and fully expressed his abhorrence of that trade? The question on which he went was, whether those claimants who were in possession of a verdict of a British court of justice in their favour, ought not to be indemnified for their losses in the first instance, and the subsequent heavy expenses incurred in the prosecution of their claims, and whether there was not a difference between the cases of such persons, and those whose claims were in progress? He did not deny the right of the sovereign to bind the subject by any treaty entered in o with a foreign power; but he thought the honour of the country ought to be maintained; that the purity and integrity of British courts of justice, which were hitherto in such high estimation, ought not to be lessened in the minds of other nations, but which would be the case if the persons whose cause he advocated were to be deprived of redress. He admitted that three out of the four cases he had mentioned, did not come within the act. The fourth did. The noble lord had stated that it was the captor and not the public who would be liable if no treaty had been entered into. He would appeal to the House, whether it would be fair to have the captor of a slave ship, the man who had been instrumental to the rescuing of a number of poor creatures from slavery, that such a person should be ruined in his fortune by being obliged to pay all the damages attendant on the restoration of his prize? In such cases the public should undoubtedly pay for what had been in accordance with public feeling. Besides, there were many cases which occurred before the treaty was entered into, before it was thought of, and which did not come within the grant of the 400,000 l 1177
 Dr. Phillimore  observed, that in rising, pursuant to notice, upon the present occasion, he did not apprehend it would be necessary for him to trespass at much length upon the time or the patience of the House, as the subject was confined within narrow limits. By a treaty that had been recently concluded, the sum of
 1165 l 1166 l 1167
 Mr. Money  said, he considered the 400,000 l
 Mr. Wilberforce  observed, that it was a singular fact, that until it was found the Spanish flag could cover the illicit traffic, no vessels of that nation had been busily engaged in the trade. It was, therefore, clear to him, that the real traders were not Spanish subjects, or persons having any claim for remuneration in the courts of Spain. This accounted for the anxiety of such parties to urge a settlement here.
 Mr. Wilberforce  thought the distinction on which the motion of the hon. and learned member rested, was one which could not be made as easily as he imagined. He would not conceal from the House, that when he first heard the question agitated, he thought the letter of the act should be strictly attended to. But when he came to consider the subject more closely, he could find no difference between the cases where awards had been made and those which were in progress. It had been well observed, that more were concerned in the question than the governments of England and Spain. Much had been said about the losses likely to be sustained by Spanish claimants, if the awards of the Admiralty court were not enforced; but it was well known that such was the system of fraud carried on by persons of other nations, that the Spanish flag was used as a protection for carrying on that odious trade in slaves which could not otherwise be continued by them. On that account it was, that the several claimants were so desirous of applying to England for redress under the Spanish flag, which they knew it would be useless to seek for in Spain—as such fraud would there be easily detected. But it would not be right to allow strangers to take advantage of an act passed in this country from the most generous feeling, particularly when such advantage was taken for the protection of a traffic which the whole nation had set their faces against, and which was so revolting to human nature. What had been the consequence of that trading in slaves which was carried on by those ships, the capture of which was now a subject of litigation? When the French had been driven from their settlements on or near the coast of Senegal, the poor inhabitants found some safety from their former persecutions. Instead of taking refuge in their woods and hiding places, as they were previously obliged to do, to avoid being entrapped and dragged into
 1175
 Mr. J. Smith , in presenting a petition to the same effect from the workmen employed in the cotton factories at New Lanark, took occasion to observe, that he had had an opportunity of seeing the individuals who signed this petition at
 1183
 Mr. Protheroe  presented 286 petitions from Bristol, praying for annual parliaments and universal suffrage. The hon. member observed, that he had conversed with several of the petitioners, upon the subject to which their petitions referred; and although they had not been able to persuade him that he ought to adopt their opinions, he felt it due to their character to declare, that they did not appear to be actuated by any improper design—but to act from a conviction that the establishment of annual parliaments and universal suffrage was the best mode of restoring and preserving the purity of that House.
 Mr. W. Smith  presented a Petition from 400 persons engaged in cotton spinning, of Herod, in Ashton-under-Lyne; and another from Staley-bridge, signed by 4,000 persons employed in cotton manufactories, praying, that the Bill before the House, for regulating the hours of labour in the several branches of the cotton factories might be adopted. The hon. member boro testimony to the temperate and respectful language of the petitioners.
 Mr. Marryat  strongly deprecated the object of this bill, being convinced that if the transfer of slaves to Demerara and Berbice were allowed, it would be extremely difficult, if not impossible, to prevent them from being smuggled into other parts of the continent over which we had no dominion, and especially to Surinam. But on the score of that humanity which had produced the abolition of the slave trade, he would resist a measure which proposed to transport slaves from the scene of their early connexions to distant and unhealthy regions. Such transportation, it should be recollected, was but too likely to benefit foreigners, to the prejudice of our own colonies; for there could be little doubt that if the transportation to Demerara and Berbice were tolerated, the slaves would be seduced, and clandestinely taken away to Surinam, where, from the peculiar fertility of the soil, great temptation was held out to capitalists.—Leave was given to bring in the bill, which was brought in accordingly, and read a first time.
 Mr. May  presented a petition from Belfast praying the repeal of the Window tax, which being ordered to lie on the table, the hon. member took occasion to ask the chancellor of the exchequer, whether the understanding in Ireland was correct, that it was his intention to propose the repeal of this unpopular tax?
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he was glad that the hon. gentleman had afforded him an opportunity of giving some explanation upon the subject to which the petition referred. He understood it to have been generally stated in the Irish papers, as a communication from authority, that it was his intention to move the repeal of the tax alluded to. This statement he had read with surprise, as he certainly never entertained such an intention, nor was he conscious of having ever uttered a word to induce the expectation so generally expressed in the Irish journals. He regretted that he felt himself compelled upon this subject to oppose the wishes of a great proportion of the people of Ireland; but he could not concur in the propriety of repealing this tax, considering the material deficiency of the Irish revenue, and the great amount of the public debt of that country upon the consolidation of the two treasuries.
 Mr. Holmes  observed, that doubts had arisen whether the acts allowing the transfer of slaves from one of our colonies to another, extended to Demerara and Berbice; and with a view to remove those doubts, he proposed that the chairman be instructed to move "for leave to bring in a bill to explain three acts passed in the 46th, 47th, and 51st years of his majesty's reign respectively, for the abolition of the Slave Trade;" to which motion he understood the hon. member for Bramber did not mean to object.
 Mr. Wilberforce  said, he should not object to the motion, but he was persuaded that when the object of the bill came to be considered, it would be found to menace the worst effects to the interests of Great Britain, as well as to those of the colonies. Yet he would not oppose the
 1186
 Mr. Alderman Wood  said, that he had to present several Petitions from a very worthy and meritorious class of the community, whose interests he understood would be most materially affected by the projected bridge over the Thames near Rotherhithe. The petitions were all signed by the same description of persons, the watermen below bridge, who stated in their petitions, that their employment and consequent sole means of living arose from the conveyance of passengers and luggage upon that part of the Thames, situated at and in the neighbourhood of Cuckold's Point Stairs, and that should the bridge contemplated by an act now before the House be erected over that part of the Thames, their plying would be completely rendered useless and unprofitable. They farther represented, that they had acquired the right to ply upon the river by an apprenticeship of several years, and that the greater proportion of their body had, at one period or other, served with credit on board his majesty's vessels of war.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  replied, that although the court of aldermen had it in their power, by act of parliament to apply some relief as to the inadequacy of the present fares, still the court could not prevent, by raising their fares, the ruin which must ensue to the petitioners, should their plying be altogether cut off below bridge, as they apprehended. The petitioners, in fact, bad prayed for an indemnity in the event of the bridge being
 1188
 Mr. Peel  said, he felt extreme satisfaction at having it in his power to lay before the House the petition he then held in his hand. It referred to the question of excessive labour in cotton factories, to which such frequent allusion had been made, in and out of the House. It was a petition from Manchester; the signatures affixed to it, amounting to 1,731, were of the very first respectability; and from the condition of the subscribing parties, it was impossible they could be stimulated to make this application to parliament through any thing like interested motives. He felt happy in introducing to the attention of the House a document containing that species of evidence, of which it had been asserted upon a former evening that the House was not yet in possession. Herein was contained the evidence of the constant eye-witnesses of the injurious consequences of excessive labour, and long-continued confinement in the cotton factories in that neighbourhood. It had been also a source of objection on a late occasion, that although there had been obtained the opinions of some distinguished physicians corroborating the general opinion, that such excessive application was extremely unfavourable to health, still these were nothing more than the speculative opinions of London practitioners, unacquainted, in point of fact, with the actual situation or condition of this description of mechanics. It had also been said, that the signatures affixed to former petitions had in some instances, been those of persons actuated by discontent, and even a spirit of Luddism. If any thing could remove these objections, he trusted it would be the present petition. It was in the first place signed by 1,731 of the most respectable inhabitants, who most feelingly deplored the distressing situation of those manufacturers, whose labour was not alone protracted so as even to trench on the hours absolutely necessary for repose, but exerted in a temperature of such excessive warmth
 1189
 Sir F. Burdett  warmly reprobated the practice of compelling children of a tender age, at all seasons, and in all weathers, to go to labour at four or five o'clock in the morning, and of keeping them employed until nine or ten in the evening.
 1190
 Mr. Peel  said, that if the petition had not been more numerously signed, it was because the parties wished it should only contain the names of individuals who had no personal interest whatever in the question.
 Mr. J. Smith  presented a Petition from Messrs. Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme, and Brown, booksellers and co-partners; setting forth, 1191 l., 1192 1193
 Mr. C. Grant,  jun. rose, to move an amendment to the noble lord's motion. He hoped he should be understood to be influenced in the remarks which he should feel it his duty to submit to the House on the subject, by no other motive than his conviction of what was required by the general interests of the country. At the same time, with every feeling of respect for those individuals who had petitioned parliament for a repeal of this tax, he must say, that they came forward under very singular circumstances. For what was the peculiar situation in which the leather trade was placed during the last century? Taxation on every other trade had been greatly increased during that period. The wealth and power of the country had greatly increased. Yet since the reign of queen Anne, when the single duty on leather was imposed, no additional duty had been laid on leather until the bill of 1812. All the trades, and all the staple manufacturers of the country, and even many of the necessaries of life had been taxed to a great amount, while this article of feather had enjoyed the sole exemption from contributing to bear the common burthens of the state. And yet, if the House considered the subject, it would be difficult to discover on what possible ground this trade should have been so distinguished. The tax, however, having been doubled in 1812, the petitioners asked the House to place the trade in the situation in which it was a hundred years ago! At the very first view of the subject, the injustice of such a subject, with reference to the other branches of our national industry, was evident. If, indeed, it could be proved that the trade had suffered injury from the tax of 1812—if it could be proved, that the revenue had diminished in consequence of the imposition of that tax—if it could be proved, that the
 1194 prima facie l. l. l. l. 1195 l. l. l. á priori 1196 l. l. l. l. l. 1197
 Lord Deerhurst  did not intend to trespass above a moment on the attention of the House, in treading afresh the track so beaten already, by a recapitulation of the arguments which had been, he hoped, successfully used by the noble lord who had originally moved the question, and by other honourable members who intended to vote as he did, for the repeal of the additional duties on leather. It was not his inclination to oppose, upon trifling grounds, the taxation considered necessary by his majesty's ministers; but representing, as he did, a great commercial city, deeply interested in the present debate, he could not give a silent vote without stating, that the repeal of the additional duties on leather was of great import to many highly-respectable persons connected with that trade in Worcester, who prayed to be relieved from the burden of it, that they might, at least upon equal terms, meet the foreign manufacturer in the market, which they were unable to do with the additional duties in force, as they at present stood. He should therefore vote for the repeal of the bill.
 Mr. Marryat  begged to explain his vote, which, instead of being opposed to that he had formerly given, like that of the hon. member for Bristol, would be in perfect consistency with his former opi-
 1200
 Lord Cowpton  said, he had not pledged himself to support the repeal of the salt tax; but in general he preferred direct to indirect taxation.
 The Attorney-General  said, that he did not mean to oppose the motion; but from what the hon. member had stated, he felt it necessary to submit a  few l. l. 1210
 Lord Stanley , to show the mode in which statements were prepared, begged to refer to one which was published in the Manchester Exchange Herald of 31st March, and which had been sent to many members of parliament: — that in the Sunday-school Sick Society of Jersey-street, Manchester, out of forty persons relieved, thirty-three worked in factories; thus conveying an impression, that the unhealthiness of this employment, compared with that of others, was as thirty-three to seven, whilst the fact was, that the society consisted of 270 children, of whom 213 were employed in factories, 23 in other occupations, and 34 had not begun to work. The numbers relieved, were of factory children 33 in 213, or one in six 4-tenths; and of those in other occupations seven in twenty-three, or one in three 2-tenths: and as to the time during which those of each class remained chargeable upon the sick fund, it appeared that the factory children averaged at the rate of three and a half days each for the thirteen months to which the statement referred, and those employed in other occupations at the rate of five 3-fourths days each. The 34 children who had not begun to work, did not appear to have received assistance from the society's fund.
 Mr. F. Douglas  said, that as he understood no opposition would be made to his motion for leave to bring in a bill to diminish the fees on Pardons under the Great Seal, he should make only a few observa-
 1208 l. l. 1209
 Mr. Philips  did not wish to anticipate the discussion on this subject, but he could not help observing that, under the circumstances of the case, the number of signatures to the petition was very small. As to the medical men of Manchester, he knew that great differences of opinion existed among them on this question. He had in his possession certificates from physicians, who formed their judgment on facts, and not on general impressions (as was probably the case with the medical gentlemen whose signatures were attached to the petition), and these certificates perfectly corresponded with what he had felt it his duty to state to the House, namely that in Manchester, the health of those in the factories was better than the health of those who were otherwise employed.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that there were one or two things which had fallen from the hon. secretary to the treasury, which he could not suffer to pass unnoticed. He had argued, that if this tax was repealed, another to an equal amount must be imposed. This he denied. It was proper to repeal this tax, but it was not necessary to impose another instead of it. How had they proceeded on an occasion precisely similar? The House had been pleased two years ago to repeal a much larger though not a more oppressive tax. Till this tax was repealed, ministers found it impossible to reduce any of their estimates, but immediately after the repeal, they took back all the estimates, and made considerable reductions in many of them. Why might they not now imitate their former conduct? Why might they not now take a leaf out of their own book? Instead of taking an additional tax, let them go to the establishments, and take them down 180,000 l. 1204 l. 1205 l.
 Mr. Wrottesley  took that opportunity of suggesting to the court of aldermen, who had so extensive a jurisdiction in the affairs of the watermen, the urgent necessity there existed for raising the fares of watermen plying on the river. Every article of life had made several progressive advancements in price since the watermen's fares had been last increased, and they could not possibly earn a livelihood if they were to receive no more than their bare fares as established by law. The introduction of a bill to remedy this grievance, would, he thought, be much more becoming on the part of the corporation of the city of London, than giving any encouragement to complaints evidently levelled against the erection of works or public utility.
 Mr. Methuen  said, he never knew so strong a feeling in the country against any tax, as there was against that which it was now proposed to repeal. He believed, that were they to search all England over, they would not be able to find one tanner in favour of the tax, except the tanner who had corresponded with the hon. gentleman who spoke last.
 Mr. Benson  said, that if by the language he had used, he had given any offence, it was very much regretted by him. Nothing could be farther from his intention than to convey any personal reflection against the hon. gentleman. All that he had meant to say, with respect to the conduct pursued by the hon. gentleman, was, that as when he gave his former vote, it was supposed we were on the eve of an election, this circumstance had had its influence. He did not mean any thing personal to the hon. gentleman; but that, with the view of standing well in the opinion of his constituents, he had made use of a little manoeuvre which all of them understood very well.
 Mr. Benson  said, that the hon. member for Bristol had urged as a reason for the new view which he took of the present question, a letter which he had received from a person extensively engaged in the tanning trade. The hon. gentleman had said, that the writer of that letter had a perfect knowledge of his own interest; and he thought he might say, that the
 1201
 Mr. Hart Davis  wished to ask the hon. gentleman, upon what grounds he had presumed to impute to him, the being actuated by improper motives in any vote which he should now give, or which he had ever given in that House.
 Mr. Hart Davis,  amidst loud calls of question! said, he merely rose to explain the vote he should give that evening against the repeal, having formerly voted for the repeal of the tax [Hear, hear!]. During the holidays he had taken great pains to inquire into the state of the leather trade, and the result of his inquiries among the most intelligent men was, that the repeal called for was unnecessary. He held in his hand a letter from a very eminent tanner in Bristol, who had as thorough knowledge of his own interest as any other man in the trade.—Here the hon. gentleman read an extract from the letter, which set forth, that the town and neighbourhood of Bristol had not peti-
 1199
 Lord Compton  contended, that the argument used by an hon. gentleman, that no additional tax had been laid on the leather trade from the reign of queen Anne to the year 1812, was most unfortunate for his side of the question; for it proved the view which the different chancellors of the exchequer, who had succeeded each other during that period, entertained of that subject. Had they thought such a tax justifiable, they certainly would not have been so long without imposing it.
 Mr. Lushington  said, that the result of the inquiries he had made were very different from that expressed by some hon. gentlemen opposite. The sense of all the tanners whom he had consulted upon the subject was in favour of the tax. On an average of five years before the imposition of the tax, the drawback on the exportation of leather amounted to 52,000 l. 1202 l. l. l l. 1203
 Mr. Huskisson  wished to explain an error into which he was surprised the hon. and learned gentleman had fallen. He had said, that if this tax were taken off, the House might proceed as they had done before, without substituting any other. If the hon. and learned gentleman alluded to the property tax he was totally mistaken. There was an obvious distinction between a tax only for the duration of the war, and this tax which formed part of the Ways and Means, and was carried to the consolidated fund for the payment of the interest of the debt. This tax, he must inform the hon. and learned gentleman, formed no part of the supply of the year, and whether they were to abate 5,000 or 10,000 men, there would be no difference respecting it, as it was pledged for the payment of the interest of the loans granted on the faith of parliament. The whole amount of the permanent taxes carried to the consolidated fund were not equal to the charge on it; and therefore every body must see that the tax could not be repealed without the substitute of another. If there had been an excess of
 1206 1207 l.
 The Speaker  observed, that the language of the hon. gentleman fairly bore the interpretation which had been put upon it. It was a language which, by the rules of the House, the hon. gentleman was not warranted in holding. The words made use of by the hon. gentleman certainly conveyed a personal reflexion against the hon. member for Bristol; and he should be wanting in his duty if he did not now declare his opinion on the subject.
 Lord Althorp  perfectly agreed with the hon. gentleman, that the prosperity of the country depended on supporting the revenue; but he thought it a very material duty for that House to support the manufactures from which that revenue was derived. He had not heard any thing to convince him of the policy of continuing this tax; but, on the other hand, he was
 1198
 Mr. J. H. Smith  said, that strong prejudices prevailed upon the subject, some of which he believed to be unfounded. The signatures of many respectable men now appeared to petitions, though the same persons were totally silent upon the subject in 1814, when it obtained a very full discussion. The bill passed at that time conferred many important privileges upon publishers and authors which it was expected would indemnify them for the loss they considered themselves liable to by the copies which were required to be delivered to the universities. He hoped the bill now before the House upon the
 1219
 Lord Castlercagh  observed, that several matters stood on the orders for Friday, but he apprehended that, if the noble lord wished to make his motion on that day, it would, as a matter of privilege, be entitled to precedency.
 General Thornton  was not aware that the motion for Tuesday embraced the object which he had then in view; but as he now understood that that object would be included in the intended motion, he would, with the leave of the House, withdraw his.
 Mr. Bankes  was of opinion, that as this petition professed to come from a public meeting, and was only signed by one individual, it ought not to be received. He was aware, that the House sometimes extended their indulgence so far as to consider a petition of a public meeting the petition of the individual who signed it; but as this petition alleged only general opinions, he thought it would be inconvenient for the House to extend their indulgence to it. He wished, therefore, to refer to the standing order of the the House which forbid the receiving such petitions.
 Mr. Wynn  contended, that there was a great difference between a petition like this, and one signed by a sheriff in the name of a county meeting. This alone was a ground for refusing to receive it; but when he looked at the manner in which it was worded, and the outrage offered to the House, by attributing selfish principles to them, he could come to no other conclusion, than that the petition was presented for the purpose of insulting the House, and therefore ought to be rejected.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  was surprised to hear it said that such a petition ought to lie on the table. The words "selfish principles," contained in the petition were such as one member could not, without great irregularity, use to another, at least if he was to hear any member use such language in that House, he would certainly call him to order.
 General Thornton  rose, pursuant to the notice he had given, to move for an account of the nominal value of notes presented at the Bank of England and refused payment, in consequence of being forgeries. It was, he observed, a matter of melancholy consideration, to observe how rapidly the crime of forgery had increased within a few years. Indeed, so great had been the sacrifice of human life in consequence of convictions for forgeries of late, that several persons against whom there was sufficient evidence to convict capitally, had been suffered to escape with impunity. Compromises were frequently entered into with the accused parties, and the capital charge withdrawn in consequence of their consenting to plead guilty to the charge of uttering forged notes. He was well convinced, that if the directors of the Bank gave the proper encouragement to able artists, means might be devised of rendering forgery, if not impossible, at least extremely difficult. He was sorry that the plan proposed to the Bank about twenty years ago by Mr. Tilloch, had not been adopted. That gentleman had invented a particular kind of plate, which in the opinion of Mr. Bartolozzi, and all the eminent artists of that day, was considered as inimitable. They had declared it was impossible to imitate it with any chance of success. At that time, however, the Bank consulted Mr. Terry their engraver, and he produced what was called an imitation of it, but his imitation was declared by many celebrated artists to be so bad, that no person could be deceived by it. Since, then, the Bank had altogether neglected the plan, though its completion was still within their power. He trusted, however, that they would now, from motives of humanity, see the necessity of devising some method of preventing a crime which had risen to such a height. If the Bank directors should not come forward with a motion for a committee on the subject, he trusted the chancellor of the exchequer would. Indeed, he felt much more interested in this subject at present than before, in consequence of the motion of
 1224
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  said, that he wished to call the attention of the House to a subject of great importance, affecting the privileges of the Commons House of Parliament. He would not at present enter into any details on the subject; he wished merely to state, that it related to a contest now going on in a county for the election of a member to serve in that House, in which contest a noble lord, a member of the other House of parliament, had thought proper to interfere. He intended to submit this matter to their consideration on Friday next; and he now desired merely to know whether, as this motion related to a breach of their privileges, it would not be entitled to precedency over other business. He should abstain from mentioning the names of the parties, or any of the particulars, unless the chair, or any honourable member, thought that he ought to be more explicit on the subject. If no farther expiation were required, he should now merely add, that he would bring forward this matter on Friday next.
 Lord Stanley  wished to
 1220 1221
 Mr. Tierney  said, it appeared to him that the petitioners had used the word selfish as intending to convey that the House had entered into a narrow view of the subject, and had not proceeded on general grounds. If the House were to reject such petitions as this, they might as well say at once, that the people should never petition for parliamentary reform. Feeling as anxious as any man that the doors of the House should be open to petitions, he must declare his opinion, that there was nothing derogatory to their dignity in the language of this petition. The word "selfish" was the only unhappy word on which the chancellor of the exchequer had been able to place his hand. The right hon. gentleman had said, that any member who should use that word, in debate, would be called to order. Now he would use that word on the very first opportunity, and he was sure the right hon. gentleman would not call him to order [Hear, hear!] If there was any thing really offensive to the House contained in the petition, he would not support it. But if people who had no land saw those who had a good deal passing a
 1223
 Mr. Gurney  said, that in many cases the inconvenience to authors and publishers was very great, in consequence of the number of copies with which they were bound to furnish the universities. This in-convenience was particularly felt when the work was expensive. Mr. Lysons was then publishing a work the price of which would be 60 guineas, so that before he could derive the least profit from the sale of it it would be incumbent on him to send copies to the universities amounting to 660 guineas.
 Mr. Lambton  would not enter into the question of informality; but he had attended to the wording of the petition, and he certainly could see nothing in it insulting or derogatory to the House. If the hon. member meant to propose that the petition should be rejected on the ground of improper language, he should feel it his duty to divide the House on that point.
 Mr. Grenfell  did not mean to oppose the motion, but he suggested to the hon. general whether it would not be better to withdraw it for the present, in consequence of a motion of an hon. and learned friend of his (sir J. Mackintosh) which stood for Tuesday, and which embraced the same object along with some others.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  stated, that he had no intention whatever to cast any reflection upon country bankers, nor was such a supposition warranted by the character of the measure which he proposed to bring forward; for this measure was not suggested by any degree of distrust or suspicion in those individuals, but by a reasonable and proper solicitude for the interest and satisfaction of the public. With regard to the question of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, he had to state, that the proposed deposit of stock by country bankers was to form a security for all notes under five pounds which these bankers might issue, but any surplus deposit would be deemed an additional security for their other notes. As to the assertion of the right hon. gentleman with respect to the influence of the foreign loans in 1795, upon the price of bullion, he should refer to the evidence
 1253
 Lord Holland  said, he had come down to the House on Monday for the purpose of presenting some petitions, but happened to be a few minutes too late. They were against the additional duty on Leather, which he considered a most oppressive and impolitic tax, Notwithstanding the decision which had been come to in another place, he considered it his duty to lay the petitions on the table, in order that their lordships attention might be turned to the subject,
 1225
 The Earl of Liverpool  rose to propose an Address of Congratulation to the Prince Regent, on the subject, of the marriage of his royal sister, the Princess Elizabeth. He also intended to move messages of congratulation on the same event to the Queen, to the Princess Elizabeth, and to the Prince of Hesse Hombourg. It could not be necessary for him to take up the time of the House in introducing these motions with any lengthened observations, as it was not possible to conceive that they would meet with opposition from any quarter. With reference to the event itself he should only say, that it certainly must be a proper subject of congratulation, that a union had taken place with a prince of a most illustrious family, high military reputation, and who had displayed great talents in the course of the long war in which he had been engaged. The noble earl concluded by moving an Address to the Prince Regent, which he followed with motions for Messages of Congratulation to the Queen, the Princess Elizabeth, and the hereditary Prince of Hesse Hombourg.
 Mr. Wynn  presented a Petition from the Booksellers and Publishers of London and Westminster; setting forth, "That by an act passed in the 54th of his majesty, to amend the several acts for the encouragement of learning, by securing the copies and copyright of printed books to the authors of such books or their assigns, it was enacted, amongst other things, that 11 copies of the whole of every book and of every volume thereof upon the paper upon which the largest number or impression of such book should be printed for sale, together with all maps and prints belonging thereto, which from and after the passing of the said act should be printed and published, on demand thereof being made in writing to, or left at the place of abode of the publisher or publishers thereof, at any time within twelve months next after the publication thereof, under the hand of the warehouse keeper of the Company of Stationers, or the librarian, or other person thereto authorized by the persons or body politic and corporate, proprietors or managers of the libraries following,  viz. 1227 1228
 Lord Castlereagh,  in pursuance of the notice he had given, rose to make a motion on a subject on which he was convinced there was but one sentiment on both sides of the House. He was persuaded that all parties were most solicitous to offer their unanimous congratulations to his royal highness the Prince Regent and the royal family on the recent marriage of her royal highness the princess Elizabeth, with his serene highness the hereditary Prince of Hesse Hombourg; a prince whose character stood so high in Europe; who had been a distinguished soldier all his life; who had partaken in almost all the great battles by which the independence and tranquillity of Europe had been achieved, and who had exhibited in the field all those qualities which characterize a brave, zealous, and able officer. Convinced as he was that all who heard him entertained the most sincere wishes for the happiness of this illustrious pair, he should trespass no farther on the House, but merely move, "That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, to offer the dutiful congratulations of this House to his Royal Highness, on the happy nuptials of her royal highness the Princess Elizabeth, daughter of his Majesty, with his serene highness Frederick Joseph Louis Charles Augustus, landgrave and hereditary Prince of Hesse Hombourg; and to assure his Royal Highness of the sincere and heartfelt satisfaction which this House derives from a circumstance that must add so much domestic happiness to his Majesty's family."
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  rose to submit to the committee, the propositions of which he had given notice. The right hon. gentleman observed, that he had waited with great anxiety, and had postponed the discussion of the question to a period of the session as late as was consistent with the expectation of a full attendance of members, in the hope that some events might arise of a nature so decisive as to enable him either to declare to parliament that the Bank of England was so situated as to be enabled, with propriety, at once to resume cash payments, or that circumstances had taken place which left no room for doubt as to the necessity of a farther continuance of the restriction. The result of all his inquiries, however, on the subject was, that, under all the circumstances of the case, he was not able to state a case of so distinct and positive a nature; while he yet felt that he could not, with a view to the public interests and to the safety and convenience of commerce, but submit to the committee a proposition for still extending, although for a very limited period, the act of restriction. l. s. s. d. 1231 l. l. s. d., l s. d. l. s. of l. s. d. s. d. 1232 l. l. 1233 l. 1234 rentes; rentes, rentes. rentes rentes l. s. d. 1235 l 1236 * * § 1237 1238 1239 1240 1241 1242 1243 1244
 Mr. Tierney  said, that the statements of the right hon. gentleman, so far as they went, were intelligible enough. He was far, however, from being convinced by his arguments. At present he would not go into them at any length: he would only beg of the House to consider the state in which they were placed: no matter whether the proposed plan was a good one or not. It went to produce quite a new system of currency, and that in a time of peace; and this was to be done merely upon the suggestion of the chancellor of the exchequer, without any previous committee, and without examining a single witness. After the confident predictions which they had heard some time back from the right hon. gentleman they were to be now called upon to continue the Bank Restriction for another year, and to introduce a total change in the principle of private bank. paper. Upon the latter subject he would not offer any opinion: he could not trust his judgment with it at present. It seemed doubtful whether it was intended by this plan to sweep away completely the circulation of all private paper, and place it in the hands of the Bank of England, or greatly to enlarge the issue of such paper. It might lead to either of the two effects. At all events, it would throw a great hardship upon the private bankers. In the first place, their character would, after this proposal, stand tainted for the next two years. What could be the use of proposing the bill at present? The only motive he could see was, to put men upon their guard against the country bankers. He was no friend to an extended issue of their paper. They had, however, been of great service to the public,
 1245 l. l. l. l. de mor-tuis nil nisi bonum. 1246 1247 1248 1249 1250 l. 1251
 Mr. Grenfell  concurred in the sentiments which had been so ably delivered by his right hon. friend. He would not on the present occasion enter into details, but he could not refrain from making a few allusions to the many pretexts on which the restriction act had been prolonged, and which, if continued, would I have so injurious an effect upon all the property of the kingdom, and necessarily produce here the same mischiefs that such a system had uniformly produced in every country in the civilized world which was left to depend on a paper issue not convertible to a metallic currency. The right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer had stated something like three reasons for the continuance of the restriction act (that of the country banks he looked on as a minor consideration in comparison with this)—The first was, the state of foreign exchanges, and the prices of gold. Now, he recollected that in 1815 the reasons urged were, that the course of exchange was 11 per cent against us, and the price of bullion 14 per cent. But what had been done in the following year to redeem the solemn pledges made? The exchange was in 1816 in our favour; gold was only 3 per cent above par, and silver
 1252 l. l. l
 Mr. Grenfell  observed, that it was somewhat singular that a pamphlet published in 1800, and so much applauded, should only now come to be acted upon. He expressed his surprise, that although there were seven directors of the Bank present, not one of them had thought it
 1254
 Sir Ro
 1260  presented a Petition from all the cotton-spinning factories of Stockport, in favour of the Cotton Factories bill. The petition, he said, was entitled to great attention, because it came from persons well acquainted with the facts in which they desired alteration. It would show, that the masters themselves were petitioners at the bar of the House in favour of their labourers. It was signed by seven master manufacturers, the opinion of one of whom, Mr. Entwistle, was entitled to the greatest consideration, and of the rest he was persuaded, that if they believed the measure he had brought forward would tend to injure the trade, they would be the last to petition for it. It was, moreover, signed by thirteen resident clergymen, who had an opportunity of knowing the condition of the objects of it, and by not less than eight medical gentlemen. He thought the petition was of the first consequence, in showing the necessity of the measure he wished to have adopted.—The petition was then read: it purported to be from the labourers above sixteen years of age, employed in the cotton-spinning factories of Stockport, and others of that town, and stated in substance, that under the existing regulations, workmen were over-laboured, over heated, and subject to oppressive inconveniences; that the personal experience of most of the petitioners showed how injurious the system was to the constitution. It prayed that a shorter period of labour might be established, and added, that the petitioners had no expectation of relief, but from the wisdom and liberality of parliament.
 Sir R. Peel  begged it to be distinctly understood, that, to his certain knowledge, the character of the petitioners varied materially from the character given of them by the hon. baronet. They were respectable inhabitants of Stockport, professional men, and clergymen, who, observing the evils of the existing system, stepped forward to give that information which the House ought gratefully to receive. He was certainly of their opinion; having long been convinced (and he was happy to hear that his hon. friend who had last spoken entertained similar sentiments), that the hours of labour in cotton factories were protracted to an excessive length.
 Mr. Canning  said:—I am very ready Sir, to give the hon. gentleman and the House all the information in my power on this subject, although I cannot undertake to enter into any of the details respecting it. It is undoubtedly true, that the Peishwa has commenced hostilities against the forces of the East India Company. It is undoubtedly true, that in two actions fought between armies greatly disproportionate in point of number, the advantage was decidedly in favour of the company's troops. But Sir, I am happy to add, that one part of the statement refered to by the hon. gentleman, is not true, namely, that the slaughter was proportionate to the disparity of the force of the conflicting parties. We are not in possession of such returns with respect to these battles as-it would be fit to publish under the authority of government. While the possibility of doubt exists with respect to the accuracy of the- eturns, it would be highly improper to
 1265 1266
 Mr. Heworth  expressed himself extremely obliged to the right hon. gentle-man for the candid reply which he had made to his questions. He would certainly avail himself of the right hon. gentleman's kind offer of assistance, and would take an early opportunity of submitting to the House a motion on the subject.
 Lord Morpeth  thought the House much indebted to the hon. gentleman, for having called their attention to this important subject. He agreed with the hon. gentleman, in thinking that the circumstances had a very formidable appearance; and he trusted that the public would soon be put in possession of accurate information with respect to them.
 Mr. Wynn,  without entering into any argument on the question, wished merely to state, that he did not think the adoption of the bill which had been introduced by the hon. baronet, would evince any hostility to the principle, that it was generally expedient not to interfere with free labour. For on what was that principle founded? On the knowledge that, by leaving the regulation of the labour in the hands of the master, if he worked his labourer too hard, that labourer could resort to some other employment. Now this was wholly inapplicable to children of a tender age, who were placed in cotton factories, and who were necessarily at the mercy of their masters. What remedy had they if they were overworked? He did conceive, that it was in strict conformity to the principle on which the
 1263
 Mr. Wynn  suggested that the regular course was to deliver in the letter of which the noble lord complained.' Lord A. Hamilton said he had no sort of objection to do so. The letter was accordingly delivered by him to the clerk, and read.
 Mr. Wynn  said, that this was a case of direct bribery—a most serious invasion on the privileges of the House. After the letter which had been read it was impossible to deny that the offence had been committed by some one. That it was by lord Douglas no man could for a moment suppose, after the positive denial which that nobleman had directed to be given on his part to the charge. But that the offence had been committed by Ferguson, the letter indisputably proved; and yet the right hon. gentleman sat down, saying, that he would oppose the motion, and that it was impossible, but that every gentleman must be satisfied—and why?—Because lord Douglas denied that he had given Ferguson any authority. After all, this was no more than the denial of the person accused; and, because the person accused denied the charge, therefore the Commons of England were to rest satisfied, though in possession of an indisputable proof that their privileges had been infringed [Hear, hear!]. He would not detain the House by quoting precedents. In 1779, when a complaint of this kind was made against the duke of Chan-dos, the question was referred to a committee of privileges. The same thing was done in the case of the mayor and corporation of Oxford. If the present case was passed over, it would be the first instance of such a neglect of what was due to the honour of the House. The course for the House to adopt was, either to refer the case to a committee of privileges to take evidence, or if it should be thought more convenient, to order the party at once to the bar of the House. But the House would be totally forgetful of their own dignity, if they did not inquire who the guilty persons were, and if, after discovering the offenders, they did not prosecute them with the greatest severity [Hear, hear!].
 The Lord Advocate  of Scotland observed, that according to the notice of the noble lord, the subject of his motion was, the interference of a peer with the election of a member of that House. Now, he would put it to the House, whether the noble lord in his statement, had brought
 1274 1275
 The Lord Advocate  of Scotland, in explanation, said, he had been totally misrepresented by his hon. and learned friend. He had never meant to quarrel with the present motion, because it was different from the notice, but because it fell short of it.
 Mr. Bennet  wished to say a few words in behalf of a class of officers whom he could not but consider very hardly treated. He meant those of the drivers' corps. After very long service they had been put upon half pay, without any chance of being ever again called upon to act. There was a captain Humphries, who had served for three and twenty years in a most meritorious way, and in different parts of the world. After all this he was reduced to 6 s. d. 1281
 Mr. Bennet  contended, that the case was entirely anomalous. It was hard for a person who had served 22years to retire with 6 s. d.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that there were a great number of situations in which ministers were placed, in which it was very difficult and delicate to know how to regulate their conduct. In the present instance, it was a matter of doubt whether the officers in question should be favoured beyond the usual rule of the service. If the case, as had been stated, was one in which a promise had been made, that would, no doubt, be fulfilled: but if the merits and services of the persons concerned were the foundation of their claim, he was sure the noble lord on whom such cases depended for decision would give the matter every consideration that could be given to such affairs. He submitted whether it would not be better to allow the case, after what had been stated, to be considered by the noble lord, and to allow him to decide on it as its merits demanded. It would still be equally open to be brought forward at any future period in the way of address, or in any other way that might appear proper.
 Mr. Bennet  thought there was no reason why the officers of artillery drivers should not have the advantages of other officer?. They were discharged, and it was said to them "there is an end of you." Their case was an entire anomaly; and unless the hon. gentleman could produce any instance of officers retiring without a chance of returning to service, he had adduced no case in point.
 Lord Cochrane  expressed a hope, that justice would be done to these officers.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the accounts which he had laid on the table would explain what the amount of the saving last year had been. As to the money which came from the Saving banks, it was not at all connected with the sum mentioned by the hon. baronet. It was quite a separate account. The bill was read a first time.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he was of opinion, as he had always been, that it would not be consistent with the honour or welfare of the country, to make itself a partner in any profits which the Bank of England happened to derive from the restriction.
 Sir C. Monck  spoke against the principle and details of the measure. He said, he could not see any necessity for its adoption, and he protested against the doctrine, that no surgeon should be allowed to practice, who did not submit to an examination by, had not a testimonial from, and, did not pay a fee to, some corporation of surgeons. The adoption of such a measure would, in his view, be peculiarly inconsistent with justice and sound judgment, as well as with he conduct of that House, which had recently abolished the restrictions imposed by the laws of queen Elizabeth, upon the subject of trade. He was not among those who deprecated the policy of the laws which subjected to a pecuniary penalty such as set up particular trades, without servings an apprenticeship to those trades; for such laws were, in his opinion, necessary to secure to society persons of competent skill in the mechanical professions. But it had become the fashion to deprecate those laws, and therefore they were repealed about two years ago. Would it, then, become parliament, after acceding to that repeal, upon the ground of removing undue restrictions, to adopt a measure which proposed to invest certain corporations with the power of deciding, who should or should not practise surgery? Such restrictions could only be tolerated upon the ground that it was necessary to provide against unskilful practitioners; but no such necessity was shown to exist; and if it existed, how did this bill propose to remedy the evil? Why, merely by making it obligatory upon persons to submit to an examination before certain colleges. But what guarantee did such examination afford to the public for competent practitioners The usual examination before the college of surgeons was, he was assured, conducted in a very loose and slovenly manner. Then as to the
 1287 l. l.
 Mr. W. Dundas  stated, that the fee required by the college of surgeons of Edinburgh, from a person desiring to practise as a licenciate, was only 5 l. l.
 Captain Waldegrave  stated a case which came to his knowledge, and which served, in his opinion, to show the necessity of making some provision that the people should not be exposed to the danger of incompetent medical practitioners. This case had occurred in his own neighbourhood, where, upon the regular surgeons refusing to inoculate for the small pox, conceiving vaccination much preferable, some people were, through prejudice and imposition, induced to apply to chemists, and other unqualified persons, who inoculated for the small pox, and the consequence was, that the contagion spread throughout the country—that, indeed, no less than 800 persons in one parish were infected by it.
 Mr. Peel  reprobated the idea of legislating upon a single fact, however respectable the authority by whom authenticated. The bill professed to be one merely to regulate the practice of surgery; yet a line or two after it stated, without
 1288 1289 l. l.
 Sir J. Newport  opposed the bill, on the ground of its destroying the only check that now existed against an improper system of professional practice. It would destroy all competition. The examination would be a mere formality. The only object would be the fee.
 Mr. Courtenay  said he was not disposed to press its adoption against the sense of the House.
 Mr. D. Gilbert,  though he considered the present measure objectionable, thought some plan should be devised to guard against those abuses which were admitted to be too general.
 General Hart  declared it the most exceptionable measure ever submitted to parliament. Its framers might with equal propriety have demanded, that the surgeons of the united kingdom should all pass through a certain turnpike and pay toll, in order to qualify them for the exercise of their functions, as to regulate their efficiency by such a test as was now proposed.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  rose to move for leave to bring in a bill on a subject, in his judgment, of the highest importance. It had for its object to procure employment for the millions of persons in the united kingdom, particularly in Ireland, who were now unhappily without any means of exerting their industry. In that stage of the measure, and in so thin a House, he would not trespass on its attention by entering into a statement of the merits of the measure. In Ireland it had been for
 1290
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that they would pay the same duty as was now paid, though the form would be different. It might perhaps be convenient, to allow a certain sum to be paid as compensation for the stamp duty. The convenience of this would be, that, as the sum to be issued by each banker would be well ascertained, any banker might change his notes as often as they became dirty, or worn out, without additional expense.
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, he should be glad to find that the in-
 1285
 The Chancellor of the Exchequer  said, that the subject mentioned by the hon. gentleman would be proper for the committee. Great difficulty had been found in making any distinction between the different public stocks; but he should be happy to receive any communication on the subject.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  having changed the form accordingly, and moved for the House to resolve itself into a committee,
 The Lord Advocate  disclaimed any idea of imputing ignorance of the laws of England and Ireland against the right hon. baronet, but he was not acquainted with the law of Scotland. It was admitted by the legislature itself that statutes in Scotland had fallen into abeyance. One of the objects of the bill was, to give the burgesses at large a power to compel the magistrates, under a penalty, to lodge their accounts in the exchequer.
 Mr. Alderman Wood  thought his hon. friend had certainly mistaken the nature of the measure. It was not a bill that the great capitalists of this country ought to be alarmed at; and the House could deter-
 1291
 Mr. D. Gilbert  considered the measure to be one which would affect a fundamental principle in our commercial system, and therefore it would require the most deliberate attention of the House.
 The Lord Advocate  of Scotland said, he believed it was generally admitted that there were defects in controlling the expenditure of the corporations of the royal Scotch burghs. It was therefore his object to move for leave to bring in a bill to regulate the mode of accounting for the revenues of those burghs, and for the better regulation and control of the undue expenditure thereof. The measure he had in contemplation was one which would partially revive the obsolete laws of the country, which called the magistrates to account for the revenues in the court of exchequer. In addition to this, it would impose upon them an obligation to submit their, accounts annually, and that they should also be exposed to the burgesses to consider of the expenditure; and if they saw grounds of an improvident expenditure, they should have a right to complain. But this might not in certain cases prevent
 1292
 The Lord Advocate  said, that no one was responsible for this measure but himself. He had not submitted it to the Scotch judges, but after he had made a draft of it, he had consulted those persons from whose advice he was likely to derive assistance in order that it might not come before the House in a crude shape. He never said that he had long contemplated a measure of this kind. What he had observed was, that he had it in contemplation in the course of the session, to introduce such a bill. With respect to his doubt, that certain laws in Scotland were not in abeyance, he should only reassert the fact —[Hear, hear, from sir John Newport and lord A. Hamilton]. He could excuse the right hon. baronet, for being ignorant that by the law of Scotland statutes from desuetude might cease to have operation. But he could not extend the same indulgence to the noble lord who was a legislator for Scotland [Lord A. Hamilton, in explanation, said he had never disputed
 1294
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  congratulated the House, and still more particularly the country with which he was immediately connected, that at length, after numerous petitions had been presented, after various grievances had been stated, the learned lord admitted, what be fore he had uniformly denied, that the royal burghs had very just reason to complain of serious injuries. Scotland had now, for about thirty years, been requesting this boon of the House, and, during the whole progress of that time it had been denied that any evil, such as the learned lord's measure was intended to redress, did in reality exist. Last session the learned lord seemed to deny that there was any necessity whatever for the House interfering on this subject; and he could not now, after what had fallen from the learned lord, avoid expressing his joy, that Scotland had at length a prospect of receiving justice at his hands, and at the hands of that House. Of the nature of the bill itself he would not presume to judge; but the view the learned lord took of the subject was so different from that which he and the petitioners entertained, that he feared but partial relief would be derived from the measure. The petitioners complained, not merely that they had no control over the expenditure of the revenues of the royal burghs, but that they had no voice whatever in the election of those very magistrates who disposed of their property. That grievance, he supposed, the learned lord meant to leave wholly untouched. He regretted that the learned lord had so long delayed his measure. He (lord A. Hamilton) on the first day of the session had stated his intention of calling the House to a consideration of the subject at large; but he gave up his intention, in consequence of the learned
 1293
 Lord A. Hamilton  begged to offer a few words in reply. He said he was not aware of having stated this as a party question, nor of having stated it unfairly. He had brought it forward on general grounds, as a high breach of the privileges of that House; and the right hon. gentleman opposite must feel some disappointment that the House had not got rid of the question on the simple denial of the noble lord. He was not aware of having departed from the notice he had originally given, in the motion he had this evening proposed for the adoption of the House. He had stated on the former night, that the matter of charge regarded the interference of a noble peer with the privileges of that House, but he had never said, that the matter rested exclusively with that noble peer. This charge had been attempted to be rebutted by an assertion, that at a former period of his (lord A. Hamilton's) life, he had had no objection to aristocratical influence, and that in fact it had been exercised for him. To this he would reply, that he was not answerable for the conduct of others, and that whatever occurred so far back as fifteen or sixteen years ago, should have been made matter of complaint at the time, instead of being now raked up to defend other acts of impropriety. There was, however, a great difference between the character of the two acts alluded to. The mere personal request or solicitation of an individual, bore no resemblance to such an influence as that of which he now complained, which was palpably corrupt, and went to destroy the best rights of the electors. The lord advocate had said, that he had exercised no influence, because he had none to tender —this was certainly a very sufficient reason. He had also alluded to the manner in which electors were made in Scotland, but he at the same time well knew that there was no other mode of contesting a county election in Scotland but by creat-
 1280 l.
 Lord Archibald Hamilton  rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to bring before the House his complaint of a breach of its privileges, by a member of the other House of Parliament He regretted extremely, being obliged to discharge so painful a task as that, which his duty imposed upon him on the present occasion, but he had in this business guarded himself from listening to anything, but that which could be sufficiently proved to make out a case to the House, founded on authority which could not be questioned. Such a case he would now submit to them, as must shield him from the slightest imputation of being excited by personal feelings alone. It would not be denied by any hon. gentleman who heard him, that the privileges and the independence of that House, were the sources of all the national power and prosperity. It was to secure those privileges and to support that independence, that he came forward on the present occasion; and therefore, whatever might be the result of his motion, he hoped he should appear to the House to have only discharged his duty in bringing the subject under their consideration. Frequently had the House of Commons been reproached for the manner in which it was constituted; and the best answer that could be made to the charges advanced against the purity of the House in many of the petitions that had been pre-
 1267 1268 * 1269 "Glasgow, May No. Miller-street. "Dear Sir;—According to your desire, I communicated to lord Douglas your wish to have a situation under government for your young friend Mr. Dykes; and I am authorized to state, that if you support his lordship's views in politics, at the first election, his lordship will secure an eligible situation for your friend, which will be of great advantage to him; and as you are independent of the Hamilton family, I think you should accept of lord Douglas's offer. If you have not made a promise to lord Archibald Hamilton, I think you have good grounds to get clear off from what you mentioned regarding your vote, for you certainly have not been well used. "If an application is made to you from the Hamilton family to promise your vote, I think you should not grant it, until I see you in Glasgow, when I will tell you all about the matter. Sir Alexander Cochrane is not at home just now, otherwise I would have written you more particularly: have the goodness not to mention this matter until the whole is arranged. I will write you when the noddy is painted, and I hope to have the pleasure of seeing you and Mrs. Dykes at Glasgow.—I am, dear Sir, your most obedient servant, THOMAS FERGUSON." (Addressed) William Dykes, esq., of Lambhill, by Strathaven. 1270 1271 1272
 Mr. Bathurst  said, that the question before the House at that moment was, the conduct of a private individual, who did appear to have committed a very high breach of privilege. The question for the consideration of the House was, not whether it ought to be passed over without any notice, but in what way it ought to be noticed. With respect to the mode in which this individual ought to be punished, the noble lord said that he had not made up his mind. The general mode of proceeding in case of a breach of privilege was, to refer it to a committee of privileges. Another course was, that which had been adopted in the case of the bishop of Worcester, in the reign of queen Anne, in 1702. In that case Mr. Lloyd, the son of the bishop was also complained of, and the House, after hearing the charges against them, ordered that the son should be prosecuted by the attorney-general. * * 1279
 Mr. Brougham  would appeal to those who heard what had originally fallen from his right hon. and learned friend, to say whether he had not stated it correctly.
 Mr. Brougham  said, that among the old sayings, for which a right hon. gentleman who spoke early in the debate seemed to have a strong predilection, there was one, that there was nothing new under the sun. But, notwithstanding such high authority, he would venture to say, that he had heard that night such a code of the privileges of the House, from
 1276 1277 primâa facie 1278
 Mr Howorth  rose and said;—I am desirous, Sir, of putting some questions, on a very interesting and important subject, to the right hon. gentleman opposite, who is at the head of the administration of India. It has been stated to the public, in the daily prints, that two battles have been already fought between the company's troops and the Mahratta forces. It has been said, that the Peishaw, with a large army, amounting to 40,000 men, attacked a body of the company's troops, which had been admitted into his territory in perfect amity, and for purposes of mutual advantage. I am not aware what could have been the motive for this sudden act of hostility on the part of a chief with whom the company had been for so many years on terms of friendship, but the statement is, that with the army which I have described, he did actually attack a body of 4,000 subsidiary troops in the service of the company. This gallant little army is said to have completely repulsed its assailants, and its success is in a great treasure attributed to the bravery and skill of its officers; but in consequence of the great disparity of numbers in the contending parties, the conflict is described to have been severe, and the slaughter to have been in proportion to that disparity. A few days afterwards, it is said that the company's army, having received a reinforcement, attacked the Mahrattas in their turn, defeated the Peishwa, and not possession of Poonah, his capital. It is likewise stated, that unfortunately two British officers fell into the hands of the Peishwa, and that they were
 1264
 Sir James Graham  thought that the House would not attach as much importance to the petition as the hon. baronet had, when they were informed of the real character of the petitioners. He would inform them, that these petitioners were no other, for the most part, than a set of idle, discontented, discarded, and good-for-nothing workmen, who conceived that they did too much, when in employment, for the wages which they received. He knew them to be of the description which he had stated, and he had no doubt, that if the bill before the House were carried in the present session, these men would endeavour next year to have a bill carried to limit their hours of employment to a much smaller number than that which was fixed by the bill. He thought that manufactories and the. workmen employed in
 1261
 Mr. Alderman Atkins  observed, that the Bank of England was now in a more flourishing state than it had ever before been. But it would never have arrived at that state, if it had been liable to be called upon, at any time for cash payments. If, then, such confidence was placed in the Bank of England, a proportionate degree of confidence should be placed in private banks; for the Bank of England was no more than a company of private bankers on a large scale. He hoped that such time would be taken on the discussion of the present bill as would enable the House and the country to understand fully what was its nature, and what would be its effects.
 Mr. Curwen  said, he was averse from granting the prayer of the petition. The petitioners asked that their time of labour might be reduced to ten hours and a half: if that was conceded, the next prayer would be, that it might be brought down to nine. The House should remember, that if the principle were once adopted in the case of the cotton-spinners, there was not a trade in the kingdom that would not desire the same interference and the same reduction. He thought an alteration was advisable; but he verily believed it would come at no great distance from the parties interested themselves. He believed the masters, if left to themselves, would shortly reduce the hours to twelve.
 Mr. Butterworth  said, that he knew many persons in the north of England, who were in no way interested in cotton factories, but who were unequivocally of opinion, that unless some decided measure were adopted, with respect to the rising generation, the lower classes of the community would, in a few years, become a most degenerate race of human beings.
 Mr. Finlay  was well aware of the evils which were attendant upon protracted hours of labour in manufactories, but he was convinced they were not confined to the cotton manufactories alone. In several others there were younger children employed, and for a longer period of the day. He should state to the House what
 1262
 Mr. Finlay  was of opinion that the present bill would be of no use at all as a remedy against the evil complained of. When a burgess was told that his remedy was in a court of law, he would be very apt to say the remedy was worse than the disease.
 Mr. Finlay  knew that a similar practice prevailed abroad, but here he was convinced that it would be attended with the greatest possible disadvantage to trade and commerce. He hoped the worthy alderman would so separate the two objects, that if what related to England were rejected, that which related to Ireland might remain.
 Mr. Grenfell  said, he did not mean to oppose the motion of his hon. friend, which notwithstanding seemed a most extraordinary one; for thus promoting the employment of the poor was neither more nor less than doing away with all the existing laws for the protection of trade and commerce, and particularly with that of the 6th Geo. 1st for preventing the formation of joint stock companies. If he understood the bill at all, it was to encourage such companies, by individuals subscribing a certain sum, and releasing themselves from all responsibility that should exceed the sum they subscribed. Such a measure would strike at the root of the whole commercial system of this country. He knew that in many parts of the continent such a system was adopted, but it was so contrary to the system on which this country had ever acted, that he should feel it his duty to oppose the proposition in every stage.
 Mr. Grenfell  observed, that 100 l. l. l.
 Mr. Grenfell  replied, that if its object was only to amend the existing laws of Ireland, he should not give it opposition; but would it not go to the extent of allowing manufacturers and traders in this country to deposit any sum they pleased, being liable only for what they advanced?
 Mr. Grenfell  said, that as he considered this a measure for establishing a permanent paper currency in time of peace, he wished to know whether it was in the contemplation of the chancellor of the exchequer to take any steps for securing to the public any share of the vast profits which the Batik of England received from this system?
 Mr. Benson  thought the case of those officers was very hard. They could not get into any other corps, and after a promise had been made, that they should retire upon full pay, was it right to deprive them of it? The officers to whom he alluded were many of them on foreign service at the time of their reduction. He hoped the committee would take their situation into consideration, and make some provision for them, as they suffered much hardship from having been reduced to half pay.
 Mr. Benson  concurred in the sentiments expressed by his hon. friend. It was too hard that gentlemen who had served so long should be obliged to retire upon half pay, without any chance of being called again into service.
 Mr. Ward  said, that the corps of artillery drivers had increased during the late war to 7,000 men, who were divided into twelve troops, with twelve captains and other officers. They had deserved well of their country, and distinguished themselves on every occasion, as far as the nature of their service allowed. It was not, therefore, for any fault of theirs that they were reduced, but they had experienced the same fate as the army. Eight troops had been reduced out of the twelve, and put on half pay. When, after the campaign of 1815, a fresh organization of the remaining four troops had taken place, as they were still retained, full pay was given to the officers who retired, and from that arrangement there had been no deviation. If captain Humphries was in those four troops, and did not receive his full pay, then he was not in the situation in which it was intended he should be placed, and he might not only claim his full pay, but its arrears. But if he belonged to the eight troops which had been reduced, then he was not entitled to more than his half pay.
 Mr. R. Ward  said, he would detain the House but a very few minutes in introducing the Ordnance Estimates. A variety of regulations and retrenchments had taken place within the last year in the department of the master-general, and there was only a single addition in one particular branch. The general outline of the establishment for the current year, as compared with the peace establishment of 1788, presented only an augmentation of 47000 l. l. s. d.
 Mr. Ward  differed in opinion with the hon. gentleman upon this class of officers. There was no intention it was true, of recalling them. There might be a chance of it, but there was no right. They knew this when they entered the service. The ground of his objection, however, to allow them full pay arose from considerations of finance. The case of the Irish artillery, mentioned by the hon. gentleman went against himself. There were two batallions of Irish artillery. The
 1282 l. l.
 Mr. Ward  was extremely anxious to do any thing he could on the subject; but with respect to a promise, it was in his opinion impossible that any could have been made, except with regard to the four troops he had mentioned. It was true that they could not return to any other military service; but certainly, no promise had been given to them. If
 1283
 Mr. W. Dundas  said, he thought that after the correspondence which had taken place between the noble lord opposite and lord Douglas, the noble lord might have spared his motion.—If he could not satisfy the noble lord on the subject, he was sure he should be able to satisfy the House; for he was desired by lord Douglas to declare to the House, upon his honour, that he never did give any order to any person to make any such promise as was mentioned in the letter which had been read to the House. He was desired, too, by that noble lord to state, that he was sure the House was too generous to doubt this unqualified and express denial, and too just to entertain any hasty and un founded suspicion.—He therefore conceived that after having made this statement by the desire of lord Douglas, the House could not agree to the motion now before it, without implying a distrust in the word of honour of that nobleman. Having done with the conduct of lord Douglas, he wished to say a word or two respecting the conduct of the noble mover himself. There was an old saying, of which every day's experience proved the truth—that a man who lived in a glass house should beware of throwing stones. What had the noble lord's own conduct been? Had the privileges of the House never been violated in his own case? When the noble lord first came forward as a candidate for the county of Lanark, he was backed by no mean interest, by no common individual. To further his
 1273
 Sir C. Monck  reminded the House, that at the beginning of the session the chancellor of the exchequer had stated, that after defraying all the expenses of the last year, there would be an excess of revenue amounting to three millions'. The right hon. gentleman had now acknowledged, that the excess of the revenue, which might truly be called a sinking fund, was 1,800,000 l. l.
 The Speaker  observed, that the motion could not be received. The course to be pursued by the worthy alderman was, to move for the House to resolve itself into a committee of the whole House on the subject, and to let a resolution to the effect proposed by the worthy alderman grow out of that committee.
 Sir J. Newport  said, he was confident that no notes would be issued by country bankers, on the conditions prescribed by the bill, and that the consequence would be to drive them out of circulation, to the benefit of the Bank of England, which many would think had without such a measure, influence enough in the country. He wished to know whether it was proposed that the notes issued should pay any duty?
 Sir J. Newport  hoped the House would, at all events, entertain this bill; for he would take upon himself to say that such defects had been found in the acts of the 22nd and 26th of the king, that they had ceased to be operative. It was peculiarly necessary for Ireland, that the principles of some such measure should be reduced to practice, and by the means of capital— the only thing wanted to give employment to the mass of unemployed poor.
 Sir John Newport  hoped, that after the charge of gross ignorance made against him by the learned lord, not for what he had said, but for what he meant to say, he should be excused for offering a few words to the House. The expression of his countenance, for that was the only expression that had escaped him, was excited to some astonishment at hearing it stated by the learned lord, that a statute remaining on the Statute book might, under certain circumstances, be considered as not a law of the country. Notwithstanding the decision of the judges, to which allusion
 1295
 Sir J. Newport,  alluding to what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman the other day, respecting the total disappearance of the 2,500,000 l.
 Mr. Brougham,  in moving the second reading of the bill appointing commissioners to inquire into the application of
 1298
 Sir Samuel Romilly  said, he held in his hands a petition, signed by 120 persons, who described themselves as Burgesses of the Royal Burgh of Whithorn in Scotland. This petition, it was stated, contained a very accurate picture of most of the Royal Burghs in Scotland. From the magistrates and town council, who chose the delegates, by whom the representatives were returned, not being elected by the burgesses, but by one another, it was a perfect mockery to say, that the elective franchise was enjoyed by the burgesses. The petitioners stated, that although by the charter of the Burgh, the magistrates and town council ought to be elected out of the inhabitants of the Burgh, yet it so happened, that at present five only out of the eighteen of their magistrates and council were inhabitants. The petitioners stated, that they were not desirous of any innovations, but they complained of the abuses which had crept into the Burgh system; and they appealed to a peculiar statute, in the teeth of which
 1299 1300
