9[8***7[65***[4 addressing himself to Mr. Dyson, deputy to the clerk of the House (who standing up, pointed to him, and then sat down) spoke to the following effect:9[8***7[65***[4The Right Hon. Robert Peel,
11[10 said:—Sir, when I consider the importance of the situation of Speaker —when I reflect on the abilities necessary to fill it effectively, and the knowledge both of the law and the constitution, which is requisite to enable an individual entrusted with the office satisfactorily to discharge his high duties—I feel that a great difficulty exists in finding an individual competent to so arduous an undertaking. The gentleman who has just been proposed by my right hon. friend, appears to me to possess in a very eminent degree, all the qualifications necessary for the important office in question. In addition to the high, but merited encomiums which have been bestowed upon him by my right hon. friend, may be noticed the great practical knowledge of its arduous duties which he will bring with him to the chair, the patient attention with which, during the short time that he filled it in the last parliament, he listened to every thing which was said on either side of the House, and the impartial decisions he had given on those occasions, when, in the heat of animated discussion, the accustomed rules of debate were supposed to be violated. On all
11[10Lord Clive
15***[14 then spoke to the following effect:—Sir; In rising to move the adjournment of this House, I cannot refrain from availing myself of the opportunity of congratulating, not so much you, Sir; as the House itself, on the choice Which it has just made of a member to preside over its deliberations. The various and important functions belonging, so accurately and eloquently described, that not one word more need be said on that subject. What we have just heard from you, Sir, is sufficient to prove how
15***[14Mr. Canning
[12 said:—Sir; I do not conceive that I should discharge my duty were I to omit expressing my warm approbation of the present motion. Let it be remembered, as no small tribute to the talents and high character of the right hon. gentleman, that he was in the last parliament called upon to supply the place of a person whose great experience in the chair, whose learning, comprehension, and acuteness, rendered him justly formidable to any successor. And let it also be remembered, that he so closely followed the steps of the distinguished person I allude to, as to rival him in a proper and conscientious discharge of the duties of his high and important office. This resemblance of character is, in my opinion, the highest panegyric which can
[12Mr. Barnett
"In offering ray most respectful and cordial thanks to the House, for having conferred upon me the highest honour which it has in its power to bestow, I have only, with the utmost sincerity to assure the House, that I will strain every never to justify the choice it has made, by a strict, steatly faithful, and impartial discharge of the duties entrusted to me."13 stood up in his place, and said:—"In offering ray most respectful and cordial thanks to the House, for having conferred upon me the highest honour which it has in its power to bestow, I have only, with the utmost sincerity to assure the House, that I will strain every never to justify the choice it has made, by a strict, steatly faithful, and impartial discharge of the duties entrusted to me."13Mr. Manners Sutton
17 addressed the House as follows:17The Speaker
 then proceeded, as the first Commoner, to take the oaths. The other members were then called up to the bar in alphabetical order, according to the counties they represented, and took the oaths.The Speaker
 said, that the hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Macdonald) had alluded to a variety of topics, on which he meant not now to dilate, as they would probably, in the course of the session, be regularly brought under the consideration of parliament. But one observation had fallen from him, which, holding the situation he did, he could not suffer to pass unnoticed. The hon. gentleman had asserted, that one of his majesty's ministers had stated, that the Prince Regent had delegated to him a discretionary power, as to the extending or withholding the prerogative of mercy. The fact was merely this:—A certain petition was sent, through the noble Secretary of State for the Home Department, to the Prince Regent, at Brighton; and the answer sent back, in this particular case, was, "he might act in the matter in the mode most consonant to his feelings and judgment.' It was only in that particular case, which had been before well considered by the cabinet ministers then in town—which had been investigated in the privy council, before the Prince Regent—and on which advice had been given to his royal highness, which advice he had been pleased to adopt.Mr. Clive
61Sir;—I lost not a moment in transmitting to the secretary of state for the home department the memorial of the bankers of Liverpool, in behalf of the unfortunate men upon whom the sentence of the law was to be exe-London, Dec.(Copy) London, Dec.Right Hon. Geo. Canning, &c. &c.(Signed) SIDMOUTH.I have the honour to be, Sir, &c.A similar petition from another quarter has been transmitted to his Royal Highness by me since his Royal Highness has been at Brighton: and I have been honoured by his Royal High-ness's authority to act in this matter in the mode most consonant to my own feelings and judgment. It would therefore be unnecessary (even if time permitted) to dispatch the present petition to Brighton; and I am sorry to inform you that I cannot perceive any grounds upon which I can, consistently with my sense of public duty, recommend the present convicts as fit objects of the royal mercy.Sir;—I have this moment received, by a special messenger, your letter of this afternoon, containing the petition of nine bankers of the town of Liverpool to his royal highness the Prince Regent, praying for a respite of the three unfortunate men who are condemned to be executed to-morrow morning at the Old Bailey, for the crime of uttering forged Banknotes.eight o'clock.1818, eight o'clock.th Dec.Richmond Park,*th Dec.Richmond Park,** explained. He said, that having seen the answer to the petition to which he had alluded, he had thought it his indispensable duty, as a member of parliament, addressing the House on the first day of the session, not to let such an infringement of the first and most essential right of the subject to pass by without animadversion. The hon. gentleman, the under secretary of state, had asserted, that the petition in question was sent to Brighton, and an answer obtained. When the hon. gentleman heard the official answer which had been made on the subject, he would allow that he had been mistaken. The petition was signed by nine very respectable inhabitants of Liverpool, in behalf of a man under sentence of death for uttering forged notes. It was transmitted to the right hon. George Canning, the member for Liverpool, by whom it was sent to the Secretary of State for the Home Department. With the permission of the House he would read the answer which was made by the noble viscount—[Mr. Macdonald here read the letter of lord Sidmouth to Mr. Canning, of which an authentic copy will be found subjoined61Sir;—I lost not a moment in transmitting to the secretary of state for the home department the memorial of the bankers of Liverpool, in behalf of the unfortunate men upon whom the sentence of the law was to be exe-London, Dec.(Copy) London, Dec.Right Hon. Geo. Canning, &c. &c.(Signed) SIDMOUTH.I have the honour to be, Sir, &c.A similar petition from another quarter has been transmitted to his Royal Highness by me since his Royal Highness has been at Brighton: and I have been honoured by his Royal High-ness's authority to act in this matter in the mode most consonant to my own feelings and judgment. It would therefore be unnecessary (even if time permitted) to dispatch the present petition to Brighton; and I am sorry to inform you that I cannot perceive any grounds upon which I can, consistently with my sense of public duty, recommend the present convicts as fit objects of the royal mercy.Sir;—I have this moment received, by a special messenger, your letter of this afternoon, containing the petition of nine bankers of the town of Liverpool to his royal highness the Prince Regent, praying for a respite of the three unfortunate men who are condemned to be executed to-morrow morning at the Old Bailey, for the crime of uttering forged Banknotes.eight o'clock.1818, eight o'clock.th Dec.Richmond Park,*th Dec.Richmond Park,**Mr. Macdonald
63[62P. S.—I ought, perhaps, to mention to you, that your packet, by some accident, did not come to my hands till near four o'clock yesterday. The memorial was then dispatched by a special messenger to Richmond; the delay (as lord Sidmouth's letter shows) was of no consequence, though it was very distressing that in this instance it should have occurred. But I earnestly advise you, in any case requiring immediate dispatch, in which you may wish to employ the intervention of my service with any of the departments of state, to address the original memorial to the department itself, apprising me by the same post that you have done so, and furnishing me with a copy of the paper. G. C.Jon. Moss, esq. GEORGE CANNING.I have the honour to be, Sir, &c.cuted this morning. Inclosed is a copy of Lord Sidmouth's answer to my letter, I am grieved that the circumstances of the case were such as to preclude compliance with the prayer of your memorial., as his name was implicated in this transaction, wished to be indulged with a few words upon it, trusting that if the debate on the main question should proceed, he would not be precluded from subsequently addressing the House. He thought the hon. gentleman who had just spoken was completely mistaken as to the degree of discretion vested in the noble Secretary of State, although he allowed that the letter which he had just read appeared to be an accurate copy of that which he (Mr. C.) had received, and which he would have brought to the House could he have anticipated the introduction of the subject. The circumstances of the transaction were these:—the case of the unfortunate men had, by the Recorder's report, been brought under the notice of his Royal Highness in full council many days before. Every circumstance, as well as the various petitions and representations respecting it, had been most anxiously considered; and after the fullest deliberation, and on the advice honestly, though with great pain, given by every counsellor present, the sentence of the law was directed to take its course. In the interval between that day and the day of execution, many petitions were presented in behalf of the par-
63[62P. S.—I ought, perhaps, to mention to you, that your packet, by some accident, did not come to my hands till near four o'clock yesterday. The memorial was then dispatched by a special messenger to Richmond; the delay (as lord Sidmouth's letter shows) was of no consequence, though it was very distressing that in this instance it should have occurred. But I earnestly advise you, in any case requiring immediate dispatch, in which you may wish to employ the intervention of my service with any of the departments of state, to address the original memorial to the department itself, apprising me by the same post that you have done so, and furnishing me with a copy of the paper. G. C.Jon. Moss, esq. GEORGE CANNING.I have the honour to be, Sir, &c.cuted this morning. Inclosed is a copy of Lord Sidmouth's answer to my letter, I am grieved that the circumstances of the case were such as to preclude compliance with the prayer of your memorial.Mr. Canning
55[5453[5251boughtbrought[5049[4847[46 said, he could by no
55[5453[5251boughtbrought[5049[4847[46Mr. Macdonald
41[4039[3837[36 rose and spoke to the following effect:—I should indeed, Sir, present myself to your notice on this occasion with peculiar diffidence and embarrassment, did I not most sanguinely hope that, however inadequate my efforts may prove to engage the attention of the House, the same unanimous sentiments may: be found to pervade his Majesty's Commons—those of pride and satisfaction in their country's calm peaceful joy, and of unbounded duty and attachment to that presiding wisdom and royal authority, from whence has proceeded the gracious Speech we have now heard delivered to us by the Lords Commissioners, so ex-
41[4039[3837[36Mr. Brownlow
59[5857[56 said:—The subjects recommended to our attention from the throne, have already been discussed by the hon. gentlemen who opened the debate, so amply, as to require, and so ably, as to admit of, no additional comment or illustration; I shall, therefore, content myself with briefly stating to the House my reasons for supporting the Address; in which I should have silently concurred, if my honourable relation had not clogged his assent, with so profuse a variety of
59[5857[56Mr. Sinclair
 said, it was not his intention to oppose the motion, or to detain the House with any observations of his own, after the very able speech which had been delivered by his hon. friend behind him. His object in now rising, was merely to observe, that he wished it to be understood that by consenting to the Address he did not bar himself from all possibility of entering, at a future period, on the subjects alluded to in it. There were several things in the Speech—and in the latter part of it, more particularly, doctrines were laid down which he could only assent to with considerable modifications,—he meant what was said respecting the prosperity of the country. While that blot on our credit, the Bank paper, continued on its present footing, he could not consider the country in a sound state. It might be perhaps rather irregular, but he wished to take as early an opportunity as possible of giving notice, that on Tuesday the 2d of February, it was his intention to move for the appointment of a committee to inquire into the state of Public Credit, and particularly with reference to the Bank Paper system.Mr. Tierney
45[4443[42 rose and said:—In seconding, Sir, the Address, which has been proposed with so much ability by the honourable member who has just sat down, I cannot but feel how absolutely necessary it is for me to put in my claim to the indulgence of the House, and express a hope that its liberality will be extended to one who stands so much in need of it. Many of the observations it was my intention to make, having very naturally been anticipated by the hon.
45[4443[42Mr. William Peel
 acquainted the House, that that House had been in the House of Peers, where the Lords Commissioners had delivered a Speech to both Houses of Parliament, of which, to prevent mistakes, he had obtained a copy. [See p. 17.] After the Speaker had read the Speech,The Speaker
65[64 wished to know from some one of the ministers of the Crown, why, upon this occasion of calling the attention of parliament by the Speech from the Throne, to all the leading questions of our external and domestic policy, the situation of the Catholics of Ireland had been, as usual, wholly omitted? If ministers would but take half the pains in establishing an intimate union with so many millions of his majesty's subjects, as they did to contract alliances with the crowned heads of Europe, they would do a much greater public good, and obtain much more real strength and security for the safety and tranquillity of the country. It was to no purpose to treat the Catholic question as one of no importance; it had been for the last eighteen years by far the most important one, and it would so continue to be, that had come before parliament. Mr. Pitt, by his negotiations with the Catholics, at the time of the Union, and by his retiring from office immediately after it, had first introduced it before a British House of Commons, and since that time it had led to the breaking up of two administrations and the dissolution of one parliament, and been connected with the
65[64Sir Henry Parnell
 said, he rose to give notice, that on an early day he should submit a motion of thanks to the marquis of Hastings and the officers and men composing the army in India, for their great and persevering bravery in conducting the late war. He gave this early notice, that there might appear no delay on the part of the House in testifying their approbation of the conduct of the noble marquis, and the bravery of those who acted under him. At the same time, he should not fix the day, till after the papers relative to the whole of the business were before the House. He did not wish, however, that his motion should be in any way a political one; but he thought it would be much better that the House should be put in possession of all the necessary documents connected with the war, before his motion came on.Mr. Canning
 presented a petition from the landholders of the county of Rutland, setting forth, that this country possessed, within itself, sufficient means of producing an abundant supply of corn of every description, for all its inhabitants, without having recourse to the aid of other countries. They prayed that a select committee might be appointed to examine into this matter; that they might be allowed to give evidence before such committee; and in case only of their being able satisfactorily to establish the premises, that such protection might be afforded to them as was enjoyed by the manufacturers, merchants, and traders, by the navigation act. The hon. baronet said, that though he presented it at the request of the parties, he was not prepared to go further in its support.—Ordered to lie on the table. Shortly after,Sir Gerard Noel
 thought it was almost necessary for him to apologise for not having, when the petition alluded to was presented, expressed his sentiments at once on this serious and most important question. As he had inadvertently lost that opportunity, he was obliged to the hon. gentleman for affording him the present, of making—what appeared to him to be of the utmost moment to make—a distinct avowal of the view in which the subject was considered by his majesty's ministers. They were decidedly of opinion, not only that it would be unadvisable to agitate such a question, but in case of any substantive proposition being brought forward, would meet it with their most determined resistance [Hear, hear!] They looked upon the last measure as one of sound legislative policy, and that it had produced all the benefits which were expected to be derived from it to the agricultural interests of the country. But they would consider it to be the height of imprudence, amounting almost to insanity, to introduce any new measure; or to revive discussions which could have no other effect than that of exciting differences and animosities from one end of the kingdom to the other.Mr. Robinson
 said, that on all occasions, when the necessity of the case required it, motions might have the precedence. Undoubtedly, the hon. member possessed the right he mentioned, and would exercise it at his own discretion.Mr. Robinson
 rose to give two notices on behalf of lord Castle-reagh. During the last session certain papers relative to the state of the various prisons throughout the kingdom had been moved for in another place. It was now intended that the same papers should be laid before this House. His noble friend intended then to move that a committee be appointed to inquire into the state and discipline of the various prisons. The other notice referred to a commission which had been appointed to inquire into abuses in public charities. When the first report of that commission should be presented, it was the intention of his noble friend to move for leave to bring in a bill granting certain extensions be the powers and objects of that commission.Mr. Canning
 concurred with the hon. baronet in thinking, that the late act had produced all the benefit to agriculture that could have been expected, or was desirable. He had heard with much satisfaction, the declaration of the same sentiments on the part of government.Mr. Long Wellesley
 moved, "That, in this present session of parliament, all Orders of the Day, set down in the Order Book for Mondays and Fridays, shall be disposed of before the House will proceed upon any Motions of which Notices shall be entered in the Order Book."The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that he considered it his duty to give an explicit answer to the first question put to him by the hon. gentleman. It had been his intention to bring forward a measure for the purpose of continuing the Restriction act, in the course of the ensuing week. A right hon. gentleman had, however, given notice of a motion on the state of public credit, as connected with the circulation of Bank paper, for a subsequent day; and it would, therefore, be more convenient to defer his own proposition till after the discussion of that motion. With respect to the second question of the hon. gentleman, the House must feel that his majesty's ministers should be free to choose the most beneficial mode of raising the supply for the year. He certainly did not at present foresee that there would exist a necessity for any additional funding; but it would at the same time be unadvisable to fetter a discretion which circumstances might render it advantageous to exercise.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
CHARLES HATCHETT.W. H. WOLLASTON.JER. HARMAN.DAVIES GILBERT.WILLIAM COURTENAY.Jan. 15, 1819.
WILLIAM CONGREVE.Soho Square, Jos. BANKS.All which is humbly submitted to your royal highness's consideration and judgment.[78Safety, or rather comparative safety, is to be sought, to a certain extent, in a combination of excellence in various particulars; but chiefly, as we conceive, in the application of a principle beyond the reach of the art of the copper-plate engraver, which in its different processes is possessed of the most formidable power of imitation. One plan, before alluded to, as apparently affording this advantage, has been, with the most liberal assistance from the Bank, for some time past in a course of trial for its greater perfection, and with a view to combination with other improvements, satisfactory experiments of which have already been effected. The result, if our expectations be not disappointed, will afford a specimen of great ingenuity in the fabric of the paper, of great excellence in the workmanship, and of a very peculiar invention, and difficult machinery in the art of printing. We confidently hope, that no long time will elapse, before we are enabled to lay before your royal highness that result; and we have every reason to know, that the bank directors are seriously anxious to adopt any plan, which shall be found, after patient examination, to be worthy
[78Our remarks however, as to imitation, do not apply to all the specimens which have been offered to us. There are a few of singular and superior merit, produced by means which it is very improbable should ever come within the reach of any single forger, and the imitation of which, except by those means, appears in a high degree difficult.We have not considered, as decisive against the merit of any particular plan, the single fact, that it may be imitated by superior art and expensive means. But when we have found, in the case of specimens submitted to us, apparently of great excellence, and the result of a combination of talent or machinery, that a very good imitation has been produced in a short time, without any peculiar expense, and by the application of means only, which are within the reach of very many artists and engravers in England; and when we reflect, to how very few hands the business of forgery appears to be at present confined, we cannot doubt that in the event of bank notes being formed from any of such specimens, an equal number at least of persons would very soon indeed be found capable of fabricating those notes to a considerable extent, and with a degree of skill quite sufficient to deceive the public. Another consideration has also had weight in inducing us to hesitate much, before we venture to recommend any specific plan. The adoption of any new form of note presenting peculiar and characteristic marks, but the imitation of which we could not confidently feel to be extremely difficult, would not only not do good, but would produce much evil; and would induce a false security, by accustoming the public to rely upon the appearance of such marks and peculiar character, rather than upon a cautious and general observation of the whole note.77Having been furnished with such information as was within our reach, relative to the subject of our inquiry, we in the next place, proceeded to examine more in detail the several projects submitted to us. In pursuing this examination, we have not indulged the vain expectation of finding any plan for a Bank note, which shall not be imitable by the skill of English artists, and we have considered that it would be utterly unsafe to rely for security against forgery, upon the employment of any process, the chief merit of which was to consist in its being kept secret; of which several have been communicated to us. Our object has been, to select some plan, of which the process, when the principles of it are understood, and the machinery and implements provided, should be simple enough to be applied without interruption to the extended operations of the Bank; and should at the same time comprise so much of superior art, as may oppose the greatest possible difficulties to the attempts of the forger, and may present such points of accuracy and excellence in workmanship to the eye of any individual using ordinary caution, as shall enable him to detect a fraud by observing the absence of those points in a fabricated note. In the mass of the schemes before us, there are, of course, very various degrees of merit; and we endeavoured to class them as well as circumstances would permit. From a very large portion of them it was obvious, upon a first inspection, that no beneficial result could be expected. Of the whole number, we find about twelve of superior skill and ingenuity, but anticipated by others of higher merit; or merely ingenious, but inapplicable in practice. And we consider nine others to be either of such originality or ingenious combination of existing means, as to have required our more particular attention; and with respect to these, much consideration has been had, and in some instances, improvements and experiments suggested and tried.[76It has been very commonly imagined, that, in consequence of the simplicity or execution in the present bank notes, the actual forgery of them was very generally and extensively practised, and that often by persons without money or talent; and this idea has formed the basis of much of the reasoning used by many of the projectors, whose plans have been under our view. The reverse of this we believe to be the fact; and from the information before us, we feel ourselves warranted in stating our opinion, that the great quantity of forged small notes which have lately been found in circulation, have all issued from a very few plates only; and that the fabrication of them is chiefly confined to one particular part of the country, and carried on by men of skill and experience, and possessed of a very considerable command of capital. Upon a cursory observation, it appeared remarkable that whilst so many utterers are constantly brought to justice, the actual forger should very rarely indeed be detected. But further investigation has led us to think, that this fact may be accounted for; and without entering into details, which upon this point it is better to avoid, we think that it results naturally from the lamentable perfection of system, to which this fraudulent traffic has been brought; and we have seen no reason to doubt that the directors of the Bank, and their officers, have used every exertion in their power to bring the actual forgers to justice, though unfortunately without success, except in very few instances. We cannot refrain however from adding to this statement, our opinion, that there must be some culpable remissness in the local police of those districts within which the actual fabricators of bank notes are more than suspected to reside, and to carry on their trade with impunity. And before we quit this part of the subject, we wish to suggest for the consideration of
[76Resulting from the above statements and examinations, some general observations have occurred to us, which appear proper to be introduced in this stage of the Report.75Whilst it is painful to observe the degree of talent perverted, it is at the same time o be remarked, that in many instances the public suffer themselves to be deceived by very
75Upon the latter of the two points above referred to, we have received from the chief inspector and chief investigator at the Bank, and also from the solicitor, accounts of the course pursued in their respective departments. For which purpose, we requested the personal attendance of each of those officers, and entered into such an examination of them, as appeared to us to be calculated to produce the necessary information. We have also been furnished by the Bank with the means of judging of the actual slate of forgery, and of that degree of skill which appears sufficient to deceive the public, by the examination of forged notes of various kinds; and even of the tools and instruments used by one forger, which were taken upon him.The invention to which we refer in the latter part of this report, and on which our attention is now principally engaged, was laid before the directors a short time previous to the issuing of his majesty's commission, and so far entertained by them, that they advanced a large sum of money to the author. The chief merit of this invention consisting in the extreme accuracy of the machinery requisite, time and application are necessary to bring it to such a state of perfection as appears likely to answer the purpose desired.Upon the general subject of the extent of forgery, we do not think it necessary to recapitulate statements which are already before parliament and the public. It appeared to us however proper to obtain more particular information as to the course which has been hitherto pursued by the Bank, both with respect to the prevention, and with respect to the detection and punishment of the crime. Upon the former of these points, we have received from the directors, in addition to the account before alluded to, clear and circumstantial details. And it is but common justice to those gentlemen to state, that in every instance our inquiries have been met by them in the most prompt and satisfactory manner, and every sort of useful information readily furnished. We feel it also proper to add our opinion, formed after an examination of all the projects which have been formerly submitted to the Bank for a change in the form of their notes, that no one of these could have been adopted with such a prospect of solid advantage to the public, as would compensate the evils necessarily attendant upon a change.[74We have also received and answered communications from about seventy individuals, which have been arranged and considered; and in some cases, a personal interview has been requested, and held. Several of these persons had been previously in communication with the Bank: and we find that in the instance of some projects of superior promise, the directors had furnished to the proposers, the pecuniary means of carrying their ideas into effect. We have likewise sought and obtained information, as to the state of the paper currency in other countries; but this has proved of very little importance, with reference to the object of our present inquiry. From America, which affords the closest parallel to the state of England in this particular, no official return has yet been received, but we have reason to think that in several parts of the United States, the crime of forgery is prevalent, and that great efforts are now making to give to the notes such a character as may baffle the skill of the American forger. Specimens of these improved notes have been communicated to us by the agent
[74Our attention was first directed to the proposals for improvement in the form of the notes issued by the Bank of England; and it being known that many plans had been submitted to that body which they had not thought it expedient to adopt, we felt it proper, in the first instance, to obtain correct information upon this point; and we therefore requested the court of directors to furnish us with an account of such plans, They did accordingly furnish us, without delay, with a detailed account of 108 projects, regularly classed and arranged; together with the correspondence respecting them, a statement of the trials to which they had been subjected, and specimens of the proposed originals, and of the imitations executed by order of the Bank. They also laid before us about seventy varieties of paper made at their manufactory in experiments for its improvement, in which almost every alteration recommended for adoption had been tried, and, in some instances, anticipated by their own manufacturer.In obedience to the directions contained in his majesty's commission, we proceeded, in the latter end of the month of July last, to consider the important subject referred to us.To his Royal Highness George Prince of Wales, Regent of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.REPORT of the Commissioners appointed for inquiring into the mode of preventing the FORGERY OF BANK NOTES. presented, by command of the Prince Regent, the following
CHARLES HATCHETT.W. H. WOLLASTON.JER. HARMAN.DAVIES GILBERT.WILLIAM COURTENAY.Jan. 15, 1819.
WILLIAM CONGREVE.Soho Square, Jos. BANKS.All which is humbly submitted to your royal highness's consideration and judgment.[78Safety, or rather comparative safety, is to be sought, to a certain extent, in a combination of excellence in various particulars; but chiefly, as we conceive, in the application of a principle beyond the reach of the art of the copper-plate engraver, which in its different processes is possessed of the most formidable power of imitation. One plan, before alluded to, as apparently affording this advantage, has been, with the most liberal assistance from the Bank, for some time past in a course of trial for its greater perfection, and with a view to combination with other improvements, satisfactory experiments of which have already been effected. The result, if our expectations be not disappointed, will afford a specimen of great ingenuity in the fabric of the paper, of great excellence in the workmanship, and of a very peculiar invention, and difficult machinery in the art of printing. We confidently hope, that no long time will elapse, before we are enabled to lay before your royal highness that result; and we have every reason to know, that the bank directors are seriously anxious to adopt any plan, which shall be found, after patient examination, to be worthy
[78Our remarks however, as to imitation, do not apply to all the specimens which have been offered to us. There are a few of singular and superior merit, produced by means which it is very improbable should ever come within the reach of any single forger, and the imitation of which, except by those means, appears in a high degree difficult.We have not considered, as decisive against the merit of any particular plan, the single fact, that it may be imitated by superior art and expensive means. But when we have found, in the case of specimens submitted to us, apparently of great excellence, and the result of a combination of talent or machinery, that a very good imitation has been produced in a short time, without any peculiar expense, and by the application of means only, which are within the reach of very many artists and engravers in England; and when we reflect, to how very few hands the business of forgery appears to be at present confined, we cannot doubt that in the event of bank notes being formed from any of such specimens, an equal number at least of persons would very soon indeed be found capable of fabricating those notes to a considerable extent, and with a degree of skill quite sufficient to deceive the public. Another consideration has also had weight in inducing us to hesitate much, before we venture to recommend any specific plan. The adoption of any new form of note presenting peculiar and characteristic marks, but the imitation of which we could not confidently feel to be extremely difficult, would not only not do good, but would produce much evil; and would induce a false security, by accustoming the public to rely upon the appearance of such marks and peculiar character, rather than upon a cautious and general observation of the whole note.77Having been furnished with such information as was within our reach, relative to the subject of our inquiry, we in the next place, proceeded to examine more in detail the several projects submitted to us. In pursuing this examination, we have not indulged the vain expectation of finding any plan for a Bank note, which shall not be imitable by the skill of English artists, and we have considered that it would be utterly unsafe to rely for security against forgery, upon the employment of any process, the chief merit of which was to consist in its being kept secret; of which several have been communicated to us. Our object has been, to select some plan, of which the process, when the principles of it are understood, and the machinery and implements provided, should be simple enough to be applied without interruption to the extended operations of the Bank; and should at the same time comprise so much of superior art, as may oppose the greatest possible difficulties to the attempts of the forger, and may present such points of accuracy and excellence in workmanship to the eye of any individual using ordinary caution, as shall enable him to detect a fraud by observing the absence of those points in a fabricated note. In the mass of the schemes before us, there are, of course, very various degrees of merit; and we endeavoured to class them as well as circumstances would permit. From a very large portion of them it was obvious, upon a first inspection, that no beneficial result could be expected. Of the whole number, we find about twelve of superior skill and ingenuity, but anticipated by others of higher merit; or merely ingenious, but inapplicable in practice. And we consider nine others to be either of such originality or ingenious combination of existing means, as to have required our more particular attention; and with respect to these, much consideration has been had, and in some instances, improvements and experiments suggested and tried.[76It has been very commonly imagined, that, in consequence of the simplicity or execution in the present bank notes, the actual forgery of them was very generally and extensively practised, and that often by persons without money or talent; and this idea has formed the basis of much of the reasoning used by many of the projectors, whose plans have been under our view. The reverse of this we believe to be the fact; and from the information before us, we feel ourselves warranted in stating our opinion, that the great quantity of forged small notes which have lately been found in circulation, have all issued from a very few plates only; and that the fabrication of them is chiefly confined to one particular part of the country, and carried on by men of skill and experience, and possessed of a very considerable command of capital. Upon a cursory observation, it appeared remarkable that whilst so many utterers are constantly brought to justice, the actual forger should very rarely indeed be detected. But further investigation has led us to think, that this fact may be accounted for; and without entering into details, which upon this point it is better to avoid, we think that it results naturally from the lamentable perfection of system, to which this fraudulent traffic has been brought; and we have seen no reason to doubt that the directors of the Bank, and their officers, have used every exertion in their power to bring the actual forgers to justice, though unfortunately without success, except in very few instances. We cannot refrain however from adding to this statement, our opinion, that there must be some culpable remissness in the local police of those districts within which the actual fabricators of bank notes are more than suspected to reside, and to carry on their trade with impunity. And before we quit this part of the subject, we wish to suggest for the consideration of
[76Resulting from the above statements and examinations, some general observations have occurred to us, which appear proper to be introduced in this stage of the Report.75Whilst it is painful to observe the degree of talent perverted, it is at the same time o be remarked, that in many instances the public suffer themselves to be deceived by very
75Upon the latter of the two points above referred to, we have received from the chief inspector and chief investigator at the Bank, and also from the solicitor, accounts of the course pursued in their respective departments. For which purpose, we requested the personal attendance of each of those officers, and entered into such an examination of them, as appeared to us to be calculated to produce the necessary information. We have also been furnished by the Bank with the means of judging of the actual slate of forgery, and of that degree of skill which appears sufficient to deceive the public, by the examination of forged notes of various kinds; and even of the tools and instruments used by one forger, which were taken upon him.The invention to which we refer in the latter part of this report, and on which our attention is now principally engaged, was laid before the directors a short time previous to the issuing of his majesty's commission, and so far entertained by them, that they advanced a large sum of money to the author. The chief merit of this invention consisting in the extreme accuracy of the machinery requisite, time and application are necessary to bring it to such a state of perfection as appears likely to answer the purpose desired.Upon the general subject of the extent of forgery, we do not think it necessary to recapitulate statements which are already before parliament and the public. It appeared to us however proper to obtain more particular information as to the course which has been hitherto pursued by the Bank, both with respect to the prevention, and with respect to the detection and punishment of the crime. Upon the former of these points, we have received from the directors, in addition to the account before alluded to, clear and circumstantial details. And it is but common justice to those gentlemen to state, that in every instance our inquiries have been met by them in the most prompt and satisfactory manner, and every sort of useful information readily furnished. We feel it also proper to add our opinion, formed after an examination of all the projects which have been formerly submitted to the Bank for a change in the form of their notes, that no one of these could have been adopted with such a prospect of solid advantage to the public, as would compensate the evils necessarily attendant upon a change.[74We have also received and answered communications from about seventy individuals, which have been arranged and considered; and in some cases, a personal interview has been requested, and held. Several of these persons had been previously in communication with the Bank: and we find that in the instance of some projects of superior promise, the directors had furnished to the proposers, the pecuniary means of carrying their ideas into effect. We have likewise sought and obtained information, as to the state of the paper currency in other countries; but this has proved of very little importance, with reference to the object of our present inquiry. From America, which affords the closest parallel to the state of England in this particular, no official return has yet been received, but we have reason to think that in several parts of the United States, the crime of forgery is prevalent, and that great efforts are now making to give to the notes such a character as may baffle the skill of the American forger. Specimens of these improved notes have been communicated to us by the agent
[74Our attention was first directed to the proposals for improvement in the form of the notes issued by the Bank of England; and it being known that many plans had been submitted to that body which they had not thought it expedient to adopt, we felt it proper, in the first instance, to obtain correct information upon this point; and we therefore requested the court of directors to furnish us with an account of such plans, They did accordingly furnish us, without delay, with a detailed account of 108 projects, regularly classed and arranged; together with the correspondence respecting them, a statement of the trials to which they had been subjected, and specimens of the proposed originals, and of the imitations executed by order of the Bank. They also laid before us about seventy varieties of paper made at their manufactory in experiments for its improvement, in which almost every alteration recommended for adoption had been tried, and, in some instances, anticipated by their own manufacturer.In obedience to the directions contained in his majesty's commission, we proceeded, in the latter end of the month of July last, to consider the important subject referred to us.To his Royal Highness George Prince of Wales, Regent of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.REPORT of the Commissioners appointed for inquiring into the mode of preventing the FORGERY OF BANK NOTES.The chancellor of the exchequer
[70 was against the principle of giving precedence to orders on every occasion, and said he should exercise his right of bringing forward a motion on
[70Mr. Bennet
 observed, that this arrangement ought to be understood with reference to the necessity of the case. When it was first made, it was done for the accommodation of both sides of the House; and he did not see why the right of bringing on an important motion should be given up in every instance.Mr. Calcraft
[68 observed, that a very important petition had been presented by one of the members for Rutland. It purported to come from a certain number of persons belonging to the class of agriculturists, as they were generally called; and its prayer was, to be allowed
[68Mr. Calcraft
67, in rising to present a petition, said, that it was with considerable diffidence; he put himself forward on the present occasion. He who was then, for the first time, trusting his virgin bark, which was scarcely sea-worthy, to the tempestuous ocean of political discussion, must naturally feel great timidity at the hazard of the trial. But still the importance of the trust which was confided to his hands, and the conviction that he was bound to use his best efforts to discharge it faithfully, gave him confidence; and, therefore, he unhesitatingly embraced the opportunity of taking the sense of the House upon the petition—the first which was presented to this parliament—which he held in his hand. "Nay," continued Mr. Lawson, "start not, Mr. Speaker, at the sight of parchment, nor imagine, from what I am now about to present, that you are about to have such an accumulation of petitions as daily poured in upon and covered your table in the last parliament. This is a petition for true and radical reform—a reform, not, Sir, of the House over which you so honourably preside—but, of a Yorkshire turnpike-road [A laugh]. The petitioners, it is true, have, like other reformers, gone upon a levelling system; but upon other grounds; they wish that the trustees, who form as well the representative as the executive power, may have an extension of their authority. Their prayer, however, was not for economy and retrenchment—they sought not to have their burthens lightened—no; but, anxious for the public good, they wished to have their burthens increased. Mr. Lawson went on to show, that though this in name might be considered a private matter, yet, from its importance, it ought to be considered as a public question. It prayed for a bill to improve the line of road leading to Harrowgate—the metropolis of a northern county; and to increase the toll to defray the expense to be incurred. The fashionable and gay place of resort to which this road led, rendered its improvement a matter of public interest. The Speaker himself could attest the importance of the place, having visited it. He also could give his testimony to the necessity of having the prayer of the petition complied with; and it must be evident to all, that it was of advantage to
67Mr. Lawson
 strongly condemned the attempt which was now carrying on to force this question again on the attention of parliament. He always had used, and he should continue to use, his utmost endeavours to defeat every scheme for tampering with the corn trade.Mr. M. A. Taylor
 commenced a question, which he put to the chancellor of the exchequer, by saying, that a large body of merchants, bankers, and manufacturers of the city of Bristol, had directed him to express their sense of the distressing effects which would follow the too early resumption of cash payments; and they had requested him to endeavour to learn what were the intentions of his majesty's ministers in relation to this momentous question. He had applied to the right hon. gentleman, who had suggested to him the propriety of asking for information, as to the views and intentions of government with respect to this subject, in the House. He therefore took the earliest opportunity of asking the right hon. gentleman, whether it was the intention of his majesty's ministers to recommend a continuance of the restriction on payments in cash? Now that he was on his legs, he would put another question to the chancellor of the exchequer, which was highly interesting. The right hon. gentleman had said, in the course of the last session, in reply to a question put to him, that he saw no probability of being obliged to resort, during the present year, either to funding or raising money by loan. Was he of the same opinion still?Mr. Hart Davis
 suggested, that as a very important question had been asked, and an explicit answer given, it would be inconvenient and contrary to the practice of the House, to prolong a conversation which was not addressed to any question now before it.The Speaker
69, from the share which he had taken in former discussions on this subject, in support of the Corn Bill, was glad to take that opportunity of expressing his disapprobation of the attempts which had been lately made to disturb the public mind. He perfectly agreed in
69Sir H. Parnell
[84s.l.l.s.l.s.83[82To the Honourable the Commons of The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the Lord Mayor, Aldermen, and Commons of the City of London in Common Council assembled. appeared at the bar, and presented the following Petition:
[84s.l.l.s.l.s.83[82To the Honourable the Commons of The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the Lord Mayor, Aldermen, and Commons of the City of London in Common Council assembled.The Sheriffs of London
[8685 said:—I am sure, Sir, the House will think with me, that the petition now presented for its consideration refers to a subject of the highest importance to the honour and character of the country. The House is aware that this subject has occupied the attention of very able and experienced men, of very wise and learned lawyers, during the last half century. I need not trespass upon the attention of the House by alluding to the opinions already so generally known and approved, of the distinguished characters to whom I allude, and who have all recommended imprisonment and labour rather than death, for the punishment of crime, and the amelioration of the morals of criminals. There is not a man who hears me that does not know, either from his own experience, or from his sources of information through other authentic channels, that, notwithstanding the severity of our criminal code, crimes have of late been continually upon the increase, and that the application of capital punishment has been found utterly inadequate to produce the effect for which it was intended. So little effect has the denunciation of death produced upon criminals, that, some time ago, it was their practice to hold mock courts, for the purpose of deciding upon the probable cases among themselves which would terminate in the conviction of the parties; and the rest then laughed at the sort of ordeal to which they were exposed, and turned into mockery the proceedings adopted towards them. It is my practice, and indeed I am bound to do so from the nature of my magisterial duties, to visit the prison of Newgate frequently. I was there so late as yesterday, and conversed with forty convicts, who are sentenced to death,
[8685Mr. Alderman Wood
primâ facie93[9291 said, he did not wish to oppose the bringing up of the petition, but he thought it right not to lose a moment in replying to the charges which had been preferred against the head of the home department. His noble relative held a situation of high responsibility, and he hoped the House would never lose sight of the arduous duties which he had to perform. It was mighty easy for gentlemen to prefer such charges as these, but it was not quite so easy for the party attacked to perform all the duties of his high situation. He did not dispute the merit of the hon. gentleman in visiting those receptacles of misery which he so frequently explored, and he had often given him credit for his exertions, but it
primâ facie93[9291Mr. Bathurst
l. said, that nothing had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, that could at all meet the charge of the hon. member for Shrewsbury. It should be impressed on the consideration of the House, that every convict sent to Botany Bay, stood the country in 80l.Lord Glerawley
[94║ said, he did not doubt the correctness of the statements which the hon. member had made from his own actual observation, and was ready to admit that he had taken the measure of the apartments accurately enough. He could
[94║Mr. Clive
 thought this was not a convenient time to enter on a question of so much importance. He wished the subject to be taken up in the place where it could be gone into fully—in the only place where it could he taken in detail,—in a committee of that House. When his noble friend came to move for his committee on the police and discipline of prisons, he might probably move that this subject should be referred to the same committee. Perhaps this would be the best way of treating it. It was undoubtedly true, that of late years there had been a great increase of crime; but this increase of crime, perhaps it might be satisfactory to those who had already spoken, to hear, had not been so great in the metropolis as in the country. Latterly, designing persons had, in too many instances, succeeded in withdrawing themselves from danger, and had effected their fraudulent designs by means of boys and inexperienced persons, whom they had contrived to expose to all the peril of being taken while executing their predatory schemes. This had in part caused the great increase of young persons, which, as the worthy alderman had remarked, appeared in the calendar. Whether the law could be so altered as to punish the head that planned, as well as the hand that executed a robbery, was a question very fit for the consideration of a committee.Mr. Bathurst
 admitted the gravity and importance of the subject, but he thought it had been brought before the House in a manner extremely inconvenient, and extremely unlikely to lead to any useful result. The subject of transportation was deserving of attention, and four or five years ago it had been brought before the House and examined before a committee. He did not see why this subject should not, if the committee to be moved for by his noble friend should be appointed, come before that committee as a matter of course: he therefore objected to the manner in which the subject was now introduced, as being neither the most convenient, nor the best calculated to produce any beneficial result.Mr. Robinson
 observed, that he did not think it a very strong proof of the hon. gentleman's candour, to have praised the agent of the noble secretary, whilst he so seriously censured the head of the home department. The hon. gentleman had said, that ministers had taken no measures to improve the condition of the convicts, yet he had given credit to Mr. Capper for the best management of the hulks. To Mr. Capper that department had been entrusted by the noble secretary. When the agent was therefore entitled to credit, was there no credit due to the head of the department? Had the agent been guilty of neglect, would not the noble secretary have received all the blame?Mr. Bathurst
 said, the question had come forward incidentally. It was impossible for him at present to state what the dimensions really were. It was not for want of attention that he had not noticed this subject, but because he had not the means of knowing what the circumstances were.Mr. Bathurst
 said, he had no reason to think otherwise. It was commanded by an officer in his majesty's service; that Was all the general knowledge he had. He should endeavour to inform himself on the subject.Mr. Bathurst
[104103 said, that he believed the ship had sailed. From the latest accounts received by him, he was convinced that she must by this time have proceeded some way upon her voyage. As to what had been said of the treatment of convicts, he had only to observe, that this ship was fitted out and conducted in the same manner as every preceding ship.[104103Mr. Clive
 said, he had given notice that on an early day he should move for leave to bring in a bill to continue for a short period the restriction on cash payments. He had now, in consequence of a communication on Friday morning last, from the committee of directors of the Bank of England, been induced to take a different course, as he thought it necessary that the motion should be preceded by a committee of inquiry. This motion he should bring forward after the motion of the right hon. gentleman opposite. The committee he should propose would be one of secrecy, which would select from the information which would be submitted to it, such as could without detriment be laid before the House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
99 said, that he should, at any time, have felt considerable difficulty in offering himself to the notice of that House, and have deemed an apology as absolutely necessary; but he now felt it doubly more so, when a question of such commanding interest was the topic of discussion. He regretted that the hon. gentleman should have expended so much sophistry, and misapplied hilarity, when the interests of suffering humanity were the subjects before the House. The hon. gentleman seemed quite pleased with himself at the notable discovery which he had made, and the admirable distinctions he had drawn, between marine and land prisons. But the hon. gentleman at the same time forgot another very obvious distinction, namely, that although all persons confined in sea prisons had been previously convicted of some crime, still that all such persons were not equally guilty, nor under an equal sentence,—some being only for seven years, whilst others were for the term of their natural lives. Different degrees of punishment should be admeasured to different shades
99Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, it had been stated by his hon. friend, that the space allotted to six individuals was five feet and a half by six feet and a half. That statement had not been denied; but the right hon. gentleman had apologized for the manner he had been obliged to answer. This showed exactly the state of the home department, where information could not be procured, even concerning the dreadful facts which had so deeply affected the House. Honourable testimony had been borne to the character of Mr. Capper: he was far from wishing to detract from it; but it appeared that he was sent down by the noble secretary of state to inquire into the state of the ships. Now, either he did report, or he did not; if he did, why was not the necessary information afforded to parliament? If he did not report, he had failed in the performance of his duty; but this, Mr. Douglas said, he was not to suppose from the character of the man. Then of course he did report; and we were to take it for granted, because it had not been denied, that three hundred human beings were penned up in the cabin of this transport, and that to every six of them was allotted a space of five and a half feet, by six and a half!Mr. F. Douglas
105 congratulated the House that any kind of inquiry had been agreed to by the chancellor of the exchequer, as
105Mr. Tierney
[88, from the first part of the right hon. gentleman's speech, had been led to hope, that it was intended by government to institute a special inquiry into the important question now before the House. He should be glad if this course were to be taken, but it seemed, from what afterwards fell from him, that he intended to attach the revisal of the whole penal code as a sort of rider to the committee to be appointed to inquire into the state of the police and discipline of prisons. All he could understand was, that on the subject now before the House, the government had nothing to propose of themselves, but when the noble lord brought the other question forward, it was thought this might be added to it by way of rider. If the noble lord touched it at all, he hoped he would give it all the importance that belonged to it. If he would not do this, then he should wish him to let it alone altogether, and leave it
[88Mr. Tierney
[9089 presented a Petition from Dr. Halloran, sentenced to seven years transportation, for forging a frank, complaining of the unprecedented severity of the punishment for such an offence, and of the treatment which he had experienced since his conviction. The hon. gentleman said he had inquired into the circumstances of the case. Dr. Halloran was unquestionably a man of considerable literary talents, he was advanced in life, and had a large family. The sentence pronounced upon him certainly appeared much, too severe for the offence; but it was the cruelty which Dr. Halloran complained that he had suffered since his conviction, to which he was desirous to call the attention of the House. He had, on his apprehension, been sent to Coldbath-fields, where he was imprisoned with felons. He was thence removed for trial to Newgate, where he was confined in the condemned cells with thirty or forty boys. From those cells, he was transferred to the hospital among the sick felons. He by no means imputed any blame to the magistrates or to the keeper, but it did so happen, owing to the crowded state of the prison, that a very severe punishment, in the mode of his imprisonment was, as in this case of Dr. Halloran's, inflicted on a prisoner, even before his trial. After Dr. Halloran had been convicted, he was sent on board the Alonzo hospital ship. Here he was seized with violent illness, in the middle of which he was removed, and carried on board the Baring transport, where he was left in a small cabin for nineteen hours without any kind of sustenance. He was then served with the usual sea allowance, which was very unfit for a man in his condition, but could obtain no medical aid. Dr. Halloran had been promised by lord Sidmouth that he should have every accommodation which it would be proper to grant him, and that he should not be compelled to associate with common felons. In a few days, however, after he had been taken on board the Baring, twenty felons were lodged with
[9089Mr. Bennet
[100 said:—Sir; before the petition be given in, I have one or two words to say. My hon. friend who spoke last is not correct if he supposes that I touched on the subject of the law respecting transportation. I did not even allude to it. I heard, some years since, of the state of transport ships; I made an attempt to get on board one, and failed; but on the ship so often alluded to putting back, I embraced the opportunity, and at much personal inconvenience in coming down from the country, I at length got on board. I saw the situation of the vessel. I measured with my own hands, in this abode of vice and wretchedness, the spaces allotted for the unhappy sufferers. I made it my peculiar care, and I shall ever, I trust, be ready to lend my assistance to the unfortunate. I am not to be deterred from the path of duty even by the sneers of the right hon. gentleman opposite. It well becomes him—it well becomes the panegyrist of men who never take any pains to serve their fellow creatures—it well becomes the supporter of a government that never lent its aid to correct abuses. If they have latterly affected a disposition to look at matters that so long claimed their interference, it is not from choice—the public voice of the country cried aloud, and, they have, I verily believe, taken up the subject for the mere purpose of taking it out of the hands of
[100Mr. Bennet
 said, it was highly desirable that the whole subject, connected with the state of the hulks, and the fitting-up of the convict ships, should be thoroughly investigated. He held it to be utterly impossible that any one committee could perform the duties which, it appeared, were to devolve on that, of the motion for the appointment of which, notice had been given. The duties were multifarious, the papers and documents that were to be examined exceedingly numerous, and the subject of so comprehensive a nature, as to demand a most minute scrutiny. He meant, therefore, on a future day, to give notice of a motion on the subject of transportation generally. Of Dr. Halloran he knew nothing; for him he cherished no particular feeling of compassion; but he was deeply interested for the miseries of those unhappy creatures who were suffering under the sentence of the law. If the ship in question had not sailed from the Downs, and it was probable that it had not, as he had received a letter from on board, on the 22nd, he hoped and trusted, that government would give immediate orders that she should be stopped.Mr. Bennet
 asked, whether the right hon. gentleman knew that this ship was fitted out exactly as other convict ships were?Mr. Brougham
101 said, that the right hon. gentleman had not denied the statement, that one foot six inches were allowed to a
101Mr. Brougham
 observed, that he was sorry at what had fallen from the hon. gentleman who had just sat down. The hon. gentleman seemed to him to make no distinction between a trip to Botany Bay and one to Brighton, and had treated a subject of very serious import with a degree of levity which he must term indelicate, if not indecent. The question was one of the last importance—one that must excite the interest of every man who had an understanding to comprehend, or a heart to feel for human misery. His hon. friend had brought forward certain charges; and how were they met?—not by a denial of those charges, but by saying, indeed, that Dr. O'Halloran had a bad character—as if the character of Dr. O'Halloran was to be a bar against inquiry. It had been asserted, that the regulations with regard to convict ships were now precisely what they always had been. Every inquiry should be made on so important a subject; for the House could not be better occupied than in attending to the amelioration of our penal code.Mr. Buxton
 said, that he had not mentioned Brighton. His object was to state, that passengers between Dover and Calais were exposed to sea miseries, as well as those who were transported from Portsmouth to Botany Bay.Mr. Lawson
97 was anxious to make a few observations on what had been said. The hon. and learned gentleman, who spoke last, had asked, why, when there was such a strong feeling throughout the country in favour of a reformation in the construction and discipline of prisons, the reformation was not to be extended to gaols at sea? But there was this material difference between gaols on land and gaols at sea—that in gaols on land many innocent men might be confined, but in those at sea none but the guilty were confined. In the same manner, the hon. gentleman who opened the subject, had mistaken the cause of the indignation at the treatment of the persons confined in slave ships. The reason why people sympathised with the slaves was, not the nature of the punishment, but because they were innocent. But what analogy could there be between the case of innocent persons and convicts? Why were such cases compared unless it were to excite impressions which, though favourable to the criminal, would only tend to lessen the terrors of the law? If the punishment of death was to be abolished for certain offences, or rendered less terrific, recourse should certainly be had to that punishment, which in point of severity was the next. Generally speaking, in this country transportation was so cosidered, but would gentlemen deem it prudent, that that also should be abolished—that punishment altogether should be at an end? Disgusting pictures of a prison, either on sea or land, were very easily to be drawn; but he would
97Mr. Lawson
 rose to ask, whether the ship in question had yet sailed, or whether she remained at anchor in the Downs, or was on any other part of the English coast? For he conceived this to be a most important subject; and hoped to God that the members of that House would not sleep until they had taken such proceedings as would be most likely to procure the detention of the vessel. This was no party question. Common humanity required some interference, and he trusted every member of the House, if it should appear that the vessel had not yet sailed, would pause, and not only pause, but act in such manner as the urgency of the case required.Mr. Bernal
87 addressed the House for the first time. He observed, that as his worthy friend has said so much on the subject, he would not trespass on the House with any discussion of the merits of the petition, but hoped he might be permitted to draw their attention to one or two leading facts connected with the subject. In the first place, it appeared that of late years crimes had increased to an alarming degree. Such was the undoubted and incontrovertible fact. It appeared, that during the last ten years, the number of persons imprisoned in the various gaols of the kingdom had increased in the proportion of nearly four to one; for they had increased from 4,000 annually to nearly 14,000. He could further state to the House, that as far as his information went, although that information was confined to the city of London, he believed a large proportion of the persons apprehended and taken before the magistrates escaped with impunity, because the magistrates felt a difficulty in committing them on account of the crowded state of the local prisons, and on account of the probability of their acquittal, in consequence of the rigour of the penal laws. By direction of the magistrates of the city of London, a statement was annually made out of the number, ages, &c. of the individuals committed to the different prisons in the metropolis. By the statement for the last year, it appeared, that there were, in the course of 1818, no less than 600 persons tried and convicted who were under 21 years of age. According to the best calculation it appeared, that the number of individuals under 21 years of age who were, in the course of the year, committed to Newgate and tried, exceeded 1,000. He was persuaded that the House would agree with him in thinking this a most alarming fact. He would not trespass on their time further than to express a hope, that the importance of the subject would force it on consideration; that the attention of his majesty's government would be called to it; that it would undergo a full investigation by parliament; and that, in the course of the present session some means would be devised to diminish this most alarming and
87Mr. Alderman Waithman
[102 animadverted, in very severe terms, on the system at present pursued as to the treatment of convicts on board ship during their passage. He had known convict ships sail for Botany Bay in such a crazy state, as made it hardly possible that they should reach the Cape of Good Hope in safety. It was an unquestionable fact that the surgeons of
[102Sir Isaac Coffin
[9695*** said, that not being acquainted, further than what he had heard in the House, with the nature or particulars of the case then under consideration, he would not enter at any length on the subject; but he could not help observing, as had already been justly remarked by the hon. member under the gallery, that the most important facts in the petition had neither been contradicted nor explained, but had been passed over in total silence by the right hon. gentleman, as if they had nothing to do with the question. The right hon. gentleman who now stood forward as the advocate of the noble secretary of state for the home department, could not deny the facts that had been stated to the House; and not only those, but others connected with a ship that lately sailed from this country to Botany Bay. An inquiry, it was true, was now to be instituted, as the House was told; but that inquiry should have been made long ago. The question of our penal code, as relating to prison abuses, long the subject of complaint, had lately been brought home to the feelings of every man in the country, by a work[9695***Sir James Mackintosh
 said, that it was not his intention to object to the production of the accounts. The information they contained might be usefully laid before the House, preparatory to the discussion which was to take place. With regard to the hon. gentleman's comments, and the justness of the inferences which he had drawn, a better opportunity would soon present itself for the consideration of them.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 having moved the order of the day for the house resolving itself into a Committee of Supply,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he did not rise to quarrel with the hon. knight for the expression of his political sentiments, though he must dissent from his statement of what he called facts. The hon. knight asserted, the amount of the national debt to be eight hundred millions. In making this calculation he seemed entirely to have forgotten, that the redeemed part had reduced the debt to five or sis hundred millions. The hon. member wished most unfairly to throw an odium and a burthen on government which they had no right to be called upon to bear. How was it possible for them to avoid the expenditure which was complained of, when they were imperatively called upon to make those great exertions, which had ultimately established the glory of the country and the peace of the world? Had the income tax been continued a few years longer, the embarrassments now so loudly declaimed against, would have been by this time put upon a different footing.Lord Glerawley
[118 said, that after what had fallen from the hon. gentleman, he hoped he would receive the indulgence of the house, while he clearly and distinctly stated the authority on which he had given his statement last night. He lately went down to visit the two transports then about to sail with convicts. In one of them he understood there were 300 men; in the other 440. He went on board one of them in consequence of a communication from Dr. O'Halloran. The place in which he saw the doctor was 12 feel square, and 21 persons, he was told, were stowed in it. He saw three persons lying in one of the cribs which he had described, and they told him that three others were also crammed into the same sleeping place. Three men, who stood by, avowed that they were the persons who slept in this contracted space. He was glad, indeed, to find that this information was not correct: but he was told he should have gone to the captain for information; he meant to have had the statement of the captain, in the presence of the convicts, but the bustle of getting water on deck and preparing for sea, prevented his having the means of procuring infor-
[118Mr. Bennet
l.111l.[110109 said, he had often addressed the House on the subject to which he was about to allude—a Subject of deep interest, and one which demanded all the wisdom of the House. Notices had been given of different motions since the opening of the session, connected with the question he was about to submit to their consideration. The first was from his right hon. friend (Mr. Tierney), the second from the right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer; and notice had been given by an hon. and learned friend of his (sir J. Mackintosh), on the subject of the fabrication of bank notes—an inquiry of deep public interest in every way that it could be considered—interesting as it affected national credit, and doubly interesting as it affected the happiness, the character, and the morals of the people. It would
l.111l.[110109Mr. Grenfell
 said, that he last night, from the statement of the hon. member, pronounced the treatment of these convicts as being most scandalous. He had gone to the navy board this morning to make inquiries into the truth of the statement, and the result of his inquiries, was, that the hon. member had been imposed upon. In candour, therefore, he felt himself bound to withdraw the expressions he had used last night, and to express his belief, from the information he had Since received, that the convicts were as well treated as was consistent with the situation of such persons.Sir Isaac Coffin
115[114113[112 rose, and addressed the house nearly as follows:—An imperative sense of duty could alone prevail over a variety of personal considerations, and those feelings which a new member must suffer from, who presumes to address, for the first time, a house so replete with talent. I must, therefore, throw myself
115[114113[112Sir Robert Wilson
119 observed, that half a ton more than was usually allowed to soldiers and sailors, was allowed to convicts,
119Sir T. B. Martin
117[116 expressed his regret that be was not
117[116Sir T. B. Martin
 accordingly moved, "That it be referred to the committee of privileges to examine the subject matter of the said letters, and report the same, with their opinion thereupon, to the House." The motion was agreed to, and the committee was instructed to sit tomorrow.Mr. Bathurst
131 thought it must be evident to the House that to a question so important as that of
131The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that if the hon. member for Bristol would refer to the report of the secret committee which sat in 1797, to inquire into the affairs of the Bank, he would perceive that there was nothing in such a proceeding to preclude the House from a general consideration of the subject. He wished to take that opportunity of stating his intention to move, on Tuesday next, for a committee of secrecy, to inquire into the state of the Bank, with reference to the expediency of the resumption of cash payments at the time fixed by act of parliament, and into such other matters as might be connected therewith. It was pot usual to move in the first place that the committee should be one of secrecy, but he thought it due in candour to intimate, that he intended to propose that this should be its character.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was of opinion, that it would be more expedient that the whole inquiry should be submitted to one committee similar in its formation to that which gave general satisfaction to the country in the year 1797.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that upon the best information which he had, as to the rules and practice of the House, committees of secrecy were always elected by ballot. With regard to the terms of his motion, the right hon. gentleman must recollect, that the one of which he had himself at first given notice was so vague in its expression, that he had found it necessary, subsequently, to correct it. If the right hon. gentleman meant nothing more than was included in the inquiry to which his (the chancellor of the exchequer's) motion would naturally lead, he could not perceive what objection he could have to adopt it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the collateral matters referred to by the terms of his motion would certainly include the state of the currency, and other questions; but the first point of inquiry would be, the state of the affairs of the Bank, a topic not even mentioned in the words of the right hon. gentleman's notice.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
, seeing an honourable Bank director in his place, wished to learn from him, whether it was the desire of the Bank, that the committee about to be appointed to inspect their affairs, should be a secret committee? He asked this question, because he felt that that committee, in order to be useful, ought to carry with it the confidence of the country; and he had great doubts whether that confidence would be given to a committee whose investigations were secret, unless it could be shown, at the same time, that disclosure would be attended with public danger.Mr. Protheroe
[132 declared, that his difficulty in understanding what course the right hon. gentleman really had it in contemp-
[132Mr. Tierney
 wished to know whether the right hon. gentleman would be satisfied with a secret committee to inquire into the state of the Bank simply. For his own part, he had no doubt of its solvency; but he hoped that a secret committee was not deemed necessary for investigating the general policy or necessity of continuing the restriction.Mr. Tierney
133 observed, that in his construction of the right hon. gentleman's notice, he had learned nothing distinctly, except that the committee was to be secret, and to be chosen by ballot. Of this there was no doubt, and this was the limit of the information he had acquired of the nature of that inquiry which was to be proposed. The object of his own motion was to inquire openly, and generally, into the state of our currency, of the foreign exchanges, and the degree to which they were affected by the restriction of cash payments at the Bank. This inquiry he thought important, in order that the country should know what the system was upon which they were embarking, and proceed with its eyes open. If the right hon. gentleman thought him wrong in the manner of framing his motion, be wished him to say so; for he had
133 Mr. Tierney
 replied, that he should think he deserted his duty to the country, if after the right hon. gentleman's declaration, he did not take the sense of the Mouse on the question of referring this most important inquiry to a committee chosen by ballot, and whose report every man well knew would be nothing more than an echo of the right hon. gentleman's own opinion.Mr. Tierney
d.s. rose to put a question to the chancellor of the exchequer, upon a point of the utmost importance to the public. He had received information that day, of the correctness of which he had no Reason to doubt, that the price of standard silver had advanced to 5d.s.Mr. Grenfell
 said, that he had not the honour of a seat there as a Bank director, but as a duly elected member of parliament. He therefore called for the protection of the House against such sudden interrogatories. He would, while he sat there, discharge, to the best of his ability, his duty as a member; but although, from courtesy, he might answer a question, he hoped it would not be forgotten, that he appeared there as a member of parliament, and did not take his seat as a director.Mr. Manning
[130129 rose and said:—I have to acquaint the House, that on Saturday, the 16th instant, I received a letter from a gentleman of the name of Robert Christie Burton, describing himself to be member of parliament, for the borough of Beverley, which
[130129The Speaker
*mesne process,135 said, he should have contented himself with merely moving two resolutions, expressing the concurrence of the House in this report, had it not been for the petition which had been presented and withdrawn on account of an informality. The substance, however, was as open to exception as the form, for it was a complete error to suppose that there was any distinction between the
*mesne process,135Mr. Wynn
[136** apprehended that the court of King's-bench was the proper place to resort to with complaints of this nature. It was but lately that he had seen a case, in which that court had granted a rule to show cause why a
[136**Mr. Bathurst
 thought the observations of the hon. member applied, not to the merits of this petition, but to the general state of the law, with regard to this subject, which he agreed with him in thinking did call for some amendment. But the complaint of this petitioner appeared to him to fall peculiarly within the cognizance of a court of law. There was no doubt that instances of abuse and misapplication of their powers by magistrates occurred, and that parliament ought to direct its attention to the subject. The present case, however, being one which evidently belonged to the jurisdiction of a court of law, he would suggest the propriety of withdrawing the petition.Mr. Courtenay
143[142 observed, that the members of the commission, whose report had been adverted to by the hon. and learned gentleman, had felt it their duty to ascertain, as far as they could, the value of the respective inventions submitted to them. What might be the weight of the opinion which they had formed and delivered, it was not for him to say. The hon. and learned gentleman, however, had a little misconceived the report of the commissioners. They had been fully aware that their report must create much disappointment. It was clear that the ingenious projectors of those plans they had not been able to approve, were likely to think the seven commissioners rather than themselves to be in the wrong. But the commissioners were also aware, that the longer the public were kept in ignorance of their opinion, the longer would those individuals be kept in a state that must tend to increase the disappointment when it arrived. In that view of the sub-
143[142Mr. Courtenay
 said, he meant to state that the note on which experiments were making, was in such a state, that they thought it already a considerable improvement on the present note; but they thought that even that note might be improved, and that improvement was now under experiment.Mr. Courtenay
[144 said, that many of the specimens shown to the commission possessed great merit, and were in themselves an improvement on the existing system; but it had been suggested by a member of the commission, who was at the same time a member
[144Mr. Courtenay
 expressed his confidence that the magistrate alluded to had not acted from any improper motive. He felt pleasure in testifying to the respectability of his character, as he was in an opposite interest to himself, and because an unfavourable impression was sometimes made by petitions of this nature.Mr. Protheroe
 said, if he understood the hon. and learned gentleman correctly, the substance of what he said was—that though some improvements on the existing system had been presented to the commission, yet no projects had been presented to that body which allowed them to entertain any thing more than a hope that some device might be hit upon which would tender the crime of forgery infinitely more difficult. He wished to learn from him when they might expect the ultimate opinion of the commission on the experiments they were now making—when they might expect something more definite on the subject than mere hope. It was material that the commission should report whether they had merely a hope, or whether they had something more than a hope, that the crime of forgery could not be committed with the same security as heretofore.Mr. Tierney
 as the general feeling of the House appeared to be against the reception of the petition, consented to withdraw it.Mr. Bennet,
 presented a petition from a person named Brownjohn, complaining of the improper conduct of a magistrate at Bristol, in refusing to renew his licence as a victualler, by which refusal the petitioner had been subjected to grievous loss and injury. The hon. gentleman observed, that he availed, himself of this opportunity of giving notice of his intention to propose, soon after Easter, some alteration of the law as it related to the mode of granting and taking away licences by magistrates.Mr. Bennet
prima facie observed, that the court of King's-bench would not interfere, except upon a prima facieMr. Bennet
137 thought the public highly indebted to the hon. gentleman, for the important part which he had taken in the production of the police report. No man who had read it could deny, that the greatest abuses existed in the licensing system. He was strongly impressed with the necessity of bringing the subject before parliament at an early period. With respect to the petition immediately under consideration, he confessed that he should be sorry to see the doors of the house
137Mr. Hume
 bore similar testimony to the character of the gentleman against whom the complaint of the petitioner was preferred.Mr. Hart Davis
mesne process, suggested, that, independently of the substance of the petition, which he should not examine, there was an irregularity in point of form, which would be fatal to it, the petition having been signed not by the petitioners themselves, but by a person describing himself as agent to the petitioners.mesne process,The Speaker
[134 presented a petition from several persons, merchants at Hull, represent-
[134Sir James Mackintosh
l./.1.141[140139[138*** said, he should have moved for the returns, the production of which he had in view, without any previous observation, as he understood it was not likely that his motion would be opposed, had he not wished to take the earliest opportunity of making a few remarks on the report of the commissioners appointed for inquiring into the mode of preventing the forgery of Bank-notes. [See p. 73.] Indeed, he had come down to the House yesterday with that intention, but observing that the hon. member for Exeter was not in his place, he thought it better to postpone saying any thing on the subject until that hon. gentleman, a member of the commission in question, should be present. The inquiry for which that commission was appointed, originated in a motion which he had had the honour to make in the last session of parliamentl./.1.141[140139[138***Sir James Mackintosh
 then moved for an account of the number of forged notes which had been detected by the Bank of England, from the 10th of April 1818 to the 28th of January 1819. In making this motion, he wished to say a few words on what had fallen from his hon. and learned friend. It appeared that the only result, after six months' labour on the part of the commission was, that they might expect something from one untried experiment. They were now in a very different situation from what they conceived themselves to be in before. It was conceived that many means might be devised for the diminution of forgeries; but now all their hopes of success rested on an experiment which was yet untried. The House would greatly mistake him, if they thought that he undervalued the inquiries of the commission. Even after the resumption of cash payments, such an improvement in the construction of bank notes as would render it more difficult to imitate them, would be a very great improvement. As the paper which would continue in circulation after the resumption, would continue to be attacked some time from the habit of forgery contracted during the stoppage of cash payments, it would require all possible improvements to protect the public after the resumption. Any improvement, even the slightest, would therefore, in his opinion, be desirable.Sir James Mackintosh
 as the petition did not complain of an undue return, and (as he understood from the hon. and learned gentleman) it did not proceed from person claiming the right of voting for the city of Oxford, had no doubt that it ought not to be referred to an election committee. But he also wished to suggest to the House, that it might be very inconvenient to receive such a petition at all, until the period had elapsed within which a petition complaining of an undue return for the place in question might be presented; because, if it were referred to the consideration of a committee of privileges, the report of that Committee might indirectly determine that question, respecting which there was yet time for a petition to be presented; namely, the validity of the re turn. He would put the case of an individual favoured by administration, who might think it more practicable to obtain his object, not by a reference to an election committee, but by a petition such as the present, which might allow him to canvass the House at large. On these grounds, be strongly recommended the hon. and learned gentleman to adopt the course of postponing his motion for the reception of the petition, until after the fourteen days had elaped which were allowed for the presentation of petitions complaining of undue returns. After that period, there could be no objection what ever to its reception, provided no petition complaining of an undue return for the city! of Oxford was presented.Mr. Wynn,
 observed, that he had understood the hon. and learned gentleman to have said, at first, that the petitioners had no local connexion with the city of Oxford. He felt, however, the difficulty which he had already urged to be so strong, that as the report of a committee of privileges must, if made, lie on the table till the fourteen days were expired, and as therefore there was no reason for dispatch, he should take the sense of the House upon the question of receiving this petition.Mr. Wynn
149 would not object to the metion for laying the petition on the table, but if it were pressed any farther at present, he must decidedly oppose it.149Mr. Wynn
 said, that now be had heard the petition read, he entertained considerable doubts whether it was not in itself an election petition. It appeared to him, that if any petition stated facts, which, if true, would render an election null and void, and that petition came from persons entitled to vote, it was to all intents and purposes an election petition. This was a petition from freemen, and it complained of an act, bribery, which, if it had really taken place, would render the election in question null and void. If the House were of opinion that it was an election petition, a day must be fixed for taking it into consideration. If they entertained any doubt on the subject, it might be expedient to adjourn the consideration of it to some future day.Mr. Wynn
153d.s.s.d.d.s.s.[152 wished to say a few words on this subject. The hon. gentleman would recollect, that when the new coinage was under consideration in the last parliament, it appeared to be considered by every one as expedient, in order to prevent the two metals clashing as coin, to make the coin of one of the metals of standard value, and the coin of the other to serve as a kind of counters in exchange. In this proposition he understood that the hon. gentleman concurred, and that the only difference between them was as to the amount of the seigniorage on the silver coin for the purpose in question; it being the opinion of government, that 6 per cent would be sufficient, while the hon. gentleman, if he recollected right, thought that a seigniorage somewhat higher—he believed 10 per cent—would be better. [Mr. Grenfell, in explanation, denied having expressed any such opinion.] He had certainly understood the hon. gentleman to have stated it as his opinion, that the seigniorage should be fixed at 10 per cent. rather than at 6 per cent; but he now stood corrected. The hon. gentleman must, still admit the correctness of the principle, that one precious metal should be made the standard of value, and that the other metals should be considered as counters, and be reduced in value, in. order to prevent them from coming into competition with that which was the standard. This was the only plan that could be adopted for preserving the coin in the country; and yet this very principle, which the hon. gentleman approved, and produced that effect which
153d.s.s.d.d.s.s.[152Mr. Wellsley Pole
s.[154 said, that he felt considerable embarrassment on rising to give his opinion upon a question of such great importance, but trusted to the indulgence of the House for his want of being adequately acquainted with a subject, which a right hon. gentleman on the floor had admitted himself hardly equal to. He was aware that the Bank restriction was an unpopular subject. It might, no doubt, be matter of consideration for the House whether or no any restriction should be put upon the extension of the issue of bank paper; but he was himself decidedly of opinion, that should this be the case, and the issue be too much circumscribed, the trade of the country would suffer in proportion. With respect to the specie, it must be liable, from the state of the exchanges, to continual fluctuation. The present high price of silver was, no doubt, attributable to the great demand for India, America, and other foreign parts; and if specie were now generally in cir-
s.[154Mr. Wilson
 said, that the right hon. gentleman had attributed to him what he never uttered. He had not said that he had always thought it would be best to go into a committee; but that he now thought that, in the situation in which things stood, the best thing would be a committee. The right hon. gentleman had endeavoured to exhibit him in a ridiculous light. He did not disapprove of the course adopted by the right hon. gentleman on this occasion. It was his usual practice, when he could not answer any thing, to have recourse to ridicule. There was no man who was more happy than the right hon. gentleman when he chose to avail himself of ridicule. How ever, if be had the advantage of the argument, he did not envy the right hon. gentleman the advantage which he derived from his powers of ridicule; though he was sorry that he himself had come in for the first share of it. He had endeavoured to give such information as it was in his power to state, and he had stated his conscientious opinion Chat the fairest way to reconcile all the clashing interests and opinions would be to go into a committee. The right hon. gentleman had closed his speech with some advice, of which, he should endeavour to avail himself; but he could assure him at was not with, a view of making a parade of reading, that he had mentioned the books and pamphlets read by him. This was, of all things, the farthest from his thoughts. He had merely stated them to show the difficulties in which the subject was involved, and as a reason for his thinking that a matter of such intricacy would be the best settled by the intelligence of the House, chosen, as he hoped it would be, by ballot, which would give every member the power of putting into the glass the names he really thought best calculated for the service.Mr. W. Pole
155 Said, he rose to notice an observation or two, which had fallen from the right hon. gentleman opposite. He understood that right hon. gentleman to say, that the proportion fixed at the Mint was such as to secure the silver coin from being melted down. But it was necessary to bear in mind, that that proportion was settled with reference to gold, and not with reference to paper He would ask, whether it was possible to fix any proportion which would secure the silver coin against the depreciation of paper? If he meant to say, that the proportion was fixed with relation to gold, then he would say this was of no effect: if it was fixed to guard against the depreciation of paper, then he would say the right hon. gentleman had attempted to do that which was impossible. If it referred to paper—he would ask him, whether, if paper were now depreciated to that extent which they had already seen, he thought it would be possible to secure the silver coin? The assertion of the right hon. gentleman then, either had nothing to do with the question, or it could not be made good. The right hon. gentleman had enlarged on the inconsistencies of political economists on this question; but he thought the right hon. gentleman might find still greater inconsistencies in the honourable and right hon. gentlemen who voted with each other on the question. They all recollected the resolution of a right hon. gentleman, for it was not the resolution of the House, that the pound note and a shilling were equivalent to a guinea, at the very time that it was notorious, that a guinea was worth a great deal more, and when ministers were permitting that to be done, which, by this resolution, it was said there was no occasion for doing. He should like to know what the opinion
155Lord Archibald Hamilton
"HENRY HUNT."[146nisil.d.s.l."That, at the last election for the city of Westminster, your petitioner stood along with five other gentlemen, as candidates for the representation of that city, and soon after the close of such election, an account was sent him by Arthur Morris, esq. the high bailiff of the said city, claiming of three of such candidates only, the sum of 936[146nisil.d.s.l."To the Honourable the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament assembled. —The Petition of Henry Hunt, esq. humbly sheweth; presented the1following Petition from Mr. Hunt against this bill:
"HENRY HUNT."[146nisil.d.s.l."That, at the last election for the city of Westminster, your petitioner stood along with five other gentlemen, as candidates for the representation of that city, and soon after the close of such election, an account was sent him by Arthur Morris, esq. the high bailiff of the said city, claiming of three of such candidates only, the sum of 936[146nisil.d.s.l."To the Honourable the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament assembled. —The Petition of Henry Hunt, esq. humbly sheweth;Mr. Sinclair
 was of opinion, that the House should not, in the first instance, refuse to receive a petition of which they knew no more, generally, than that it complained of a gross breach of the privileges of that House. When it was received it might be postponed, or otherwise dealt with. Of the petition he know nothing. His personal feelings were unquestionably in favour of he the noble duke who was the subject of it; but, as a member of parliament he felt it to be his duty to support the reception of the petition.Mr. Tierney
[156 said, that the right hon. the master of the Mint had totally mistaken the object of this hon. friend. His hon. friend wished to show that the market price of silver had risen above that established by the Mint regulation, and that, in consequence, there was a danger of all our silver coin being carried out of the country. In reply to that, the right hon. gentleman had made a variety of statements and remarks no way contradicting his hon. friend's assertion, and bearing no relation whatever to the subject. The right hon. gentleman had expressed, as the only source of consolation for the country, his hope, that the great drainage of the silver currency, which he admitted, would not continue. The right hon. gentleman boasted of having studied the subject deeply of having given it every consideration of which his mind had been capable, but he had concluded with de-daring that all his reflection and investigation, could find no remedy but the appointment of a committee of that House. The right hon. gentleman said, he had read all the pamphlets that had been written on the subject. He would advise him to read one more—which it appeared he had not seen, and which had come into his own bands only that morning. He could assure the right hon. gentleman it would reward his pains. It was a letter to the right hem. Robert Peel, from one of his constituents, a member of the university of Oxford. Who the constituent of Mr. Peel was, he did not know, but he would say of him, whoever he was, that he was an honour to the University of Oxford. The right hon. gentleman had told them he was one of his majesty's ministers, who had always thought it they would best get quit of their difficulties by going into a committee. And this was the opinion which the right hon. gentlemen had come to after exercising all she intelligence which God had given him. If this had always been the opinion of the right hon.
[156Mr. Tierney
151d.s.d.s.s.d.s.d.s.[150 took the opportunity to advert to the statement which he had made on Wednesday evening, that the
151d.s.d.s.s.d.s.d.s.[150Mr. Grenfell
 expressed himself grateful for the advice of the hon. gentleman, but begged to state, that he was wrong in supposing that the petitioners were not freemen of Oxford, or were not qualified to vote. It appeared also to him, that the hon. gentleman had carried the effect of the act of parliament too far. It might be desirable that it should, but the law in its present state did not exclude any person from complaining to the House of a breach of privilege within the fourteen days. Every subject had, therefore, a right to expect that his complaint should be immediately considered. He thought, too, that the consequences of a report by a committee of privileges were somewhat exaggerated, when it was supposed that it would necessarily embarrass or mislead fifteen gentlemen, acting upon oath, whose duty it might afterwards be to advert to the same circumstances. Under these considerations, and with a full knowledge of the respectability of the petitioners) he did not feel himself justified in consenting to any delay.Mr. Denman
147 said, he held in his hand a petition containing serious charges against a, person of elevated rank. It complained, of a breach of the privileges of that House, by the interference of a peer of parliament in the election for the city of Oxford. It did not allege an undue return, but
147Mr. Denman
 declared, that he had no wish to oppose the motion of the hon. and learned gentleman. From his own actual knowledge of the facts to which the petition referred, and from other circumstances, he felt the utmost confidence that the conduct of his noble relation would, upon inquiry, prove to be utterly undeserving of the imputations cast upon it. He should defer all further remarks till a future opportunity.Lord Charles Spencer Churchill
 repeated his solicitude, that the allegations of the petition should be thoroughly investigated.Lord C. Churchill
 observed, that the House would see that this was a matter of great importance. If the House were clearly of opinion that it was an election petition, the regular course would be to withdraw it for the purpose of again presenting it in that form, to be taken into consideration in the usual way. If they were not satisfied on the subject, the most judicious way would be to adjourn the debate, to give honourable members an opportunity to look into the petition and to make up their minds. The words used in the petition were extremely strong, and he confessed he thought the House would find it most convenient not to decide off hand upon it.The Speaker
 presented, by command of the Prince Regent, the followingLord Castlereagh
 said, he could not agree with the hon. member who spoke last, that, under any circumstances, so large an expense should be thrown upon the candidate. The candidate came forward as much in obedience to the king's writ as the electors did who gave him their votes. To put an extreme case: suppose nobody came forward, and that no return was made, then the city would be punished by fine for not obeying the king's writ. Parliamentary service might be cast on a man with or without his consent, and no man, should be fined for seeking or accepting it. He therefore should propose inquiry. If the dean and chapter had funds (and he was inclined to believe they had none) which could be legally liable to this charge, the expense should be defrayed by them: if not, a rate ought to be levied on Westminster, and a permanent building be erected, or hustings which might be put up when required, and which would not entail any considerable expense on the city.Mr. Wynn
187 said, he concurred generally in what had fallen from the hon. gentleman who spoke last, and thought it an unconstitutional principle which went to fix the expenses on the candidates: especially as they were sometimes brought forward without their previous assent; a case of this sort had actually occurred in Westminster. There seemed as little propriety in fixing the expenses on the high bailiff or dean and chapter who were not more materially interested in the repre-
187Mr. C. Tennison
 observed, that the bankers had not signed it. The Messrs. Beckett who had signed it, were not the bankers, but another firm, sons of the bankers of that name.Mr. S. Worthy
 said, it came to him accompanied by a letter from a respectable merchant, desiring him to present it. He was not informed whether any public meeting had taken place.Mr. S. Worthy
 concurred with the hon. and learned gentlemen, that the House could not properly take cognizance of the petition in the manner it was presented, since it was, to all intents and purposes, an election petition.Mr. Bankes
 said, that he persevered in his original opinion, that the petition could not be considered in any other light than as an election petition. The facts stated by the petitioners, if true, must go to affect the return of the member in whose behalf the noble duke was alleged to have interfered. If, therefore, such a complaint was to be considered in the light of a breach of privilege, and was referred to the committee of privileges, the example would operate so, that every other complaint affecting the return of members, and many of which might be considered breaches of privilege, would be referred to that committee, instead of the select committee, with powers to examine upon oath pursuant to the Grenville act. Parliament and the country had, before the passing of that act, pronounced its opinion on the incompetency of the former course, and on the universal confusion that attended its continuance.Mr. Wynn
 said, he had no desire to prolong the discussion; but there was one observation of the hon. member who preceded him, to which it was necessary to advert. It seemed to be his opinion, that unless a petition was couched in certain technical terms, it was not to be considered as an election petition, and of course not to be referred to a select committee, in conformity with the act of the 10th of the king. The principle and practice were wholly different, as it was the substance of the allegations that gave a character to the petition. In the case of the petition of Mr. Home Tooke, many members were inclined to view it. in the light of a libel upon the House, and to treat it as such; but as it adverted to an undue return of the silting members for Westminster, it was decided to be an election petition. Enough had been stated in the present petition to accuse the noble duke of being an agent for others. Corruption and bribery were alleged, and if such allegations were proved before an election committee, the election would be reported to be void. It was not for him to say what course the House should pursue, if the question were brought before them properly as a breach of privilege. The present was no question of discretion: the law was imperative upon the course to be pursued: the petition must go before that tribunal which the law had marked out, and could not be withdrawn.Mr. Bathurst
 observed, that as the hon. member's observations applied to all parts of the public service, he should beg leave to answer them. It was obvious, that if government were limited in the application of any grant to the exact period for which it had been voted, parliament would be always obliged to meet previous to the last day to which the votes extended. But his majesty's ministers always conceived they had the power of applying any sums that might remain, after discharging the expenses of the year, to that branch of the public service for which they had been granted. In the estimates, the charges were not made prospectively, but retrospectively, and on that account, balances, in many instances, necessarily remained, and a running account was kept up from one year to another. He did not see any irregularity in thus applying the surpluses of public money, provided the sums granted were always expended on that particular part of the service for which they had been voted.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.197 then moved, "That a
l.l.197The Chancellor of the Exchequer
199 observed, that as an occasion would so soon occur for fully discussing the concerns of the Bank, he did not mean at present to enter into that subject at any length; but upon some points to which the hon. gentleman had adverted, he had no hesitation in explaining the views of government. With respect to the loan from the Bank of three millions, in 1818, there was a new arrangement in contemplation upon that loan and the interest granted for it, which he would take an opportunity of stating to the House to-morrow. Then, as to the public balances in the hands of the Bank, there had been some communications respecting them between government and the directors, and the object was, to make such arrangements that the public balances should in future be applied to the public service. Here he thought it right to state, for the correction of some floating errors, that the amount of the public balances in the hands of the Bank were by no means equal to what many gentlemen appeared to think. A great reduction had taken place, in the amount of those balances, in consequence of the termination of the war and the reduction of the public expenditure, and partly also, in consequence of the economical arrangements of his majesty's government. Whether any retrospective measure should be adopted with respect to interest upon such public balances as had been heretofore in the hands of the Bank, he would not then say; but he could distinctly state, that it was in contemplation to make prospective arrangements for the application of all public balances to the public service. He thought it necessary to correct a mistake which had gone into circulation, with regard to the sum due from government to the Bank. That sum did, as was stated,
199The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 insisted, that he had never said that the surplus of one department had been applied to the service of another. However proper or economical such a plan might be, it would not be authorized, and he should therefore consider it a breach of his duty. All that the executive government had considered itself at liberty to do, was, to apply any part of the sums granted by parliament for any service, and which might remain unexhausted, to that particular service, beyond the time for which it had been voted.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 declared, that it had always been his object to propose such an arrangement, but that he felt the difficulty of carrying it into effect, without the approbation and cooperation of the Bank; and he was now happy to say, that the directors fully concurred in his views.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 proposed, as an amendment, that Friday next should be substituted for to-morrow for the third reading. He also thought that some inquiry ought to be made to ascertain the emoluments of the high bailiff. Suppose a member were elected, and did not choose to attend at the hustings lest he should be called upon to pay this large expense, in what a situation would he not be placed! He would be exposed to the penalty of the House for not attending, and to the high bailiff's bill if he took his seat.Lord A. Hamilton
[168 admitted, that the worthy alderman was not in parliament when this subject had last come before the House. On that occasion, when the House ordered the Corporation to produce their accounts, they did not do so; but they abandoned the attempt for that time. As to what had been said, relative
[168Mr. Serjeant Onslow
[194 contended, that the petition was not an election petition, but merely called on the House to vindicate its own privileges. The facts asserted could not affect the return of the hon. member for Oxford, unless a connexion was proved between him and the noble duke, so as to show that the latter had been his agent. He was convinced that the language of the petition was so framed as to avoid bringing the return into question. If that was the intention of the petitioners, to refer the petition to a select committee would make it fall to the ground, as they would not enter into the cognizances required. He thought it therefore desirable, that it should be referred to a committee of privileges. An election committee would not be bound to make any report; and, in a case like the present, it was of importance that a report should be produced. It would be referring the question to a fair test, if the House would enquire whether in case his hon. and learned friend had not presented this petition until the fourteen days for the reception of election petitions had elapsed, it would have closed its doors upon it as an election petition. He thought the House would then have received it, and accordingly
[194Mr. C. Tennyson
183 said, that he perfectly concurred with the worthy alderman as to the effects of the law. The intentions which had actuated those who originated the law were, he was convinced, most hu-
183Mr. E. J. Littleton
 said, that as the answer returned by the different post-agents was merely confined to the fact of the papers being in the same state as they were when they left the office of the home department, he wished to ask the hon. gentleman, whether the portfolio was or was not unlocked, during the time it remained under the care of the home department.Mr. F. Douglas
 said, that as he saw a gentleman belonging to the home department now in his place, he should take the opportunity of putting a new questions to him. A certain foreigner had been seized under the Alien act, on the 14th of last November, and sent out of the country. One of the provisions of that act was, that any individual arrested under it should be carried, if he wished to appeal against the execution of the sentence, before the privy council. He understood that this foreigner had expressed his determination of making this appeal, but had not been allowed to do so. He wished to know what explanation could be given of these circumstances, and under what authority they had also seized his papers.Mr. F. Douglas
 suggested to the hon. mover whether it would not be right to limit the scope of this bill to the 1st of April next. If this suggestion were not adopted, he would vote for postponing the discussion until Friday next.Mr. Holme Sumner
 said, that this was a petition precisely similar to one which was presented last year. He had then said, before the city of London could claim the funds of others for their own purposes, they ought first to show that their own funds were insufficient. He had then moved for certain accounts in order to ascertain this. No answer was returned to the order for these accounts for more than three months, and at last, instead of complying with the order, the city of London presented a petition to the House to reconsider the matter: in short, rather than show the accounts, the city of London withdrew their bill. He now gave notice, that whenever they moved for leave to bring in a bill for the object in question, he should move for the production of the accounts of the city.Mr. Holme Sumner
 said, he had received a letter from Leeds, complaining that such a petition was to come up, that it had been privately circulated, and that no public meeting had been held.Mr. Tierney
 observed, that he did not know the bankers had been so artful. He only wished that all the petitions which they were to have, had been presented that day, that they might see whether they all came from the same shop. Meantime he wished to ask, was this petition the result of any meeting.Mr. Tierney
[190 said, it was material to trace the origin of this petition. He begged, therefore, to ask, the hon. member, whether the petition was the result of any public meeting of the bodies in whose names it was drawn out? Was, there, in fact, any public meeting at all? He put this question because he had heard that certain active persons, well known in the metropolis, had prepared petitions here, and sent them down to
[190Mr. Tierney
[188ex post facto said, that the act which the present bill was intended to renew, had passed in 1811, it was repassed in 1813, and had expired a month ago. The bill only continued for a year longer what had been law for eight years. He wished to have the bill passed before the circumstances could arise which would be affected by the bill, which seemed to him to be directly the reverse of an [188ex post factoMr. Bennet
 said, that the first of April would be rather an awkward day but he had no objection to the first of May. He never meant to propose this as a permanent measure; on the contrary, it was his intention hereafter to move for a committee, to take the whole subject into consideration.Mr. Bennet
 said, that the urgency of present circumstances evidently admitted of no delay. This bill must pass, or the election must take place, without any act existing on the subject. The shortness of its duration would, however, soon afford ample opportunity for inquiry and deliberation.Mr. Bennet
 brought up the report of the committee on this bill. On the motion that it be agreed to,Mr. Bennet
 said, that the bill was only to continue for one year what had been law for six years. He was very willing that a committee should be appointed, to inquire whether the candidates or the dean and chapter (neither of whom he did not know to be legally liable) should be charged with the expenses of the hustings. But he believed it would be agreed on all sides, that the high bailiff should not be saddled with the expenses. He therefore could not consent to postpone the bill, at a time when they were on the eve of another election for Westminster; and when an individual might be ready without the slightest hope of success, to raise a disturbance in Westminster, and, from a vindictive spirit towards the high bailiff, compel him to raise hustings and keep open a fourteen days poll, with the expense of which he would attempt to saddle that officer.Mr. Bennet
ex post facto[184 said, he quite agreed with his hon. friend, the worthy alderman, and with the hon. gentleman who spoke last, that this was an important question, which ought to be maturely considered; he quite agreed with them, that it ought to be duly and carefully weighed, from the immense interests which were at stake on the issue. Its operations on the mercantile, the general and trading interests, and on the administration of justice, were of the highest importance, and alike entitled this act to the most serious and cool consideration. He did not mean on the present occasion to anticipate a discussion which would be more regular at a future period, but he could not allow the statements which had just been made to go forth to the world without protesting against them in one point of view. These statements, or at least the great point or principle upon which they were founded, though guarded with some special qualifications, went generally against the whole measure. He objected to this sweeping way of denouncing the act, and particularly to the manner in which the comparisons seemed to be made. The comparison between the state of this particular law now, and the previous state, should not be made upon an ideal standard of law which never did exist, but upon what was the actual fact, and then, indeed, a fair estimate might be made of the practice in one case and in the other. If hon. gentlemen meant to make a fair comparison, they must refer to the former practice, which was, to pass every year or
ex post facto[184Mr. Brougham
191 said, that he had not a minute of the facts, to which he could then refer for the accuracy of his statement,
191Mr. H. Clive
 replied, that it went back to the owner in precisely the same state in which it was brought, except with the addition of a paper cover, fastened with the government seal.Mr. H. Clive
189 rose to present a petition from the principal merchants and manufacturers of Leeds, praying that the Bank might not be called upon to resume its cash payments at the present crisis. He was advised that there were several other petitions of the same tenor now preparing in that quarter of the
189Mr. Stuart Wortley
 said, that he did not intend to oppose the motion, but he wished for a little explanation. The votes of the last year would have been exhausted on the 25th of December, and he begged to be informed how the operations of government had gone on from that date to the present without any new vote by parliament. At least a month's pay had become due to the army subsequent to the 25th of December last, and in what way had that been furnished?Mr. Calcraft
[186 thought the better course would be for the citizens of Westminster to erect some permanent place, which would answer for the business of their elections without being obliged, on every occasion to erect a hustings, as was the present practice. He thought that this measure should not be pressed through the house in such a hurry, and that time ought to be given to ascertain whether funds could not elsewhere be found for the purpose. If the office of high bailiff was, as was said, an office of considerable emolument, and one for the purchase of which a large sum was given, it might be necessary to see if this expense could with any degree of justice be attached to it. He was quite of opinion that no burthen of this nature ought to be thrown upon the freedom of election, and the postponement of the report for a day or two could not affect the approaching election, and some permanent arrangement might be made which would prevent
[186Mr. Curwen
 begged to take that opportunity of putting a question to ministers, whether it was in their contemplation to afford any relief to the navy, from the hardships of impressment? No season for such a proceeding could be more propitious than the present, when we were in a state of profound peace with all the world. The system of impressment was a stain upon the country.Mr. Birch
 submitted to the house, whether they would allow a bill, not yet printed or known to the members, to be passed in so hasty a manner. The hon. gentleman who had brought this bill forward was, on all former occasions, one of the readiest persons to demand inquiry; but on the present occasion, he was most hostile to it, and said, if not in form, at least in substance, "Do the act first, and then inquire into the reasons for doing it." He must consider the whole of the proceedings in this affair as most rash and precipitate, and must in consequence, deprecate them with all the ability in his power.Mr. Hume
l.185 said, that but for an accident, he should have had that day a petition to present against this bill, and on that ground he wished the further proceedings on it to be postponed. The act which the present bill was intended to renew, was passed in 1811, professedly only for two years, in which time inquiry was to have been made. It had been continued from that time to the present, and no inquiry had ever taken place. It threw the whole expense of the hustings on the candidates. The petition which he should have the honour to present would show that there were funds
l.185Mr. Hume
[202ferœ naturœ201ferœ naturœ. pursuant to his notice, rose to call the attention of the House to the state of the law as it respected wild animals reclaimed from their original barbarism and natural ferocity. He was aware that he might be exposing himself to some degree of ridicule by leading the House into such a discussion. There were honourable gentlemen on the other side of the House, whom, however, he did not then see in their places, who, from their manner of treating his observations on a recent occasion, might perhaps allege that he had undertaken this subject from a fellow feeling, he being himself [202ferœ naturœ201ferœ naturœ.Mr. Lawson,
 expressed his satisfaction at hearing that it was at length determined by the right hon. gentleman to propose that arrangement upon the subject of public balances, which he himself had so long and so eagerly sought to establish.Mr. Grenfell
l.[198l.l.l. did not rise to make any opposition to the motion, but he availed himself of the opportunity to press upon the attention of the House the necessity of obtaining for the public a participation in the profits of the Bank—profits arising from the balances of the public money in their hands. The House were aware that two loans, as the Bank termed them, one of six millions, the other of three millions, had been made by the Bank to the public. The loan of three millions was negotiated in consequence of the investigations of the committee of that House in the year 1807, when it was concluded between Mr. Perceval and the Bank of England, that such a sum should be advanced, free of interest, to the public, on the admitted ground of the right of the public to participate in profits wholly arising from the large balances belonging to it, of which that body availed themselves to their own advantage in the same way as any other bankers did. The amount of these balances was between ten and eleven millions, and had continued undiminished until the year 1817. He regretted that the hon. member for Corfe Castle and also the right hon. gentleman at the head of the department of Woods and forests were not in their places, as he could appeal to them whether he was not fully authorized in asserting that this loan of three millions was concluded on the express condition of being granted without interest, and as a compensation to the public for its share in the participation of the profits of the Bank. The period of that loan of three millions without interest expired in April last, and as it had not been paid off, the country was now giving the Bank interest upon it to the amount of 120,000l.[198l.l.l.Mr. Grenfell
[200 observed, that the right hon. gentleman had not attempted to controvert any point advanced by his hon. friend. On the contrary, the right hon. gentleman had expressed his intention to adopt the suggestions of his hon. friend, and to act upon his views. This he had heard with peculiar satisfaction. But there was one point connected with this subject, to which he was surprised to find his hon. friend had omitted to make any allusion. His hon. friend had forcibly animadverted upon the extraordinary transaction of the Bank lending three millions to the public without interest, on the condition, forsooth, that the public balances amounting, on an average of several years, to ten millions, should be allowed to remain in its hands. But his hon. friend had omitted to ask, why those balances should be at all deposited in the Bank? Such a system of deposit appeared to him inconsistent with the provision of the several appropriation acts: upon what ground was it that the money appropriated by these acts, was not advanced according as it was required, for the use of the army, the navy, or any other department of the public service, for which it was voted, instead of being transferred to the Bank? Why should not such advances be made by the exchequer itself, to each of the public departments, instead of being sent to the Bank? Such a system appeared to him quite incomprehensible upon any fair public grounds. The chancellor of the
[200Mr. P. Moore
 stated that this petition was of some importance. The subject had been before the house last session, and also a former session; it had undergone discussion in a committee of the House, and he believed the abuses stated in the petition were fully established. The committee had recommended a bill to be brought in, but there were difficulties in the way of it. Being a money bill, it could only be brought in with the consent of his majesty's ministers. He thought it would be proper to refer the petition to a committee, consisting of the members of the city of London, of Surrey, and others more particularly interested in the matter. In the mean time he moved that the petition do lie on the table—Ordered.Mr. Alderman Waithman
l.l.[182181 said, that the petition they had just heard, was not less important than any petition presented during the present session: not less important than the petition presented the other day for a revision of the criminal law. It was a petition from the city of London praying the house not to renew the Insolvent Debtors bill. He had had many opportunities of witnessing the conduct of the citizens of London, and forming an opinion respecting their character, and this he could safely say, that so far from being deficient in humanity, they would be as ready as the inhabitants of any part of the kingdom to agree to any measure for the relief of insolvent and distressed persons. With respect to this measure, however good might be the intentions of those by whom it was introduced, he would not hesitate to say, that no act ever passed that house, which made so complete an inroad on the property of traders, or which gave a more deadly blow to the morals of the people. It not only-afforded an easy indemnity to the dishonest part of the community, but held out an encouragement to vice and profligacy of every description. In addition to these grievances, the bill, in its present form, had totally superseded that pride and bulwark of our constitution, the trial by jury. It, in fact, invested in the judge of the
l.l.[182181Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, he had not satin the House last session, nor had he taken a part in the debates on the subject elsewhere. He would however say, that the corporation of London were ready to show all the accounts which, in common fairness, they were bound to show to the House; and they would make it appear, that their application in this case was founded on reason and justice. They not only supported their own prisoners, but also those of the county of Middlesex. Now, the prisoners of the county of Middlesex were, to those of the city of London, in the proportion of five to one. When it became necessary for the city of London to erect a new prison at a great expense, chiefly on account of the prisoners of the county of Middlesex, surely it was but fair and reasonable that they should derive assistance from the Orphan Fund.Mr. Waithman
 said, that after the consideration he had given this subject since he had presented the petition, he was ready to view it in the same light as the hon. and learned gentleman. He therefore wished to withdraw the petition, for the purpose of enabling the petitioners to make their own election of the course they should take.Mr. Denman
 said, that the House was called on to pass a bill of whose object it appeared to him that it was utterly ignorant. For his own part, he must observe, that it was unknown to him, and that therefore he could not support it. The reasons which had been urged by hon. gentlemen to induce the house to pass this bill in a hurry, inclined him to pause before he gave his sanction to it; and he should therefore willingly second the proposition for time to inquire whether the high bailiff had any funds with which to defray these expenses, and whether there was any place in which the hustings could be permanently held and the expenses incurred in erecting them avoided in future. He scarcely knew what the law on the subject was, and he believed that other gentlemen were in a similar state of ignorance. This was an additional reason for delay. It might be hard on the high bailiff, if he had to pay the expenses incurred in the election out of his own pocket; but he would rather indemnify him for them by an express act of the legislature, than impose them on others by the operation of an ex post facto Jaw like the present.Mr. Denman
l. rose to say a few words on the petition from certain inhabitants of the city of Oxford, presented on a former evening, which complained of the interference of the duke of Marlborough in the election of representatives for that city in parliament. He observed, that as this petition had stated that 2,500l.Sir Arthur Piggott
193 observed, that the act of parliament said, that when an election, petition had been presented, an order
193The Speaker
[196 said, he was well aware of the importance of the subject in all its bearings, and hoped that the House would not expect him to give any positive and distinct answer on the sudden. It was certainly a question to which ministers had turned their most anxious attention; but they felt also the danger of holding out any thing that might lead to misapprehension. Impressment was a part of the ancient system of the country, and though it certainly was attended with disadvantages and inconveniences, it had produced, he believed, far greater benefits than any evils it had occasioned. He had it in his power, however, to state, that effective measures had been taken to
[196Sir G. Warrender
s.l.s.l.l.l.l.d.s.l.l. said, he should only state, in moving the estimates for the havy, that the number of seamen would be the same as last year; yet a considerable saving had taken place in that branch of the public expenditure; and that saving had been effected by placing the whole of the naval force kept up in a state of activity, which supplied the deficiency of numbers and rendered their increase unnecessary. He then moved, 1. "That 20,000 men be employed for the sea service, for thirteen lunar months, from the 1st Jan. 1819, including 6,000 royal marines. 2. That 565,500s.l.s.l.l.l.l.d.s.l.l.Sir G. Warrender
 thought the operation of the present bill could not be said to affect the freedom of election. It was surely very hard, if an individual who had in fact caused the expense should refuse to pay the amount which the law justified, and which was absolutely necessary, and that the whole should fall on the high bailiff. He thought it would be equally hard to throw the expense on the inhabitants generally. In his opinion the candidates were the proper persons on whom it should fall.Sir M. W. Ridley
 then moved, "That a sum, not exceeding one million, be granted to his majesty, towards defraying the charge of his majesty's Land Forces for service at home and abroad (excepting the regiments employed in the Territorial Possessions of the East India Company), for the year 1819."Lord Palmerston
l.l.d.[206s.d.s. presented a petition from certain manufacturers and inhabitants of the Parish of St. Saviour, Southwark, against the present high duties on Coals. The petitioners complained that it was a most unequal and oppressive duty, and was an imposition contrary to all principles of fair taxation. They stated that the duty paid in the metropolis, in the counties of Surrey, and of Kent, was 9l.l.d.[206s.d.s.Mr. Calvert
l.[210209"To the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in parliament assembled:—The petition of the undersigned electors of Westminster,— presented the following petition against this bill:
l.[210209"To the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in parliament assembled:—The petition of the undersigned electors of Westminster,—Sir Francis Burdett
211, in reference to the Papers relating to the Congress at Aix la Chapelle (see p. 168), observed, that other papers yet remained, which he should be able to present in a few days. Those documents were of a most important nature. He alluded particularly to the correspondence which had passed on the subject of the slave-trade, and to certain documents which contained an official statement of the modifications of the instalments of the contributions to be paid on the part of France, and agreed upon between the
211Lord Castlereagh
213 rose to present a petition to the House upon the same subject. The petition was signed by about 200 most respectable and intelligent inhabitants of Liverpool, and not only was to the same purport, but, he believed, in the very words of the last petition. It was signed by individuals entertaining a variety of political sentiments, and he believed about half the bankers in Liverpool had affixed their names to the petition. This was a question of peculiar interest to the county of Lancaster, as the whole circulation of that county was in Bank of England notes; and in this respect the observations of the right hon. gentleman could not apply. There was one peculiarity in this petition, that one of the gentlemen who had signed it, had thought proper to enter into an explanation of the motives by which he had been actuated in affixing his name to it. He (Mr. Canning) had had full liberty to erase that explanation, if he had thought pro-per; but conceiving that it was not inconsistent with the forms of the House, and that the petitioner had concurred in the general prayer of the petition, he had not struck it out. This gentleman was a man of the highest respectability, and of some
213Mr. Canning
[236235[234233[232231[230 regretted that the right hon. gentleman had so soon laid aside all the ideas of conciliation and unanimity, which a few days before he had professed with respect to this great question, to adopt, on this occasion, the language of mere vulgar party feeling. He begged the House to notice how the question stood between the right hon. gentleman and himself. On the second day of the session, the right hon. gentleman had given notice of a motion for an inquiry into the state of public credit— a notice, the terms of which were, as the right hon. gentleman himself had perceived, so very vague and objectionable, that soon after he voluntarily abandoned it, on account of the alarm which he confessed it had occasioned. But what had happened in the interval? Why, he (the chancellor of the exchequer) had given notice of his intention to move for such a com-
[236235[234233[232231[230The Chancellor of the Exchequer
249[248247[246║245***[244***243[242241 felt that the discussion was comprehended within so narrow a compass (and on that point he had to express his obligations to the right hon. mover, and to the hon. gentleman who last spoke) as to render it unnecessary to make any thing like a speech, or to branch at large into the great principles involved in a more general inquiry. Though the grounds of difference as to the object of the motion between the right hon. gentleman and his right hon. friend, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, were few, yet he should support the proposition of the latter, because his motion was more precise, and went more directly to its purpose. They were all agreed, not only as to the necessity of inquiry, but to an inquiry of the utmost latitude, on a subject which he confessed to be of great and immense importance, Great stress had been laid by the right hon. gentleman on the fact of the Chancellor of the Exchequer having, when first the question was brought before the House that session, avowed that no inquiry was in his judgment necessary. If that was a source of triumph, he would give the right hon. gentleman a more extended ground for gratification, ready as he (lord C.) was to declare, that he also joined in that opinion, believing, as he did, under the circumstances, that an inquiry at this moment was neither necessary nor expedient; that for every purpose whence advantage from such a course could be derived, it would have been more expedient to have waited until the next session of parliament. If, indeed, he viewed the question in the same light as the right hon. gentleman, if he thought that without risking the truest interests of the country, the Bank should resume its cash payments in March twelve-month, there could be no reason either for inquiry now, or at a future period. But thinking differently on that point, he felt that from
249[248247[246║245***[244***243[242241Lord Castlereagh
267[266265"Ubi tu pulsas, ego vapulo tantum."[264263[262║261[260259[258257[256255[254, although he thought that all the general argument on the great question connected with the present motion might be advantageously postponed, until the report of the committee about to be appointed, should give a more favourable opportunity of treating it, and although, with that impression on his mind, it was his intention to trespass but for a very short time on the House, was persuaded they would feel, after the appeal, civil in the highest degree, which the right hon. gentleman had made to his opinion in particular, that he should not deal fairly, either by himself, or by the House, if he did not shortly state the grounds on which he should give his vote on the present motion. The question at issue was, not whether the restriction on cash payments should be continued for reasons of common notoriety, or such as any honourable member might collect by his own research, for his own information; or, whether that restriction should be continued without any inquiry at all— but, all parties allowing some inquiry to be expedient, the question of this evening
267[266265"Ubi tu pulsas, ego vapulo tantum."[264263[262║261[260259[258257[256255[254Mr. Canning
[208l.207"To the honourable the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in parliament assembled:—The Petition of Henry Hunt of Middleton Cottage, in the county of Southampton, esq.;— presented a petition from Mr. Hunt, against this bill. The hon. member declared, that in presenting this petition, he begged the house to be assured, that he brought the matter forward as a member of that house, and that he by no means wished to be considered as partaking in any of the views or principles of the petitioner.—The petition was then brought up, and read, as follows:
[208l.207"To the honourable the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in parliament assembled:—The Petition of Henry Hunt of Middleton Cottage, in the county of Southampton, esq.;—Mr. D. W. Harvey
 was happy to see that at least there was one individual who was not ashamed of openly declaring his opinion. This was the most honest signature he had ever seen to any petition. The signer spoke out manfully, and declared what his real sentiments were; he disguised nothing, and seemed to be afraid of nothing. He earnestly wished that this noble example should be followed by others.Mr. Tierney
229[228l.227prima facie[226225[224223l.l.[222221[220219[218217[216215[214 said, he rose in pursuance of the notice which he had given, to propose to the House a resolution for the appointment of a committee to institute an inquiry into one of the most important subjects which could possibly engage the attention of the House. The motion with which he should conclude would be for a committee to inquire into the effects produced on the exchanges with foreign countries, and the state of the circulating medium, by the restriction on payments in cash by the Bank, and to report whether any and what reasons exist for continuing the same beyond the period now fixed by law
229[228l.227prima facie[226225[224223l.l.[222221[220219[218217[216215[214Mr. Tierney
275[274273[272271[270 hoped that the House would indulge him with its attention for a short time, while he felt himself called upon to reply to some remarks which had been advanced by the gentlemen on the opposite side. He could not help ob-
275[274273[272271[270Mr. Tierney
 denied that he had used any language which could be termed disrespectful to Mr. Hunt. No word had ever dropped from him, which had the slightest allusion to the conduct of that gentleman.Mr. Bennet
 presented a petition from certain merchants of Halifax, praying, that the Bank Restriction act might be renewed. He was ready to admit, that some bankers had affixed their names to this petition, and confessed he did not see what objection could be made to it. He did not know how far a right hon. gentleman meant to carry the principle which he had laid down; but it certainly appeared to him, on a question of this nature, involving so many intricate points, and embracing so many delicate topics, that bankers, who were so much concerned in money transactions, were most capable of judging, as being most acquainted with the subject.Mr. Stuart Wortley
[252l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.251l.l.l.l.l.l.[250 said, that he rose for the purpose of offering his opinion on this
[252l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.251l.l.l.l.l.l.[250Mr. Maberly
 said, he had examined, the returns laid on the table yesterday. It did not appear from them, that the Bank had reduced their issues during the, year 1818; on the contrary, the result was, that in the first six months of the year just expired, they had been not, only greater than in the preceding year, but greater than in any year from 1797 to the present. In the last six months some diminution had taken place but the Bank was entitled to little credit for that circumstance. The average issue of the year was between 27 and 28 millions.Mr. Grenfell
253 said, that as a new member he had no claim on the attention of the House, but that which the possession of a little stock of common sense, and he hoped a larger stock of honesty and independence, might give him. He could assure the House he had no bias on the subject. He had listened to every syllable uttered by the right hon. gentleman who moved the original proposition, and he had paid equal attention to all that had fallen from the right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer and the noble secretary of state. He assured the House, that if the impression which had been made upon his mind by the luminous exposition of the right hon. member for Knaresborough, had been in the smallest degree removed by the speeches of the right hon. gentleman and the noble lord opposite, he would freely confess it. But the reverse was the case. The noble lord cautioned the House against taking a false step. A false step, however, it would in his opinion, take, if it did not adopt the original motion. The noble lord had also talked of the legitimate elements of commerce. Now, he
253Mr. Bernal
 said, that as every man ought to vote according to his sense of right who claimed to be independent, he should briefly state his opinion on the present important question. As a new member of the House, he could not help expressing his surprise, that the first point selected for a division should be a point on which they were all agreed. They were all agreed, that the Bank ought to pay in specie, whenever that payment could be made with security; they were all agreed that a previous inquiry was necessary before such a payment was commenced; and the point on which they differed appeared to be nothing more than a simple point of etiquette: that point, stripped of all extraneous matter, reduced itself to this—whether the motion now under discussion had originated with the right hon. gentleman opposite or with his majesty's chancellor of the exchequer. Now it had been confessed, that the present motion was only a prelude to an inquiry into the state of public credit; and if it were so, then it was a motion originating with his majesty's ministers, though it might indeed have been amplified and enlarged by the right hon. gentleman. If he were called upon to vote on this question, he should vote for the amendment of the chancellor of the exchequer; because he conceived it to be more precise, distinct, and comprehensive fan the original motion.Mr. R. B. Cooper
[240239onus[238 said, he had listened attentively to every thing that had fallen from the right hon. gentleman opposite, and he confessed he had not heard a single word to justify the course which it seemed to be the intention of government to take on the present occasion. It had been already fixed by law, that the Bank should resume its cash payments on the 5th of July next; but now it appeared, that, upon an application from the Bank, the government had discovered that the Bank were unable to resume cash payments at the stipulated time. What eves effect the incomparable speech of the right hon. the mover of the original question had had on his mind, beyond all doubt the appalling speech of the chancellor of the exchequer had made it clear to a demonstration, that the present financial system was bad indeed. When he first entered into parliament, the events of war absorbed the public attention, and this subject was little considered; but it was now the most important topic that could occupy the mind of parliament and the public. Throughout the war it was held out that the restriction on cash payments by the Bank should cease with the cessation of the war. Yet now in the fourth year after that event, it was proposed to extend that restriction still farther. Upon the termination of the war, it was proposed to continue the restriction for two years, at the end of which it was solemnly promised that cash payments would be resumed. But when those two years had expired, it was again proposed to continue this restriction for another year, when it was positively to cease, the Bank being pledged to prepare for the event by the
[240239onus[238Mr. Frankland Lewis
269 said, that he preferred an open committee to a secret one, as more satisfactory to the public mind, for conducting an inquiry, in the result of which the interest of all were so deeply involved—an inquiry intended, to set at rest public anxiety, and to vindicate the credit of our circulation, not only at home, but throughout Europe. He did not agree with all the deductions in the report of the bullion committee. He would not allow that the unfavourable state of the exchanges was entirely owing
269Mr. Alderman Heygate
l.l.l.l.[268 said, that the Bank had not interfered in their call for inquiry, from any motive or views of private interest. The question of the restriction was a great national question, and not so much connected with the interests of the Bank as of the public. Indeed, the interests of the Bank, compared with those momentous considerations which entered into the present question, were, as had been truly expressed by his noble friend but as a fly upon the wheel. For any peculiar interest the Bank had in the decision come to on this subject, the House might fix upon any time they chose for the cessation of the restriction, without meeting with opposition from that body. They had manifested an inclination to fulfil the act which had been passed for a return to cash payments, and had actually paid a part of their notes in cash, in doing which they were accused of folly by an hon. gentleman opposite. They still, however were of opinion, that in that transaction they had behaved with laudable prudence and good faith, and had shown a proper deference to the will of the legislature; and in this opinion they were supported by his right hon. friend near him, who said he had hailed this partial payment as an omen of an approaching restoration of the sound currency of the country. The Bank was not only then of opinion that the restriction might be completely and safely removed at the period appointed by act of parliament, but they entertained the idea to a very late period. His right hon. friend had truly stated, that with this impression the Bank had issued between five and six millions of gold, which had in a short time entirely disappeared from circulation. The exchange had become unfavourable, which accounted for the disappearance of our coin; but still he was convinced that it was not entirely lost to the country; as without such an issue the exchange might have been still more unfavourable than it now was. That the Bank had not in other, respects lost sight of its duty, and had been making preparations for the resumption of cash payments, might be inferred from the contraction: of their issues, which would appear from the returns that would soon be laid on the table of the House. By those returns, it would be seen, that there
l.l.l.l.[268Mr. Manning
[212 said, he held in his hands a petition relating to a subject of the greatest importance, connected with a motion, of which notice had been given by an hon. friend of his, for an address to the Prince Regent, to institute some measures for the better administration of justice in the Northern counties. It was a petition from the inhabitants of the county and city of Norwich, containing, among other signatures, the names of the persons who served on the grand jury at the last assizes. The petitioners stated one extremely strong fact, which, he thought, would go far to induce the House to comply with the prayer of the petition, which was, for a more speedy gaol delivery for that city and county. In addition to all the other points, they stated, that a young man had been committed to gaol for an alleged crime; that when the indictment was compared with the depositions of the witnesses at the trial, there was such a disagreement between them, that it was necessary to remand him; that this occasioned a delay of more than a year before he could be brought to trial; and that, after remaining in prison nearly two years, he was found wholly innocent. If an imprisonment, conducted
[212Mr. W. Smith
 said, that, as to the taking off the duty on coals, he would give his support to any measure for that purpose, but when it was proposed to take this duty off for the purpose of laying it on the shoulders of others, to this he could never assent.Sir M. W. Ridley
 spoke in support of the petition. The duty, as it was at present raised, was, he said, at variance with all the just principles of taxation. The petitioners sought only for a fair distribution of the duty. He recommended that a bill should be introduced for this purpose.Sir Robert Wilson
237 said, that upon a question of such magnitude, involving such a variety of considerations which came home to the bosoms and business of every man in the country, it was impossible for any man not to feel a most lively interest. The fate of the country might, indeed, be well said to depend upon the issue of this question. It was, no doubt, absolutely necessary that such a country as ours should have a large extensive circulating medium, for the accommodation of the public; but then such medium should possess some settled value. This was not the case with Bank-notes, because they were not convertible into cash; and why they were not so convertible, was the
237Sir W. De Crespigny
 suggested, whether it would not be better that ministers should hand in the list of names they had prepared, and so save the House much unnecessary trouble, and a round-about way of proceeding, which would only end in what he proposed.Sir F. Burdett
 expressed himself of the same opinion. It was quite impossible for the House and the country not to see that the ministers had the naming of the committee.Mr. Bennet
 said, that till he heard a better reason for departing from the usual practice, he should adhere to that practice.Mr. Dent
 said, that since it was already perfectly well known and determined who were to be the committee, he would rather decline taking any part in picking up their names.Mr. Lambton
 said, that he had to apologise to the hon. gentleman, if he had named him to an office which was unacceptable to him. No names for the committee in question had been handed to him, and he had, at the moment, fixed upon those who occurred to him as fit to discharge the duty.The Speaker
[282 said, that there was no doubt that his hon. friend was fit for any duty which required impartiality; but there had been so little impartiality in the proceeding hitherto, that he should think it hard that the ministers, after having settled in private who should be the members of the committee, should show their impartiality by detaining for an hour or two a gentleman who had no interest in their proceedings. As they bad settled the list of the committee, they might as well name the scrutineers also.[282Mr. Tierney
 said, that he should be sorry to be supposed to have included in his charge all the members of the House. But he could tell the hon. gentleman, who was not, he believed, a member of the last parliament, that he had found, from uniform experience, that the same lists were found, by the same accident, on the table of a great number of other gentlemen, and, by the same uniform experience he had found that those who possessed the independence of the hon. member were in the minority, and the majority was composed of those who put the lists in the glass just in the same state as they had found them on their tables.Mr. Tierney
 said, that he had found no list on his table [a laugh.]Mr. Waithman
285[284l.l.l.l.l.283 said he should have been strongly inclined to forward any measure which would indemnify the gentleman for whose relief this bill was intended, from any unforeseen expenses which had fallen on him, if his public duty allowed him so to do. But on the consideration of this question, divested of private feelings, he could not agree that the gentleman who held the office of high bailiff of Westminster should be allowed to throw off his own shoulders the burthen of an office which he voluntarily had undertaken. Not only had this task been voluntarily undertaken, but he had paid a large sum of money for the office. The law which the
285[284l.l.l.l.l.283Sir F. Burdett
l. observed, that although all sheriffs, and other returning officers in the country, were indemnified for any expense connected with elections, the high bailiff of Westminster should in equity be excepted from such indemnity: the services of the former being compulsory, while that of the latter Were voluntary. The former were compellable by law to accept their offices, and to discharge the duties attached to them; but the high bailiff had taken his office from choice, and for the acquisition of profit. This, indeed, appeared from the report of the committee with respect to that office, the high bailiff having confessedly paid 5,000l.MR. D W. Harvey
[278 said, he should have been guilty of great presumption, had he taken any part in the discussion of last evening. He could hot say the result of that discussion met with his entire approbation; but from the list which he had that day seen circulated, he indulged in the expectation of a satisfactory result. Whatever his views upon the subject might have been, he was, at all events, now glad to find that the question was not likely to be taken up as one of party. A noble lord whom he did not then see in his place, had said much about the influence of the exchanges on the resumption of cash payments; but had that noble lord referred to the right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer, for the cause of the depression of exchanges, he would have found a truer one than any which be had assigned. The right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer, when stating that he would bring in a bill for the restriction of cash payments until
[278Mr. Ellice
 observed, that he had not said any thing relative to the fairness of the committee, not knowing much of the members who were to constitute it. He had merely expressed his satisfaction, that persons were included in the committee from whose efforts he expected some benefit to the country.Mr. Ellice
 said, that had he been in the House, when the petition from Bristol was presented by his hon. colleague, he should have borne testimony to the respectability of those persons by whom it had been signed. With regard to the petition itself, he could only stale, that he had received no letter, nor instruction whatsoever on the subject.Mr. Protheroe
 said, he had no doubt of the respectability of the signatures, but he objected to it on account of the manner in which those signatures had been obtained. He would put a question to the hon. gentleman. Was it, or was it not, a fact, that at a meeting of a club, of which Mr. alderman Daniel was chairman, that petition was put (whether by accident or not he should not inquire) into the hands of the chairman, in order to obtain the signatures of the members? He understood that all the signatures affixed to it, with the exception of one, were obtained in that club; and now it was brought forward purporting to be the petition of the inhabitants of Bristol. The fact was, that one half of the persons who had signed it, did not know what the object of the petition was.Mr. Tierney
 said, that they signed in one capacity, and acted in another.Mr. Tierney
 said, he hoped ministers would withdraw one of the names on their list, in order to introduce the name of his hon. and learned friend beside him; because he was sure it would be admitted, from every part of the House, that there was no man in the country from whom so much assistance could be derived, on an inquiry of this kind, as from his hon. and learned friend. He was not now talking with reference to political parties—his object was not a party question at all. He was sure nothing would give more general satisfaction to the country, than the adding the name of his hon. and learned friend to a committee of inquiry Into any branch of political economy, but especially into a subject like the present.Mr. Tierney
having moved that the bill be now read a third time,Mr. Bennet 
287l.l.l.l. observed, that no one but the hon. baronet had maintained the singular doctrine, that the expense attending the erection of hustings for the Westminster election should be defrayed by the high bailiff. If, indeed, this doctrine were admitted, in what a situation would, the high bailiff be placed! Seven years had elapsed since this officer had purchased his office, and if the hon. baronet's doctrine were established, he must have lost within that period no less than 3,000287l.l.l.l.Mr. Bennet
279 said, that he also had seen the treasury list, but he could not agree with his hon. friend that it was a fair list. It was unfair, in his opinion, on the very principle laid down by the honourable gentlemen opposite themselves; the principle laid down by them was, that the committee should consist of those members who were most conversant in the matters which were connected with the subject of the inquiry. Now, the leaving out of this list an hon. and learned friend of his (Mr. Brougham), who was as well, indeed he might say, who was better qualified for such an inquiry than almost any member in that House, was, to say the least of it, a gross deviation from candour. Besides, there were fourteen of the members who voted with ministers, to seven of the members who voted on the opposition side of the House. He could not therefore agree with his hon. friend in thinking this
279Mr. Calcraft
 said, he did not intend to oppose the reception of the petition, but he begged to state, that he understood it was got up by a club of merchants, without any public meeting whatever; and he therefore rose to enter his protest against the petition being received, as that of the merchants, bankers, and manufacturers of Bristol.Mr. Lambton
 observed, that the ton. mover had pat the question for the consideration of the house on this occasion rather unfairly. For the question was not, whether the high bailiff should pay the expense of a Westminster election or not, but whether that expense should be defrayed by the dean and chapter. This was the real question, and upon this he felt himself called to vote for the amendment, in order to afford time for examination. It was a principle always maintained by the chancellor of the exchequer, that where any man could obtain redress in a court of law, he was not entitled to make an appeal to that house. The high bailiff in making his contract for the purchase of his place, ought to have been apprized of the expenses to which be was liable in the execution of its duties. If so, he bad no grievance to complain of on the point before the house; but if not, he had his remedy by law, being entitled to tell the dean and chapter, that if they would not pay the expenses connected with the Westminster election, they must make the return themselves.Mr. Hume
[286 said, that in a constitutional point of view he thought there were serious objections to the bill. He did not think that the expenses of elections should fall upon any of the candidates— not, certainly, on the unsuccessful candidate. It was unreasonable to demand that the political criminal should defray the expense of erecting that scaffold on which had been executed his hopes, his character, and not unfrequently his fortune. Nor was it fair at this game, that the loser should pay for the tables. According to the good old practice of the constitution, candidates were paid for their attendance in parliament, on the principle that elections took place for the benefit of the people; and he did not see why this practice should have been discontinued; for members ought to be remunerated for their trouble, whatever might be thought upon the subject by those who resorted to taverns instead of attending that House, and who looked for their remuneration to some casual extortion or unduly acquired place. But the opinion of such persons could have no weight with him [a cry of question!] He was surprised at the haste with which the hon. mover sought to press this measure. Although a professed advocate for parliamentary reform, the hon. member would not allow time to inquire upon a subject so interesting to the public. It was strange that the hon. mover, who was the other night such an advocate for in-
[286Mr. Lawson
[280 remarked, that the greater the unanimity of opinion that existed among the members of the committee, the more likely they would be to promote the object for which they were appointed. It was on this principle that he preferred a committee elected by ballot. He knew a case in which an order had been signed by two justices at their respective mansions, and the order was afterwards found to be illegal, because the justices had signed it separately. Let a man collect at random all the most elegant features that could be found, and pat them together, they would form a very ugly face. In the twenty-one names which were to compose the committee, he would propose the alteration of one, in order, as a gen-
[280Mr. Lawson
 said, that whatever might be thought of the political sentiments of those who had signed the petition, he could only repeat, that he had never presented one more respectably sighed,Mr. Hart Davis
277║ said, he held in his hand a Petition from the merchants, bankers and manufacturers of Bristol, the prayer of which was against a too speedy Resumption of Cash Payments. It was stated to be the petition of the bankers of Bristol, as well as of the merchants and manufacturers; but on looking at the signatures, he did not see that it had been signed by any bankers, as bankers. However, when any of the partners in banking-houses happened also to be en-engaged in other concers, they had signed it, not as bankers, but as traders.277║Mr. Hart Davis
 said, that what the right hon. gentleman had stated was wholly new to him, for he had not even heard that the petition had been given to alderman Daniel. Of all those who had signed it, there was not one connected with a banking house. It was true, that some of them were both bankers and merchants; but it was in the latter capacity that they had signed the petition.Mr. Hart Davis
l. followed on the same side. He observed, that in his opposition to this measure, he did not mean to act invidiously towards the high bailiff, but he thought that the dean and chapter should rather be called upon to pay the expenses of the election. The law, he said, required that every member of parliament should be possessed of 300l.Sir R. Wilson
 thought it impossible to adopt any other course than that which had been suggested by the Speaker, and hoped the gallant officer would be of the same opinion, and would move that Mr. Quin be ordered to attend the house.Lord Castlereagh
 stated, that the subject had been some time under the consideration of his majesty's government. In the report of the committee, no specific mode by which the advantage could be obtained, was pointed out. He could only assure the house, that the subject was now under the consideration of his majesty's government, and that an arrangement was in contemplation which would, he believed, give general satisfaction.The Solicitor General
 rebutted the charge of supineness, which had been made against the administration. The remedy for the evil complained of was not so easily found as had been asserted. In proof of this, he should mention that two great authorities had differed upon it, the hon. and learned mover, and the hon. and learned gentleman, who had made this charge against the government. The hon. and learned mover had given it as his opinion, that the remedy was to be effected by increasing the number of the judges, but the hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last had thought nothing more fatal than such a step. The real difficulty was so to distribute the time of the judges, overwhelmed as they were with business, as to enable them to perform this additional duty. As the house seemed disposed to receive the motion with unanimity, he should not trouble it with farther remarks.Lord Castlereagh
"The Prince Regent is satisfied that he may confidently rely on the loyal attachment of the House of Commons to enable him, upon the reduction of that establishment, to grant to the several individuals belonging to it such allowances as it has been usual for the crown to bestow on former occasions, when the royal family has been visited with a similar affliction. G. P. R"l"The Prince Regent, acting in the name and on the behalf of his majesty, acquaints the House of Commons, that the sum of 58,000l"GEORGE P. E. presented the following Message from the Prince Regent:
"The Prince Regent is satisfied that he may confidently rely on the loyal attachment of the House of Commons to enable him, upon the reduction of that establishment, to grant to the several individuals belonging to it such allowances as it has been usual for the crown to bestow on former occasions, when the royal family has been visited with a similar affliction. G. P. R"l"The Prince Regent, acting in the name and on the behalf of his majesty, acquaints the House of Commons, that the sum of 58,000l"GEORGE P. E.Lord Castlereagh
 then moved aft Address of thanks to his Royal Highness for his most gracious message, assuring his Royal Highness that the House would proceed to take the same into their immediate consideration. The motion was agreed to.Lord Castlereagh
305ll[304303lll[302l301lllllll[300l,lllllllll299l[298 then rose. He said, that the House having already expressed their deep and heartfelt condolence, in common with the nation, on the death of her late majesty, they had now to perform another part of their duty, by taking into consideration the measures which grew out of that event. As he had been absent on that former occasion, he should now take the opportunity of briefly expressing his sense of the services which her late majesty had rendered to the nation by the bright example which she had set during the fifty-seven years that she had shared the throne with her illustrious consort, of which the morals of the country would long feel the benefit. Her unaffected piety and purity of morals, and, above all, her unostentatious charity would long continue to operate on the habits of the community. It remained for him to state the measures which were rendered necessary by her majesty's demise. Those measures might be brought under two heads—I, The measures which were necessary to provide for the care of his majesty's person; and, 2. The disposition of the funds connected with the Windsor establishment, and the establishment of her late majesty. As to the first head, a bill had been brought down from the other House, and was now on the table for the 2nd reading, the effect of which was to appoint the duke of York custos of the king's person, in the room of her late majesty. As there was not a second opinion in the House and the country as to that appointment, he should not say any thing on that branch of the arrangement; for, so long as the principle was acknowledged, which he conceived to be founded in sound policy, that the executive government, and the care of the person of the monarch, should not be vested in the same person, there could be no other member of the royal family more fit for the latter duty than his royal highness the duke of York, or more likely to have been chosen by his majesty himself, were he in a situation to make a choice. He should now advert to
305ll[304303lll[302l301lllllll[300l,lllllllll299l[298Lord Castlereagh
ll307custos personœllcustos personœl[306 fully agreed with the noble lord, that in the reductions which it might be necessary to make in the instance of the Windsor establishment, a principle should be observed different from those which should guide reductions on ordinary occasions. He freely admitted, that all the reductions on that establishment should be made on the most liberal principles. Not following the example which might be set in the case of any other individual, if he might use the expression, he conceived that no wish for reduction and retrenchment should operate so far as to deprive the august person of majesty of any thing which could in any degree contribute to his comfort and convenience in every respect. No disposition to economy should divest him of that state and splendor, however great might be his bodily afflictions, and however much these might render inert the capacity of enjoying them. It was necessary for the honour of the country, for the great respect due to royalty, that under every circumstance, a degree of splendor should surround the royal person; and therefore he fully agreed with the noble lord, that the reduction in the present instance should be more limited, than in other cases the state of the country required. But to express this concurrence with the noble lord was not the only purpose for which he rose: he had more than one object in addressing the house; he wished to ask the noble lord one or two questions. The noble lord had said, that the same salary which had been given to the queen, should now be given to the duke of York, for the care of the royal person. He did not conceive why this should be the case. If he remembered rightly, when this question was brought forward in 1812, the chancellor
ll307custos personœllcustos personœl[306Mr. Long Wellesley
 disclaimed the slightest intention of expressing any disrespect for his royal highness the duke of York, for whom he felt the utmost deference, knowing his royal highness, as he did, to pre-sent a signal example of eminent virtue in a great prince.Mr. L. Wellesley
[318ll317lll[316lll315llllll[314maître d'hotel.313llllllll[312ll311[310l309 was glad that this question was brought before the House in so satisfactory a manner—satisfactory, because it did not call for immediate decision, and because its final issue would be the result of the most diligent and minute deliberation. In the observations he had to make, it was not his intention to follow the noble lord in the view which he took of the subject before the House. The noble lord seemed to think the proposed reduction, as it was termed, to be a voluntary offer of economy on the part of the government. He (Mr. Tierney), on the contrary, viewed it as a necessary consequence of circumstances which had lately occurred. He took it in this way—By the death of her majesty a great part of the Windsor establishment was done away with, and the House were called upon to see at what expense the subsequent arrangements in that department could be made, for the money so spared to the country was the property of the public, and it was the
[318ll317lll[316lll315llllll[314maître d'hotel.313llllllll[312ll311[310l309Mr. Tierney
[322lde novol321custosejusdem generis[320‡319à fortiori expressed his confidence, that the admissions of the right hon. gentleman, if acted upon frankly, and in the spirit in which they professed to be made (and he did not doubt that they would be so), would bring him and his noble friend much nearer in their opinions and views of the subject, than the right hon. gentleman at present perhaps supposed. His noble friend had specifically stated, that the various estimates would be laid before the select committee. That information therefore, the absence of which had been regretted by the right hon. gentleman would be supplied. The House were not called upon to vote for the appointment of the committee with any pledge to approve of those estimates. The committee would have the opportunity of examining them in detail. The right hon. gentleman had, however, urged two or three objections to the proposition of his noble friend, to which he (Mr. Canning) felt himself competent to give an answer, without touching on any of those parts of the question which would be better reserved for the investigation of the committee. He should apply himself first, to that part of the speech of the right hon. gentleman which came last in order; namely, his remarks on the continuation for life of the salaries of her late majesty's household. He could assure the right hon. gentleman, that the present proposition was copied exactly from two distinct precedents. In the case of the demise of queen Caroline, and in that of the princess dowager of Wales (which though not strictly a case of a demise of a queen was [322lde novol321custosejusdem generis[320‡319à fortioriMr. Canning
l, in explanation, said, he well knew the provisions of the act of 1812; and in adding that he was ready to repeal it, he expected to have the noble lord for his seconder. The noble lord himself was about to repeal it to a certain extent. All that he meant by the observation of the funds in question being in possession of the House was, that it was now before them practically to apply them as justice or necessity should require. He was certainly disposed to act liberally towards the duke of York, and only wished to see some general scale upon which the allowance in question might be regulated. If 10,000lMr. Tierney
 observed, that he had misunderstood the right hon. gentleman, who, he thought, had meant to contend, that the privy purse ceased to be the king's private property with the cessation of the exercise of his political capacity. The last act of parliament had, however, recognised the existence of this private property, when the exercise of the political capacity had actually ceased.Mr. Canning
[290 said, he held in his hand a petition from a person called Dennis Sullivan, who stated that he had received a severe wound in his majesty's service, in consequence of which he had been rendered incapable of labouring for his support. He thought it would appear to every member who took the trouble of inquiring into the circumstances of the case, that there could not be a more distressing situation than that in which this unfortunate individual was placed. He had been disabled in the service of his king and
[290Mr. Bennet
 said, that if he was aware that the state of the general administration of justice was to have been discussed, he should have made some observations on the subject, but he thought it hardly necessary, on the present occasion, as the only question was, as to the northern counties, which were in a worse state than the rest of the kingdom.Mr. M. A. Taylor
[294 said, it would not be necessary for him to detain the house more than a single moment. The subject had been several times before the house; it had been fully discussed last session; and there was now, he believed, no gentleman, who would object to the northern counties being placed on the same footing with the other counties, as to the administration of justice. He was fortunate that the subject had been long under discussion; he was fortunate, too, that it had received the concurrence of his majesty's ministers who were in progress with arrangements for carrying the measure into execution. After the report of the committee of the 28th of March should have been read, he would more, "That an humble Address
[294Mr. M. A. Taylor
[296 observed, that a more equal division of the year between the assizes was highly desirable, as the assizes
[296Mr. N. Calvert
295 said, that he could not refrain from expressing his surprise, that so long after the subject had been discussed in that house and out of that house, after men connected with the law, and unconnected with it, had given a decided opinion, it should be announced to that house, that the subject was now under the consideration of ministers. Last session the subject had been fully discussed in that house, four northern grand juries had expressed their strong conviction on the subject; surely the public had a right to expect that ministers would, in consequence, have had something ready before this. He was very happy to give his support to the motion of his hon. friend, and he hoped that it would be carried into effect, without injuring the general administration of justice, by multiplying the number of judges, which he should consider a great evil. [Hear!] The increase of the number of puisne judges in Westminster-hall would promote neither the independence of the bar, nor the service of the public. During the whole of last term the two most important courts in Westminster-hall had each a judge's place vacant. It had been known long before term commenced, that neither of the chief justices could attend, yet no steps had been taken to supply the vacancy, so
295Mr. Denman
293 stated, that before proceeding further in this business, he wished to call the attention of the house to the last case of the same description which had come before the house. The hon. member had been kind enough to communicate to him his intention on his entering the house. The house were aware how short the interval was which he had had for inquiry; but he had found a case in point, and that he should state to the
293The Speaker
 stated, that the proceedings related to a succeeding election, and not to the past.The Speaker
 stated, that in all matters of this kind, the Admiralty were obliged to follow the regulations of an order in council. It was indispensably necessary to have a smart ticket, in order to be entitled to any pension, and as the petitioner had not such a ticket, under the existing regulations, he was not en-titled to a pension.Sir George Cockburn
ll[292quid pro quo.llCustos Rotutorum291 rose and said, it was his painful duty to present a petition for which he was sure the house would have deep regret, any occasion should appear to have been offered, since the allegations contained in it, if proved, would subject not only a gentleman in a distinguished station at the Irish bar, but also a member of that house, to its severest animadversion for a breach of privilege, affecting its honour and dignity, subversive of the freedom of elective franchise, and those securities which should guard the sanctuaries of justice, as well as of the constitution. He lamented the hon. member was not in England; but as he had received intimation of the petitioner's intention, and the petitioner's private interests would be much injured by an indefinite delay, he trusted the house would not think the petition had been precipitately brought for-
ll[292quid pro quo.llCustos Rotutorum291Sir Robert Wilson
 then moved, "That the hon. Wyndham Quin do attend this house in his place upon this day seven-night;" which was agreed to.Sir Robert Wilson
 hoped, as this was the last day for receiving election petitions, that this would not be considered a bar to their entertaining this case hereafter.Sir John Newport
 presented a petition from Richard Cotton Mould, praying that further time should be afforded him for entering into his recognizance. The petition having been read,Mr. Holmes
[328 observed, that a case similar to this had not before arisen. Indeed it was not possible, because the act of parliament out of which it grew, took its date subsequent to the last general election. That act described the time when notice of the party being ready to produce sureties, ought to be given; and the present petition prayed for further time to effect that object. By the law, as it at present stood, the House could enlarge the time for entering into recognizances, but not for a longer period than thirty days from the time of presenting the original petition. That enlargement could only be granted, on the statement contained in the petition, praying for further time, being verified on oath: the manner in which it was to be verified did not appear. The only way, it seemed to him, would be, to call the petitioner to the bar, and swear him to the truth of his petition. It could not, therefore, be moved, that the petition should lie on the table, as that would dispose of it for the any, and such a delay would prevent the
[328The Speaker
 said, that by the act which passed a few years ago, it was directed that thirty days notice should be given of the intention of petitioning, in order that inquiry might be made into the character of the sureties; that the person petitioned against might be able to recover his expenses, If the petition were declared frivolous and vexatious. By the same act, under particular circumstances, a longer time was allowed to the petitioner to find sureties, if those originally proposed were objected to. The period pointed out for the reconsideration of sureties was eight days, "at the least," after the objection. He thought, according to the strict technical construction of the words, that "eight days at the least," meant eight days exclusive of the day on which notice was given. But, as the House always acted with liberality towards petitioners, and as, in this instance, it was very probable that the petitioner supposed the words "eight days at the least" to include the day of giving notice as well as that of entering into the recognizance, perhaps they would accede to the prayer of the petition, although it was not strictly in time.Mr. Wynn
 said, the hon. baronet would feel that it was impossible for him to give an explicit answer to his question, since propositions might be moved in the committee, of which, up to the time of their being submitted, he could know nothing. He conceived that the country banks, as connected with the general question of the paper currency, formed a very proper subject for the consideration of the committee, when the great point to be decided was, whether a restriction should be placed on the issue of paper. He begged, however to state, that, at present, he did not contemplate any proposition on the subject of country banks.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he could not presume to state what proceedings might be adopted while the committee was sitting; but at present he knew of no such intention.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 trusted, when it was considered that he was connected both by relationship and friendship with the family implicated in the allegations contained in the petition, the house would excuse him for saying a few words on the subject. No charges had, indeed, been made directly against that family, but still charges were indirectly made against them. He would venture to say, that there never was a set of allegations of this kind which were more likely to be groundless. He could not speak as to details, as he had never heard the subject mentioned before. The hon. and learned gentleman would, in his opinion, have exercised a sound discretion, had he waited till the arrival of the hon. member for Dumfriesshire, who was nearly related to the family in question, and acquainted with its concerns. The speech of the hon. and learned gentleman would then have gone to the world accompanied by same explanation. But he wished to observe that this was neither more nor less than a question of misappropriation of property. It therefore properly belonged to a court of law, and the petitioners might have gone with it to the court of session.Lord Binning
 Said, that the commission alluded to was not at all connected with his department. He could, however, state for the satisfaction of his hon. friend, that some progress had been made by the commissioners, but not sufficient to encourage a hope that they would be able to present a report during the present session.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
[334 said, that it was of great importance to have this bill passed as soon as possible, but
[334The Chancellor of the Exchequer
primâ facie said, that the proceeding was now confined to the calling in the petitioner's agent, to confirm his statement on oath. They might afterwards consider whether on that statement so verified, the House was justified in granting the petitioner the indulgence he prayed. There was no primâ facieMr. Wynn
 observed, that the question was not whether the surety should be admitted, but whether the House should grant time to the petitioner to give notice for another surety. There appeared to be a difficulty in admitting without examination, the statement of a petitioner; for though he might state the truth, he might not state the whole truth, and might keep out of sight circumstances which had justified the examiners in rejecting the surety.Mr. S. Bourne
335 objected to the motion, because, if the whole of the allegations were proved, it was to be doubted whether House would grant the petitioner relief. He was bound, in the first instance, to have offered a sufficient surety, or to
335Mr. C. Harvey
333 said, there was a partial pressure, at the present moment, that rendered some remedy necessary. The late Mr. Whitbread had introduced a bill, whereby magistrates were required to have proper weights and measures in their different districts, by a reference to which persons having false weights and measures
333Mr. H. Sumner
 wished to know what had been done by the commission appointed to take into consideration the present state of Weights and Measures, and whether they were likely to make a report during1 the present session.Mr. H. Sumner
 said the hon. member had partly answered for hint the charge of the noble lord. He had not only communicated the petition to that hon. gentleman, but he had also communicated: it to the right hon. gentleman who was member for Edinburgh. That right hon. gentleman, after reading the petition, had returned it to him with an answer, that he was entirely unacquainted with the circumstances stated in it. He thought he had done quite enough to save him even from the possibility of being charged with any thing like unfairness.Mr. Brougham
331llllllll[330 said, he held in his hands a petition from the minister, elders and inhabitants, of the parish of Moffat, in Scotland. He ought first to mention that the minister and elders of a parish composed what in this country was called a vestry. They formed also an ecclesiastical authority. These inhabitants, to the number of 300, had taken the precaution to obviate the effect of an objection which was sometimes made to similar petitions, that persons of tender age had been called on to sign them, to add after each signature the age of the person signing. They composed a great majority of the inhabitants of the parish arrived at the age of maturity. The petitioners stated, that in 1639 a re-
331llllllll[330Mr. Brougham
 observed, that the examiners had recommended the petitioner to apply to the House, which was a presumption that they thought him entitled to an extension of his time.Mr. Lambton
 presented a Petition from sir Henry Clement Thompson, who had presented a petition against the return for the borough of Barnstaple. He stated that having, according to law, given eight days notice of his sureties, he had named a Mr. Larkins, of Essex-street, Strand, as one of them. His other surely was accepted, but Mr. Larkins was rejected because he had changed his residence from Essex-street to Northumberland street, and he was also objected to because he had been a bankrupt two years ago. The petitioner was consequently recommended by the examiners to apply to the House by petition. He stated, that he was unacquainted, as was his agent, with his surety's change of abode, and he prayed for further time to give notice of another surety.Mr. Lambton
 said, that no man could feel more than himself the value of the labours of the hon. and learned gentleman, with respect to the education of the poor. As far, however, as regarded the money bequeathed' for the benefit of the people of Moffat, he did know from inquiry, that up to the present period the money had been constantly paid for a schoolmaster. With respect to the allegation regarding the burseries, he could only say, that young men had been regularly sent to the university of Edinburgh agreeably to the bequest. The successors of the marquis of Annandale were persons who had always been conspicuous for every thing honourable, and particularly for their charities for objects of this nature, and he was certain it would turn out on inquiry, that all the objects of the bequest had been most religiously attended to.Mr. W. Douglas
, in explanation, observed, that two or three days ago the hon. and learned gentlemen had mentioned to him that he had received such a petition, and had asked him if he could obtain any information respecting it before he presented it to the house. In consequence he had applied to persons from Moffat in London, who told him all that they knew respecting it. They told him that the petition was signed by the clergy man, and most of the inhabitants of the parish. They told him that the salaries and allowances had been regularly paid, and that the money was left entirely at the disposal and control of the Annandale family. He could only say, that he was sure, in exercising that discretion, the family in question would always act in an honourable and upright manner.Mr. W. Douglas
imperium in imperio concurred in the principle which his hon. friend had laid down. It was one which ought always to be observed, wherever it possibly could. Every person must recollect what passed on a former night, when objections were made to what was properly denominated, this imperium in imperioMr. Lamb
 hoped the chancellor of the exchequer would not press the third reading of this bill to-morrow. There was a part of the bill in which he conceived there was something objectionable. He did not object to giving the custody of his majesty's person to the duke of York, as he conceived his majesty could not be in better hands; but he objected to vesting in the hands of the duke of York, certain patronage and power, which ought not to be in the hands of a person who was the successor to the crown. On this subject, perhaps, some important light might be thrown, by the committee lately appointed, and he hoped, therefore, that they would wait for the report of that committee before the bill was read a third time, in order that they might know in what way that patronage could be best disposed of. If, however, it was the sense of the House that the third reading should take place now, he would not press his objection.Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, that if it was a matter of any necessity, he did not wish to throw any impediment in the way of the third reading.Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, he was then to understand, that there was no intention of submitting to the committee a resolution similar to that which the right hon. gentleman had in contemplation last year.Sir M. W. Ridley
329, seeing the chancellor of the exchequer in his place, was anxious to know whether the right hon. gentleman had submitted any proposition to the committee now investigating the affairs of the Bank, or whether he had it in contemplation to offer any proposition to their notice, on the subject of country banks. On a former evening, the right hon. gentleman had said, when a question respecting country banks was asked, that it was a subject, of such importance, as rendered it fit to be referred to that committee; But that committee was, as he understood, to
329Sir M. W. Ridley
[350 of Scotland said, that the bill which the noble lord had described as having been withdrawn in an unaccountable manner, had been withdrawn because those interested in it had petitioned that the bill might not pass till
[350The Lord Advocate
*351 said, it would be very invidious to argue on individual members. He was perfectly convinced, that the talents of the hon. and learned gentleman whose name had been mentioned, were every way suited to the examination of the subject to which the attention of the committee was called. It was not on account of that hon. and learned gentleman's want of capability, that he felt it necessary to oppose the motion, but because the grounds on which
*351Lord Castlereagh
355 observed, that with respect to the system of ballot, he differed from the worthy alderman, as well as from other members; for it appeared to him quite indifferent whether a committee were appointed by ballot or by nomination, because the opinion of the majority must have the same influence in either case, with this consideration, however, in favour of the ballot, that gentlemen had an opportunity, through that system, of expressing their real sentiment, without of- fending against prejudice or partiality. He would most decidedly object to the system by ballot, if, as some gentlemen summed to suppose, it served to fetter the
355Mr. Wynn
[356 said, that as his observations on a former evening had been alluded to in his absence, which allusion, by-the-by, he could not help thinking rather inconsistent with the usual courtesy of the House, he felt it necessary to say a word or two upon the motion. What he had stated upon the subject of the system of ballot, in comparison with the proposal of nomination, was this, that the former afforded gentlemen a full opportunity of expressing their opinions, without stating their grounds of objection or preference towards any individual. It was upon this ground, distinctly, that he preferred the system of ballot. Now with respect to the motion before the House, he would abstain from saying any thing about the
[356Mr. Canning
 rose to say a few words, rendered, in his mind, necessary from the speech of the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down. The precedents he had alluded to before were precedents exactly in point, not precedents that fell under the description of those relied oh by the right hon. member. He would mention the case of lord Finch and the chancellor of the exchequer, who, in 1715, were added to a committee. In 1773 the names of Mr. Jenkinson (the late lord Liverpool), Mr. Langley, and Mr. Hopkinson, were added to a committee of that House. In 1781 the name of lord Graham was added to a committee of that House. He would only say, that these gentlemen were all members of the House at the time the committees had been originally appointed, and this, he trusted, would be a sufficient answer to the ground of objection relied on by the right hon. gentleman.Mr. Wynn
[358, of Galway, said, he had heard gentlemen on the opposition side of the House dwell very largely on the talents and the information of the hon. and learned member; but those qualities, in his mind, were not all that was necessary; nor would they induce him to accede to the present motion. He could conceive a gentleman at the bar, learned as a lawyer, but whom his majesty would not be advised to appoint to any judicial situation. He could conceive a case where a man might be very highly skilled in divinity, yet the ministers of his majesty would not be advised to make him a bishop. Government and the House had other considerations in view besides the appointment of the hon. and learned member; and though he would not deny him the praise, on the score of information and of talents, he would still vote against him. Precedents had been mentioned: he considered the matter should rather be decided by the discretion of the House; he felt that he had a right to use his discretion, and he would vote against the motion. Much had been said about the management of government in making out lists, but he verily believed that if government had been ever so anxious, it would have been out of their power to procure the nomination of the hon. and
[358Mr. Martin
 spoke in favour of the motion. He said, that in 1797, he had voted for the appointment of Mr. Fox to a similar committee, although at the time opposed to that great man's political opinions; and, in the present case, he would, were he on the other side of the House, feel the propriety of voting for the appointment of the hon. and learned gentleman referred to in the motion, from a conviction of that hon. and learned gentleman's peculiar aptitude for the situation, distinguished as he was for the highest abilities and attainments.Lord Morpeth
 expressed his entire concurrence in all that had been said with regard to the great ability of the hon. and learned gentleman alluded to. Still he must say, that the question referred to this committee being not merely theoretical, but practical, he could not acquiesce in the proposition, that it was desirable to add the hon. and learned gentleman to that committee, as he did not conceive that gentleman to have had any practical experience. In his opinion, indeed, there were already too many theoretical, and too few practical men upon the committee.Mr. Marryat
353 said, that fully agreeing in all that had been said by the gentlemen opposite him in favour of Mr. Brougham, he could not help saying that it was their fault Mr. Brougham was not a member of that committee. Formerly it had been the practice in ballots to draw up not one but two lists, one from the ministerial the other from the opposition side; on the present occasion about a hundred members balloted, but he observed that not one gentleman came from the opposition side to put in a list. If they had done their duty, if but half the minority which they had mustered had put in lists containing the name of Mr. Brougham, there would have been a very good chance that that gentleman would have formed one of the committee; for it was known that many members had al-
353Mr. Stuart Worthy
[368367llllll[366llllllll365lllllllll[364llllllll363lllllllllllllll[362llllllll361 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for the appointment of a Select Committee to inquire into the Income and Expenditure of the country. In moving for the appointment of a committee of finance, though it was that which had so repeatedly been done within the last few years, he was far from considering what he was about to submit to the House as a matter of course. He felt that he owed to them some explanation of the reasons why he recommended it in the present instance, and to afford a view of the general outline of the plan which ministers intended to submit, and to pursue in the course of the session. They would undoubtedly expose themselves to a great deal of just reproach, if the only measure of economy they had in contemplation was that which had been occasioned by the change in the Windsor establishment. The House would, of course, be anxious to have the general estimates laid before it; and as they were embraced in a very narrow compass, it would not be necessary for him to claim their attention for any considerable length: his principal object would be to touch upon those points, the details of which would subsequently come under the notice of the committee. He wished, in the first instance, to protest against the appointment of the finance committee being considered a matter of course in each succeeding session; on the contrary, he held such annual nomination to be an abuse of one of the most important powers of the House, which ought only to be exercised upon particular and special occasions. When, two years ago, he had adopted the same course he was now pursuing, he had stated that the then condition of the country required it; and he added, what the result proved, that the country might be satisfied that there was a gradual improvement in the financial circumstances of the country, and that, ere long, a growing surplus of revenue as compared with the expenditure would be discovered. At that time, his hon. friend the member for Bramber, had expressed some alarm, because he (lord Castlereagh) had admitted, that be was not sanguine enough to hope, that, in the course of that session, the committee would be able to establish so flattering a result, by accomplishing all the objects
[368367llllll[366llllllll365lllllllll[364llllllll363lllllllllllllll[362llllllll361Lord Castlereagh
 explained, that when he had said, that both ends of the income and expenditure met, he did not mean to cover the sinking fund; he merely alluded to the actual receipt and direct expenditure of the current year, without touching on the sinking fund. If any delusion were practised, it was by the right hon. gentleman who would endeavour to make the country suppose the existence of a state of things which would enable ministers to redeem the public debt at the rate of fourteen millions annually.Lord Castlereagh
[380379l[378 began by defending the finance committee from the attacks of the right hon. gentleman. He conceived the country had been very much indebted to the labours of that committee. Many sinecures had been abolished, and muck reduction had taken place in the military and naval expenditure of the country in consequence of their recommendations. Without detracting from the merits of the members of his majesty's government, who adopted, on the recommendation of the committee, such measures as they considered practicable, and of real benefit to the public:—without detracting from them, still it was proper to bear in mind, that the hands of the official government were very much strengthened in many of these measures
[380379l[378The Chancellor of the Exchequer
385 said, he did not rise to go into the general consideration of a subject so important as that which had occupied the attention of the House. Had he been disposed at the commencement of the debate to adopt that course, he should have been precluded from adhering to it by the incomparable speech of his right hon. friend. It appeared, however, to him, that the chancellor of the exchequer had arrived at a somewhat singular conclusion, with respect to the sentiments expressed in that speech. The right hon. gentleman had inferred that his right hon. friend was in favour of a vigorous system of taxation. He would have judged more correctly in arguing that he was in favour of a vigorous system of reduction. Was the right hon. gentleman willing to co-operate in the prosecution of that system? He was desirous of protesting, for one, on this occasion, against the presumption that by assenting to the formation of the proposed committee, he was precluding himself from the right of bringing forward any specific measure of retrenchment which he might think important to the public interest. It was not his wish to disparage the former Committee, or to underrate the value of their labours. It could not be denied, that they had rendered considerable service to the country; but, at the same time, it could not be concealed, that the good which was done might have been much greater. Committees of this description had also this evil connected with them—that they operated as a screen to the administration, and divided that responsibility which ought to rest exclusively on the servants of the crown. He was utterly at a loss to conceive, why the inquiries of the former committee had not been directed to the mode of collecting the revenue. An hon. member (Mr. Maberly) who had, in a late speech, discovered great intelli-
385Mr. Macdonald
 said, it gave him great satisfaction to hear that the learned lord intended shortly to introduce a bill; and he was also gratified to learn that the voice of the people, expressed by petition, was so much attended to as to cause the withdrawal of the former bill.Lord A. Hamilton
, in rising to present a petition, said, that as this was the first petition on this subject in the present parliament, he should claim the indulgence of the House for a few words. It was a petition complaining of the self-elected magistrates of the burghs of Scotland, an evil respecting which there had been numerous applications to the last parliament;—and he did not doubt but that this petition would be, in the present session, followed by numerous applications. The petitioners detailed the evils of this system; they pointed to the bankruptcy of several burghs, especially of Aberdeen; and urged the impossibility of their keeping out dishonest magistrates, or of controlling them when in office. They referred to the manner in which members were elected to that House, not as the immediate evil they complained of, but as one growing out of it. He hoped the House would really take into consideration the evil stated by the petitioners with a view to do justice. He should take that opportunity, as he saw the learned lord immediately connected with the legal affairs of Scotland for the first time in his place, of putting a question to him. In the last session the learned lord had introduced a bill to remedy a part of the evil complained of by the petitioners, which had been, somewhat unaccountably, withdrawn. He wished to know, whether the learned lord intended to revive that bill, or to introduce any other.—The petition, which was from the burgh of Kirkcudbright was then brought up.Lord A. Hamilton
 said, that an hon. gentleman had thought fit to say, that a lawyer without principle, and a divine without piety, were not fit to be appointed on a committee of the House. As to the hon. and learned gentleman, he was a lawyer, not only of great learning and ability, but in other respects pre-eminently qualified to investigate the subject for which the committee had beer appointed. It had been said, that gentlemen of the opposition had not done their duty; if the charge were true, surely they ought now to remedy the defect as soon as possible. It struck every man as extraordinary, that a gentleman pre-eminent for talents and industry, and singularly skilled in political economy, should not have been among the first on such a committee.Mr. D. W. Harvey
383[382381 said, he should not now have
383[382381 Mr. Ellice
[384║ stated, that he was one of those who, at a time when many were desponding, had expressed a strong opinion that the distresses of the country were of a temporary nature. His view had been confirmed by the turn which things had afterwards taken. He could not help, however, thinking that ministers relied too much on our exports and imports. The fact was, it was notorious that the commercial system of this country had very much altered. Instead of the cautious conduct for which our traders used to be distinguished, there was now a strong tendency to bold and adventurous speculation. This spirit was visible in all our dealings, from the most extensive to the more humble class of traders. How far this had been increased by our paper circulation, he could not pretend to say. Whatever might be the state of our exports and imports, it was Certain that there was now very great distress in the country. He knew that very many of the traders of this country were of opinion that it was impossible to check the paper circulation, without
[384║Mr. Protheroe
 did not believe that the noble lord meant any such thing. What he contended was, that by leaving all mention of the sinking fund out of this statement, the noble lord had afforded an opportunity for the dissemination of error on the subject.Mr. Tierney
377lll[376ll375l[374llllllllllll373[372lllll371lllll[370369 regretted, that as the noble lord had gone into such detail, he had not given previous notice of his intention to do so, for no man who had heard the notice of motion for the revival of a finance committee, such as had existed in the last parliament, could have supposed at the time that such a motion would be accompanied with the opening of the budget for the year. He, as well as the House, were taken by surprise in this instance. He was not, therefore, prepared to follow the noble lord into a minute examination of all the items, but would give to the House such observations as occurred to him on hearing them. He was rather surprised to hear from the noble lord an insinuation that the present might be the last occasion when the exertions of the committee would be required—he meant such a finance committee as seemed to have been first intended, and; was really necessary; but if the committee which was then about to be appointed was to be-only of such a description as the last—if
377lll[376ll375l[374llllllllllll373[372lllll371lllll[370369Mr. Tierney
[352** observed, that the noble lord had said that it would be invidious to state any objection to the nomination of Mr. Brougham. It was, however, something more than invidious, it was extremely difficult. Without saying any thing in disparagement of other gentlemen, he would venture to assert, that no man would deny his hon. and learned friend's qualifications of the researches which the committee would be called on to make. There was not any gentleman in the House there was not any man in the House or in the kingdom, more eminently qualified to assist in the elucidation of any question connected with political economy. The defence which the noble lord had been driven upon was, to say, that when the committee was completed by ballot it should not be varied, and he had adduced as a precedent that when a gentleman was nominated who was 400 miles off, his name was not permitted to be withdrawn
[352**Mr. Tierney
 rose, pursuant to notice, to move that the name of Mr. Brougham be added to the committee appointed to investigate the affairs of the Bank. The extraordinary fitness of his hon. and learned friend for such a committee were not, he believed, disputed by any individual in that House. It was not, therefore, necessary for him to enter into a detail of those abilities which eminently qualified him for a place on that committee. He had been asked by several gentlemen, whether he had any precedent for this proceeding? To this he answered, that he had found a precedent exactly in point. In the year 1781, the marquis of Graham was added to a committee, although it was originally decided that it should only consist of twenty-one members. This took place on the 11th of May, and, in the record of the transaction on the Journals of the House, allusion was made to other precedents. He was not, therefore, making an unprecedented motion. Having stated this to the House, he would not enter into any-invidious remarks, on those gentlemen whose names had been ballotted for, but would content himself with moving, "That Mr. Brougham be added to the said committee."Mr. Calcraft
 said, that the hon. member for Yorkshire had taken upon him to lecture that side of the House; in the last parliament that hon. member was in the habit of giving good advice to the ministers. He for one, should always be glad to listen to the hon. gentleman's admonitions; but in the present instance he had misstated the facts and mistaken the inferences to be drawn from them. The number of the members who balloted was 200, and of these 175 had put in the treasury lists unaltered. But this was not all, for it was well known that there was a corps de reserve available for the purposes of the minister. It had been well observed by the right hon. the member for Liverpool, that it was peculiarly desirable to have this committee composed of all the talents in the House most competent to judge of the important subject referred to it, and as the talents of his hon. and learned friend, to whom the motion referred, were quite unquestionable, he lamented the absence of that right hon. gentleman upon this occasion, because, if present, he must calculate in consistency upon that right hon. gentleman's support of the motion.Mr. Calcraft
357 said, he was particularly desirous that the arguments of the hon. member for Yorkshire should not pass
357Mr. Barham
 stated, that there was a considerable depression in the country, and that interest, which was last year at so low a rate, was now at 8 or 10 per cent. Any sudden reduction of the circulation must, therefore, operate in a very ruinous way on the manufactures and agriculture of the country. With regard to the issue of exchequer bills, he differed from an hon. gentleman who had spoken last but two. There was always wanted a large sum in this country, which could be commanded at any time—a casual capital. By raising money by issuing exchequer bills to meet this demand, government had saved to the country a large sum in interest every year. The only measure at present to look to was, to see that the Bank did not draw in its issues, but continued to give to manufacturers and agriculturists a regular supply.Mr. Hart Davis
[354 said, that if the object of gentlemen were a full and fair inquiry, he could not see why they should oppose the present motion. He did not see why they should object to the name of Mr. Brougham, a gentleman possessing talents of the highest order, and knowledge of great extent. Whatever gentlemen might say in that House, by whatever pretext they might labour to get rid of such a man, the country at large would say, that this committee of inquiry was but a committee to suppress real inquiry. He said, he would ever oppose the appointment of a committee by ballot, because he considered it an improper mode of selecting a committee; it had indeed been made a joke of; it had afforded infinite amusement to the other side of the House, but he considered it a grave and important matter, and gentlemen who treated it with levity, who called it a joke, showed very little respect for public opinion. He could not think that the House would perform its duty, even if precedent were against the present motion, if they excluded Mr. Brougham
[354Mr. Alderman Waithman
349 said, he had to make a report to the House respecting certain recognizances to be entered into by those presenting petitions, complaining of the returns in Irish elections. Before he spoke of the particular cases to which he alluded, he thought it might be for the convenience of the House that he should state precisely the situation in which these petitioners stood. By an act of the 28th of the king it was provided, that the petitioners should enter into certain recognizances within fourteen days, and failing to do so, it was imperative on the Speaker to report that these had not been entered into, and thereupon the petition being taken into consideration, any order for referring it to an election committee was to be discharged. By an act of the 48th of the king it was provided, that if the petitioners were in Ireland, though no extension of the time formerly allowed for presenting petitions was granted in England, a further time should be allowed forgiving the Speaker notice of the recognizances having been entered into, and fourteen days were allowed for that purpose, making altogether twenty-eight days from the opening of the first session of parliament for entering into the recognizances, and giving notice of the same. A subsequent act of parliament, passed in the 53rd of the king, called on the petitioner to enter into heavy recognizances for counsel's fees, and other expenses, and for entering into these the same time was allowed as in the act of the 28th of the king, but by some oversight no time had been allowed over the fourteen days to petitioners in Ireland to give notice of these recognizances having been duly entered into. The provision made in the act of the 48th of the king, must, by some accident, have been overlooked when that bill was passed, or the same arrangement would have been made with respect to these recognizances that had been thought necessary for the others. If he had succeeded in explaining the situation in which these petitioners
349The Speaker
 said, he disapproved altogether of the act respecting grand juries.Sir J. Stewart
393[392391[390 said, he would for the present avoid going into any topics that did not immediately arise out of the petition just presented to the House. Whatever might have been the operation of the act, the House and the country would, he had no doubt, at least, do justice to the motives of those by whom it was introduced, to their anxiety for the public interests, and their desire to put down abuses which were disgraceful to the laws and injurious to the morals and the welfare of the Irish people. He, for one, had no other motive than to promote the public good; and he would not tamely or silently submit to any imputations which gentlemen might think fit to cast upon the bill. As to what had fallen from the hon. gentleman who presented the petition, he had nothing to complain of, nor would he now deny but that local causes might have rendered it difficult,
393[392391[390Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald
 said, that as far as he could lend his aid, he would willingly assist in any amendments that might be found necessary in the law, provided the principle of the law itself was not attempted to be destroyed. As to the petitioners, nothing was further from his intention than to impute any hostility to them. As to the right hon. baronet, he did not mean to apply any observation to him. He was the gentleman who, in that House, had seconded the measure. He gave it his support: every part of it was submitted to his consideration, for the purpose of receiving his sanction.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
[396l.,l.l.395 said, he observed with regret the inattention and listlessness with which the House were looking upon a question so important to the interest and prosperity of Ireland. For his own part, he conceived that the affairs of Ireland, relatively situated as Ireland was towards us, and with the comparative minority of members which she sent to the British parliament, deserved to engage the serious consideration of the House whenever
[396l.,l.l.395Mr. Peel
[410409 said, he did not suppose that the proposition of his hon. friend was intended to lead to a general discussion of the system of Poor laws. If the subject was to be discussed in that House, it would be more advantageous to debate it, when the bill which his hon. friend meant to submit to their consideration, was introduced. That bill would contain seven or eight of the most important propositions connected with the subject, and, in considering it, they would be able to point out those parts of the improved sytem, in the propriety of which they agreed, and those also which they considered faulty. The hon. gentleman who spoke last had argued the question rather as a matter of financial arrangement, than as a subject connected with the Poor laws. If the hon. gentleman had formed any measure in his own mind; if he had discovered any happy expedient, by which the burthen could be removed from that part of the community which they most wished to relieve, and thrown on another portion, by whom it would not be felt; then he could assure the hon. gentleman, that he had found out a plan, which had not presented itself to the chancellor of the exchequer, or to any of his majesty's ministers. Before the hon. gentleman asked ministers to do that, which, he stated, they alone could effect,
[410409Lord Castlereagh
 thought that the statement of the hon. member did not contradict any thing that he had said. He had compared the present state of the country, as far as it was affected by the poor laws, with its state two years ago; but he admitted that, in the county of Sussex, the pressure of the poor-rates was at present very severe.Lord Castlereagh
 thought that the question was reduced to a very small and narrow compass, and that the House had only to determine whether they should vote the resumption of the committee. He felt that he had a public duty to discharge, and he thought he could not discharge that duty more conscientiously than by voting against the resumption of the committee. There was no individual, however obscure, but knew that the poor in this country were in a most abject state, and that it was necessary to amend the laws on the subject. If the committee had been appointed to amend the laws, he should vote for it; but as the laws were admitted to be the best that could be framed, that could not be the object of its appointment. In reply to what an hon. gentleman had stated respecting the use of potatoes, he should only say, that he had a little Irish blood in his veins, and did not think there was any evil to be apprehended from an increase of population. He thought that adequate employment might be found in the country for the whole labouring class of the community. The state of the poor, he thought, required some measure emanating from the executive government, and he could not conceive a greater object for the attention of government. He thought that if any measure were proposed by the administration of the country, it would be hailed as a happy omen by the whole nation, and would not be regarded with apprehension and jealousy, as was apprehended by the noble lord.Mr. Long Wellesley
[414 was happy to assure the worthy alderman, that the garden ground to the cottages had not escaped the notice of the committee. In the report of the committee it was strongly recommended, that all cottages should be furnished with gardens at a cheap rate—a recommendation which he hoped would be attended to. In the course of the discussion, he had heard several remarks which were worthy of the consideration of the committee, but not a reason had been given for not renewing it. The county which he had the honour to represent, felt peculiarly alive with regard to the law of settlement introduced in the last session, by which a residence of three years had become necessary previous to the being entitled to obtain relief. His constituents were certainly alarmed at any meditated change from the present system; and in consequence of the representations which had, from all quarters,
[414Colonel Wood
 apprehended that appeal in cases of treason, was totally abolished.The Attorney General
417[416 rose to submit the motion of which he had some days since given notice to that House. The law as it then stood with regard to the Wager of Battle had, as he believed, never before been regularly brought under the consideration of parliament. Indeed, the only consideration which he ever knew to have been bestowed upon the subject, had taken place only when particular circumstances had excited the passions and prejudices of men, as had been particularly exemplified in the last appeal of battle which had been made during the course of the past year. The subject, however, had never undergone a calm and deliberate investigation, and in all human probability would have still remained upon the statute book, had not those circumstances, which would be fresh in the recollection of the House, induced him to direct his immediate attention to the question. Here the hon. and learned gentleman entered into a detailed and luminous history of the origin, progress, and changes that had occurred in the Wager of Battle, and observed, that by the existence of such a law, every individual would have it in his power not only to be the avenger of his wrongs, but the arbiter, and often the unmerciful arbiter, of the life and happiness of others. The Wager of Battle as it then existed was both cruel and absurd, and contrary to every principle of justice. The appeal in cases of murder would be seen to be a most violent outrage upon every law of justice. And for the simplest, yet most satisfactory, of all reasons—namely, that when a party had been once tried and acquitted, he never should undergo the ordeal of a second trial for the same offence. But by the law of Wager of Battle, it could be demanded
417[416The Attorney General
389 presented a petition from the county of Londonderry, praying for the revision of the act passed in the last session, respecting Grand Jury Presentments in Ireland. In doing this, he begged to be understood by his right hon. friend, that the petitioners in no part complained of the principles of the measure which he had introduced. He allowed that the former system of grand jury presentments in Ireland was indefensible; and that the grossest abuses prevailed in the application of the money, to raise which, the tenantry were pressed to the ground by taxes, under the name
389Mr. Dawson
 said, that the old system of grand jury presentments, which had been abolished, had been productive of much benefit to Ireland, and only required time to bring it to perfection; but the present system rendered the carrying on of public works impossible. When the judges had recommended at the assizes the employment of the poor on public works, it had not been found possible to follow their advice, in consequence of the difficulties thrown in the way of presentments.General Hart
[408407l.l.,l.s.[406d.s.s.405s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.[404l.l.l.403l.in terrorem said, the hon. gentleman who had just sat down was entitled not only to the individual thanks of every member of that House, but to the approbation of the country at large, for the ability and perseverance with which he applied himself to this subject. It was, therefore, with some pain that he rose to oppose the motion for a committee. For, though he thought that, in the first instance, the appointment of a committee was the best course that could be resorted to, in order to bring sufficient evidence before the House, yet, as there now appeared to be a complete detail on this most important and alarming subject, he conceived they ought at once to meet the question fairly. Nothing could be done in the committee to remedy the evils complained of; they could only be removed by a great and comprehensive view of the subject, taken by those whose situation in the state gave them an opportunity of investigating the question, with a reference to all the various relations of the country, and who alone were able to take upon themselves the responsibility of such measures as appeared best calculated to effect this object. Out of the very inherent principles of the poor-laws arose much of the evil of which the country complained; for certainly, when these laws took out of the hands of individuals the trouble of providing for themselves, they rendered them more careless of their own personal welfare. This was evident from the commencement of the system, when means were taken to provide for pauperism, instead of preventing it—in the first instance, by the operation of shame, and ultimately by the assistance of terror. Poor-houses were erected, and held out [408407l.l.,l.s.[406d.s.s.405s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.[404l.l.l.403l.in terroremMr. Curwen
415 said, that he had had too long experience as a magistrate, in a large and populous district, not to be as well acquainted with the sufferings of the poor, and as feelingly alive to their distress, as any of the hon. gentlemen who had addressed the House. It was from a deep sense of their distress, that he concurred in the re-appointment of the committee, which he hoped would receive a wide extension, and attentively and zealously direct its vigilance to this most important subject. Before its re-appointment, however, he would beg to suggest to them, that they would meet, not merely to consider the weight with which the poor-rates pressed upon the landed interest, but would have to consider how they might best alleviate the misery and ameliorate the condition of the poor. He could take upon himself to say, that in the district in which he had acted as a magistrate, not only had he found the instances of imposition on the part of the poor comparatively few, but that he had found them generally grateful for the relief which they received; and he, for one, was satisfied, that all the relief they received was due to them, as it kept them from starving or from plunder. He objected to a statement which had been made by an hon. gentleman in the course of the debate, of the severe and exclusive pressure which he had asserted the land to suffer from the poor-rates, for he had forgot to state how much the land had benefit ad by the poor when their condition was better, and had enabled them to maintain themselves by their industry. He concluded by strongly calling upon the committee, while they considered the landed interest, not to forget the interests of the poor.415Mr. Mansfield
[412 said, he was anxious to make a few observations on the prospects which, the appointment of a committee held out to the country. He felt that he should be guilty of a delusion, if he considered any legislative measure, such as was intended, likely to meet the extent of the mischief. The fact was, that while taxation continued undiminished, the appalling evils of the poor-rates could not be arrested. The labourer was starving, and the gentleman was struggling. Taxation was the cause why the landlord raised his rent, the farmer his farm produce, and why the labourer suffered; but the latter was the principal victim. Such was the actual state of things in the West of England, and such it would continue, until the efficient remedy, a diminution of taxation, was applied. The House might pass laws, and endeavour to enforce regulations, but the reverse of the picture would not be seen, until the labourer could rely for remuneration, not from the sluggish hand of parochial charity, but from his own honest industry. He did not expect impossibilities from his majesty's government, but he at the same time felt, that it was their duty to apply some efficient correction of the mischief; they should even outrun the exertions of parliament, because, in his judgment,
[412Mr. P. Methuen
 said, he knew it was abolished in this country, but he believed it still extended to treason committed beyond seas.Mr. Bernal
 rose, particularly as a member of that profession to which the hon. and learned attorney-general had proved himself so great an ornament, to thank him for the manly eloquence with which, he had prefaced his motion for leave to bring in a bill to abolish the barbarous law of Wager of Battle; but he begged leave to suggest to him that he believed the right of appeal could be still demanded in cases of treason committed beyond the seas, and if so, that he would also have the right abolished in that as well as in all other cases.Mr. Bernal
413 said, he did not intend to detain the House long. He apprehended, that he did not understand the subject so well as those hon. gentlemen who had spoken before him; but he thought himself called on to mention a few facts which would disprove the statement of the noble lord. He could not believe that the country was in so flourishing a situation as had been represented by the noble lord, because he had the testimony of his eyes and ears to the contrary. In the parish in which he resided when in the country, there was an increase of distress and of the number of poor. The want of gardens attached to their cottages, was a great misfortune to many poor people. In his parish there
413Mr. Alderman Waithman
l.[418 said, that it would be presumptuous in him to go over the grounds so ably gone over by his hon. and learned friend; he rose, therefore, for no purpose of discussion, but merely to state bow cordially he concurred in every thing that had been said, and to expres a hope
l.[418Mr. Denman
411l.l.,l.l. thought that much advantage might be derived from the labours of the committee. The evil arising from the Poor laws was one of a most serious nature, and the unequal manner in which they pressed upon different places was not the smallest part of it. He could not agree with the noble lord in thinking that the state of the country, with regard to the poor, was so much improved. In parts of Sussex, in a population of 18,000 persons, the poor-rates had increased from 7,000411l.l.,l.l.Mr. Walter Burrell
[402401, pursuant to his notice, rose to call the attention of the house to the present state of the Poor Laws, with a view of submitting to it the propriety of re-appointing a committee for the investigation of this important subject. Before, however, he moved a resolution to that effect, it appeared to him to be right to offer a few general observations. An inquiry had been commenced in the last session of the late parliament, and a committee had been appointed, whose labours were necessarily interrupted by its dissolution. This event took place before sufficient time had intervened to enable the committee to extend their inquiries beyond a certain point. It took place too at a time unfavourable in some degree to the success of their inquiries. In as much as the prospects of the country were then clouded, and it was not easy to distinguish temporary from permanent distress. The introduction of any legislative enactment founded upon the reports of the committee had been thus impeded by various circumstances, and the measures which were actually proposed were confined to the remedy of the more obvious and subordinate evils of the system. Those questions which involved the greatest difficulty had been left untouched. It had been thought right, however, to employ the interval in circulating the reports as widely as possible, in order to procure information; and the result was, that plans of improvement had been forwarded from a great number of parishes, generally in favour of some particular change, adapted to their own respective circumstances. This might satisfactorily account for the delay which had taken place in the deliberations of the committee, and for the small progress they had made in providing or discovering any general remedy. One
[402401Mr. Sturges Bourne
399[398397 said, that he had been intrusted with a Petition which he considered it an honour to hold; and which, but for indisposition, he should have laid before the House on an earlier day. It came from a most respectable body, the Society of Friends, commonly called Quakers, and it called upon the House to take into its serious consideration the many laws under which the punishment of death was inflicted. The same body, acting with that sobriety, temper, and moderation, by which they were distinguished, had been on more occasions than one, the first to point out and to reprobate the existence of evils of the highest magnitude. He could not forget—for to forget it would be the
399[398397Mr. Wilberforce
 hoped, that as he was the representative of the city of Londonderry, the House would bear with the observations which a sense of duty impelled him to make. He was prepared to argue, from the words of the petition itself that the petitioners were not hostile to the principle on which the present Irish grand jury laws were founded. They prayed, indeed, for the repeal or amendment of the present laws, but they did not wish to get rid of the principle on which they rested. He was truly sorry to hear the declaration of his right hon. friend, that he should decline to take the lead in this matter, because he was aware that the want of his right hon. friend's co-operation would be a serious injury to the cause which he was advocating.Sir George Hill
[394l.l.,l.; said, that he concurred with the opinion of the right hon. gentleman opposite, on the subject of the Irish grand jury laws. He therefore conceived it to be his duty to support him on the present occasion, and to resist, with all his ability, the opposition which was then making to the measure which he had so wisely and ably originated and conducted. The right hon. gentleman had filled his post most honourably, and he therefore hoped that the appeal which he had made to the House would have its due effect; and that the useful work which he had commenced would not be deserted. The opposition to it had no foundation on which it could firmly rest. The new law required that no application of money should be made without the examination of the magistracy; and he did not find that any material error had been committed by the promoters of the law in forming that enactment. In the county which he had the honour to represent, he must say that the law had met with the most complete success. The chairman of the magistracy at the sessions in his own county, to whom he had applied for information on the point, had informed him that no difficulty had occurred at their sessions; but that, on the contrary, the operation of the law had been eminently successful. This he stated from his own inquiries; and he feared that gentlemen who censured it, did not always take the precaution of understanding it. At the assizes, before that law had been tried, in the Queen's County, the amount of the presentments was 13,000[394l.l.,l.;Sir H. Parnell
 said, that the objections made to the new law were as yet only prospective, for as yet no opportunity of trying it had been afforded. He admitted that some defects might be found in it: experience might prove that, it was even materially deficient; but at least it was much to be preferred to the old system of presentments, which was even fuller of vices than of advantages: if he were required to choose between the one and the other, he would rather resign all the benefits of the old system (and many benefits undoubtedly flowed from some parts of it), than consent to the continuance of the vices which it inevitably occasioned. The great improvement upon the old law was, the publicity given to the presentments, and the compulsion to account for the expenditure, of the money; but he thought a still further amendment might be accomplished, if a clause were introduced to render the pressure of the burthen more equal upon all divisions of the. counties.Sir John Newport
[422421Onslow [422421OnslowMr. Serjeant
l.l.l.l. said, that the motion had his hearty concurrence. Property in houses was left to the discretion of its holder. Why, then, should money, the representative of property, be restricted? The holder of every other kind of property was left to manage it to his profit or his loss, as it might happen. A man could let his house at full value, at double value, or at half value. Why should not the holder of money have equal freedom? The owner of a house worth 1,000l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 observed, that as no explanation of the reasons of this motion had been given, it seemed to him a subject on which it would be better to call for the opinion of the college of physicians than of a committee of this House.Mr. Wynn
425 said, he trusted he should be able to show that there were sufficient parliamentary grounds for the present motion. The quarantine laws, it was well known, were very rigid in their nature,
425Mr. Robinson
 said, that after the explanation which had been given, he could have no possible objection to the motion. But he trusted the House would pause a little before it legislated, if a committee of the House should be of a contrary opinion to the college of physicians.Mr. Wynn
 said, that it sometimes happened, that when exchequer bills were advertised for payment, the public received for them either money or other bills. In the same way, the Bank had continued to hold exchequer bills over. The note to which the hon. member had referred was common to all returns relating to the advances made by the Bank to government; the exception was always made.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.[428 added, that the two transactions did not inter-
l.[428The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l. begged to explain his reason for putting the questions. The chancellor of the exchequer, on a former night, had said that government had paid off 5,000,000l.l.Mr. Ellice
 observed, that in a return from the Bank of England, he observed the following note:—"This account is exclusive of all exchequer bills and Irish treasury bills purchased by the Bank, whether advertised to be paid off or not." He wished to know whether this note referred to exchequer bills held by the Bank, which had been advertised to be paid off, and which that establishment had not sent in? And secondly, whether they had been so detained in consequence of any understanding with government?Mr. Ellice
427 said, he rose for the purpose of moving for leave to bring in a bill to prevent the Sweeping of Chimnies by means of Climbing Boys. As there were many members in the present parliament who were not in the last, he deemed it requisite to mention some of the circumstances which had been stated to a former parliament. The report which a committee appointed by that parliament had made, the communications which had been received from all parts of the country, and the evidence which had been collected and placed before the public for inspection, must have fully justified those who were sanguine last year, in being more sanguine during the present year. It was not necessary for him to detail the miseries to which these poor children were exposed; they met the eye of every man in his daily walks. The report of the surveyor-general of the board of works, which had been drawn up during the recess, stated that the chimnies might be divided into four classes—910 in the first, class, 50 in the second, 80 in the third, and 10 in the fourth, out of every thousand. Of these only 10 could not be swept by means of machinery. The house of a distinguished individual (be believed he might mention his name—it was earl Spencer) was said to have its chimnies constructed in such a manner as to render it impossible that they should be swept by machines: by his advice, however, machines had been applied to them; and he was happy to say, that they had all been swept by them. He would therefore affirm, that there were no chimnies which could not be swept by machines, or, if there were any, that they were only found in the mansions of the rich and opulent. The expense, therefore, of altering them could not be severely felt; or even if it were, ought not to be set in competition with the anguish and misery suffered by these
427Mr. Bennet
 begged to state the reasons which had induced him to trouble the House with the present motion. He had been on the committee which had inquired, in a former session, into the nature of the epidemic lever prevalent in London. The testimony which Dr. Roberts gave to that committee, had perfectly astonished him. Dr. Roberts had been for 24 years the principal medical attendant at Bartholomew hospital, and declared, that in all that period of his practice, he had scarcely known an instance of a fever being contagious. He hoped the House would consent to take the subject into consideration.Sir John Jackson
, after observing that he believed there would be no objection to his motion, moved, "That a Select Committee be appointed to consider of the Validity of the Doctrine of Contagion in the Plague; and to report their Observations thereupon to the House."Sir John Jackson
429 presented a Petition from
429Sir J. Graham
 observed, that the petitioners deserved the favourable consideration of the House, because this being the first general election since the last act was passed, it was doubtful whether they were acquainted with the nature of it. But it seemed from the statement of the case, that it was not in the power of the House, bound down as it was by an act of parliament, to grant the relief which had been prayed. It might be a question whether this was not a case for a special act of legislation, and whether, as in former cases in which petitioners had been prevented from entering into their recognizances, being absent on public service, a special bill might not be brought in to enable the House to grant relief.Mr. Wynn
[430 said, he thought it ad-
[430Sir J. Graham
431 said, he was at a loss to know on what grounds the proposal could be made. It had been admitted that both the petitions were in the same words; it could not be said, therefore, that the sitting member was taken by surprise. The circumstances connected with the petitions were these:—the agent of the petitioners had not been aware of the notice required on putting in sureties; when he had come to town, therefore, he had found that the time had elapsed for giving notice. He had therefore sent in another petition, signed by different electors, in
431Mr. Bathurst
[432said, he conceived a member was bound to prepare his defence from the first moment of the presentation of a
[432Mr. Wynn
 thought it fair to grant any accommodation to the sitting member that was not inconsistent with the just claims of the petitioners, who were but too likely to be inconvenienced by the extent of the delay which the hon. and learned gentleman proposed. With a view to decide fairly towards both parties, he thought it better to discharge the order, and fix the ballot for the 9th of March.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that if the hon. and learned gentleman only wished for a delay of a week, he should not, though it would be inconvenient to the petitioning party, oppose it.Mr. Bathurst
said, his application was, that the petition should be taken into consideration on some day between the 23rd and 30th of March.Mr. Brougham
 acquiesced in the arrangement proposed by the noble lord, and the ballot was accordingly fixed for the 9th of March.Mr. Brougham
, in explanation, said, that his noble friend the member for Nottingham (lord Rancliffe), had been put to this material inconvenience, that whereas if the first petition had been proceeded with, he would have had from the 7th to the 24th of February to prepare his lists; he had now only from the 17th to the 24th. He had, notwithstanding this, been put to expense and inconvenience from the presentation of the first petition. If his motion was rejected, it might, and undoubtedly would happen, that a first petition would be presented without any intention of prosecuting it. After which a second petition would be put forth, the recognizances on which might be entered into only a short time before the ballot. If the House could not fix any day between the 23rd and 30th of March, because there was no vacancy, it was to be recollected, that it was by the negligence of the petitioners that they had incurred this inconvenience. The fair course for them to have pursued, would have been to have acted as the petitioners in the Camelford election had done—to have abandoned the first petition before the second was presented. If the House should object to a long delay, there was the 9th of March which stood open, as the petition from Oxford would not be prosecuted as an election petition.Mr. Brougham
 stated the case to the House or which he intended to move, that the consideration of the petition against the election for Nottingham should be postponed. Two petitions had been presented against the return for that town: one on the 25th of January, and the other on the 3rd of February. The petitions were in the same words, but signed by different voters. The first petition which had been presented was ordered to be taken into consideration on the 2nd of March; and the second, which was presented before the first was abandoned, was ordered to be taken into consideration on the same day. After this, the first petition was abandoned. If the second petition had been presented after the first had been abandoned, it could not have been taken into consideration till between the 23rd and 30th of February, but by keeping the first petition alive till the second was presented, the petitioners had been forced into a priority over petitions which had been presented earlier. This was shortly, the ground on which he had to apply to the candour and justice of the House, to put the sitting member in the same situation as if the first petition had not been presented. The hardship on the member petitioned against, was, that as the last day on which the petitioners might put in their recognizances was the 17th of February, and as the petition was to be taken into consideration on the 2nd of March, the member had only six clear days to prepare his lists. He therefore moved, that the order for taking the petition into consideration on the 2nd of March be discharged.Mr. Brougham
 said, the objection had occurred to others in preparing the bill; but upon consideration, all agreed that without this provision the bill would be ineffectual.Mr. Stuart Wortley
 was glad that the objection had struck others as well as himself.Mr. Denman
 observed, that as the proposal to abolish the appeal of murder had called forth some remarks in another place, it might be advisable that the committee should stand over for some time, to see whether any petitions were presented against that measure. The law, too, proposed to abolish the Wager of Battle, not only in writs of right hereafter to be brought, but in any which might be now depending. Though he did not know that there were any such writs now depending, he thought it would be a bad precedent in legislation, to introduce a clause having an effect upon suits depending.Mr. Denman
 said, he had observed a clause in the bill which he considered highly objectionable: it offered a reward to offenders, on their giving information against those who had employed them. This provision appeared to him to encourage the offence against which it professed to guard, and to ensure frequent falsehoods in informations. If the bill could not be carried into effect without this provision, he would rather lose it altogether. What was its object, but merely to mark with a hammer, wrought-iron, so as to distinguish it from cast-iron?Mr. Denman
 said, that the question here appeared to him to be, not whether the House was disposed to grant the prayer of the petition, but whether they were not precluded by the act from interfering at all. The case was not one in which the recognizances had been entered into before the fourteen days had elapsed, and the report had not been made in time to the House; neither was it a case in which the enlargement of the time was prayed for before the expiration of the fourteen days; but it was a case in which the recognizances had not been entered into before the fourteen days had elapsed after the petition had been presented. The House had already enlarged the time for giving information to that House, but that enlargement had no reference to the case now before them. The act said, that good and sufficient security must be got within fourteen days, and it allowed that period to be enlarged only once, and that for thirty days. But the question really was, whether it was not imperative on the House to have granted that enlargement before the fourteen days elapsed. In the present case, it would not be an enlargement, but a revival of the time. The question then was, whether the House, having prolonged the period once, for receiving information as to recognizances having been entered into, could now revive the period for entering into those recognizances?The Speaker
433"That the Petitioners have long and deeply lamented the extent and prevalence of female prostitution, and its unhappy and pernicious effects on society at large, but more especially among the rising generation; and that they are convinced that the number of brothels and disorderly houses which are to be found in various parts of the metropolis, and the methods which are devised and practised by the proprietors of such houses to evade the existing laws, have greatly contributed to the continuance and increase of this alarming evil; that, notwithstanding the utmost vigilance of the magistracy, their efforts have too frequently proved unavailing for the suppression of houses of this infamous description, by reason of the heavy expenses which attend the prosecution of the parties by indictment, and the ease with which they can occasion delay, by the adoption of legal artifices; also, on account of the great and almost insuperable difficulty of procuring evidence of that nature and degree which the existing laws require to convict the owners or occupiers of such disorderly houses and brothels; that in many instances of conviction and punishment, after much delay and expense, the occupiers are found
433 presented a Petition from the Lord Mayor, &c. setting forth,
433"That the Petitioners have long and deeply lamented the extent and prevalence of female prostitution, and its unhappy and pernicious effects on society at large, but more especially among the rising generation; and that they are convinced that the number of brothels and disorderly houses which are to be found in various parts of the metropolis, and the methods which are devised and practised by the proprietors of such houses to evade the existing laws, have greatly contributed to the continuance and increase of this alarming evil; that, notwithstanding the utmost vigilance of the magistracy, their efforts have too frequently proved unavailing for the suppression of houses of this infamous description, by reason of the heavy expenses which attend the prosecution of the parties by indictment, and the ease with which they can occasion delay, by the adoption of legal artifices; also, on account of the great and almost insuperable difficulty of procuring evidence of that nature and degree which the existing laws require to convict the owners or occupiers of such disorderly houses and brothels; that in many instances of conviction and punishment, after much delay and expense, the occupiers are found
433The Sheriffs of London
, on moving that the petition be printed, took the opportunity of reminding the House of the great importance of the subject. The present law was, he said, quite insufficient to repress the existing evil. The disgraceful mode in which those unfortunate women were managed during their confinement, kept without labour, and mixed up with paupers, was also a topic that demanded serious attention. It was not his intention to propose any measure on the subject; but perhaps the law officers of the crown would, at some future period, apply themselves to its legislative correction.Mr. Alderman Wood
 laid on the table papers relating to the Slave Trade, and minutes of the conferences which had taken place on this subject at the Congress of Aix-la-Chapelle.Lord Castlereagh
 concurred, that members could not be prepared for a discussion on the subject until the papers had been printed; he therefore would postpone his notice until Friday next.Lord Castlereagh
[434 observed, that there
[434Lord Castlereagh
435, in moving the order of the day for the House to resolve itself into a committee on this bill, begged to be allowed to make one or two observations on the subject. He understood that he had been accused of having surreptitiously introduced into the bill the Abolition of Appeals of Murder—his original proposition being merely the Abolition of the Wager of Battle; and that he had also been accused of hurrying the measure through the House. The truth of those charges he utterly and absolutely denied. He might appeal to every hon. gentleman who was a member of the last parliament, whether, in giving notice on the subject in the last session, he did not distinctly state that it was his intention to propose the Abolition of Appeals, and of course the Wager of Battle as comprehended in them. He did not at the time of giving that notice, name a day for making his motion, because he knew that various opinions were entertained on the subject, and he wished hon. gentlemen to turn their minds to it in the interval between the dissolution of the last and the assembling of the present parliament. When, in the present session, he gave notice of his motion, he also distinctly stated that he intended to propose the Abolition of Appeals of Murder, and having brought in the bill
435The Attorney General
 perfectly acquitted the hon. and learned gentleman of all intention either surreptitiously to introduce a subject into the bill of which he had given no notice, or of endeavouring to hurry or smuggle the measure through the House. On the contrary, the hon. and learned gentleman had given more than the usual and necessary notice of his proposition. The hon. baronet said, that he wished to save one part of the law of appeal; namely, that which was made in cases of murder; and he intended, when the bill was recommitted, to submit an amendment to that effect. He admitted it would be a hardship to have any man liable to be tried twice for the same offence; but he considered the right of appeal in such cases necessary, as a protection against an undue exercise of the power of the crown in pardoning persons convicted of murder.Sir F. Burdett
 made two objections to it. The first was that the laws as they stood at present gave the climbing boys sufficient protection; and the second, that the machinery which was proposed to be substituted for them was not found to succeed.Mr. Ommaney
 said, that the House knew how important a subject was a charge against any of the learned judges of the land, and that it ought not, in fairness, to be gone into, until every information on both sides were before them. He should, therefore, put it to the hon. member, whether it would not be better to postpone his motion until his right hon. friend (Mr. C. Grant), the representative of the Irish government, was present. He would be in his place in a few days, and it was natural to believe that he possessed more information upon the subject than any of his majesty's ministers in the House. He was satisfied that the hon. member did not intend to produce any unfavourable impression against the learned judge, until the whole of the subject could be gone into; and he trusted, therefore, he would consent to the delay. For his own part, ignorant as he was of the transaction alluded to, he felt it a duty to state, from a personal knowledge of the learned judge, that there was no one of the learned judges of either kingdom, to whom the strictly honourable character which happily belonged to them all might be more peculiarly applied than to him. The noble lord concluded by expressing a hope, that the hon. member would, for the present, consent to withdraw his motion.Lord Castlereagh
 thought it would be entertaining the charge against the learned judge, to consent to the motion at present. He therefore suggested that it should he withdrawn, and when brought forward, that it should be simply for the documents alluded to; without going into the merits of the case, until it should be seen from those documents, whether it was one which the House ought to go into.Mr. Wynn
437 said, that as the opposition to his measure was postponed, he would of- course also postpone his defence of it. He fervently hoped that it would be fairly considered, his firm
437Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 also expressed his intention of postponing his opposition to the bill. It appeared to him to be much too bold an experiment at the present time; and he trusted that at a future stage the hon. and learned gentleman would be induced to withdraw the measure.Mr. Protheroe
 said, that if the hon. member had devoted an hour of his time to reading the reports of the committees which had investigated the matter, be would have found a complete and satisfactory answer to his objections. The answer to the first might be found in the evidence of the masters themselves, who had all admitted that the laws were not sufficient for the protection of the children. His answer to the second objection would be, that that could not be called a failure in the machinery which succeeded in 990 cases out of 1000.Mr. Bennet
 said, he did not intend to offer any objection to the bill in its present stage, nor to its going into a committee; but when the report of the committee should be brought up, he should feel it his duty to give the measure every opposition in his power.Mr. Calcraft
 wished to obtain from the noble lord some information on another important point connected with this interesting question. The House were aware that conventions had been signed between this country and Spain and Portugal, for the establishment of commissions for the adjudication of captured slave ships on the coast of Africa, in South America, and in the island of Trinidad. The ratifications of those conventions were to be exchanged within a limited time; and at the expiration of twelve months at the latest, the commissions were to be established. He wished to know whether that desirable object had yet been accomplished, and if not, when it was probable that it would be attained.Mr. Smyth
[438, in pursuance of notice, rose to move for a copy of the bill of indictment found against Edward Burk, and the proceedings had thereon. After some preliminary observations, the hon. gentleman proceeded to state, that in 1815 a bill of indictment, at his instance, had been found against Edward Burk, for wilful and corrupt perjury; that in consequence of the bill having been found against Mr. Burk, he would have been put on his trial, but for an affidavit, in which he stated the absence of a material witness, of the name of Brown. Another affidavit had been put in by him (Mr. Martin) contradicting the statement in the affidavit of Mr. Burk, but the Court had thought fit to postpone the trial of Mr. Burk to a subsequent term. However, it was not his wish now to object to this first postponement. But at the following term, he, in his turn, had moved for the postponement of the trial to a future terra, on account of the absence of a material witness, Mr. Colliss, an eminent barrister, who was then ill of a bilious fever. His application appeared to him a reasonable one. In his affidavit he had Stated, that he heard Mr. Colliss was in such a slate of indisposition that he could not with safety to his life attend on his trial. He also stated that Mr. Colliss had been served with a subpoena to appear and give evidence at this trial. Mr. Baron M'Lelland, the judge who presided on the trial, objected, however, to that affidavit, for a curious reason, because the person who made the affidavit had not sworn positively that he had seen Mr. Colliss, or could state from his own knowledge, that he could not positively attend. In order to remove this objection of Baron M'Lelland, he had produced the affidavit of a physician, who swore that Mr. Colliss could not, with safety to his life, give testimony at that trial. However, though the trial was postponed when all the witnesses for this crown were in attendance, the Court would not consent to postpone it in November, on account of the absence of a material Witness for the prosecution. The application, too, was not made to postpone the trial to the next commission, but merely from day to day. He had merely wished to have it removed from
[438Mr. R. Martin
 complained, that a strange delay had occurred in sending out the commissioners. He did not mean to impute it to the noble lord opposite; but the House should know, that every day which was suffered to pass before they went out, signed the death-warrant of hundreds of their fellow-creatures.Mr. Wilberforce
 said, that the documents were too voluminous to be taken into consideration to-morrow, as the noble lord had proposed.Mr. Wilberforce
[436 said, he would have offered himself upon this subject on a former occasion, had he anticipated any serious objection to the bill; but he considered it so wise and so much called for a measure, that he did not imagine any individual would have opposed it. He would listen with pleasure to any argu-
[436Sir James Mackintosh
 said, he held in his tend a Petition, which, whatever might be the general opinion of the country on the subject, he was able to say was signed by several hundred of as substantial and respectable individuals, as were to be found of the same description and profession in any part of the united kingdom. They were occupiers and owners of land in the county of Northumberland. He knew the signatures of most of them, and could bear testimony to their being most respectable and substantial farmers. The petitioners alleged that the sale and productions of this country were sufficient to support its present population, and would be sufficient to support a greater population; and they therefore submitted to the consideration of the House, the impolicy of permitting the importation, free from duty, of the productions of foreign countries of a nature similar to that of our own; because such permission tended to disable the agriculturists of the country from paying the taxes and expenses imposed on, and belonging to, the employment they followed. The petitioners prayed the House to take the subject into consideration, and refer it to a committee, before which they might adduce what evidence they could in support of their allegations, and if those allegations should be proved to be true, they prayed that the House would take such steps as might afford to the cultivators of the soil protection similar to that which the merchants and manufacturers of the kingdom enjoyed in the practice of their occupations from the existing laws.Sir C. Monck
 said, that the order for going into a committee of the House on the Prince Regent's Message, and that part of the Speech of the Lords Commissioners, which related to the Royal Establishment at Windsor, had been fixed for Thursday, the 18th. He understood the report of the committee up stairs would be ready to be laid before the House on Wednesday; but as the interval between that and the following day was not sufficient to permit members to examine it, he thought it expedient that the former order should be discharged, and a new one made for Monday.Lord Castlereagh
 could not imagine that any objection could be raised against a principle equally consonant with humanity and justice. In arranging the details of the measure, there might perhaps arise difficulties, which be should meet with every disposition to remove or surmount.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the object of the bill was one highly to be approved of. He had himself brought forward a measure somewhat similar, in the last parliament, and he was glad to see the subject in hands much more able, and much more likely to bring it to a successful issue.Mr. Davies Gilbert
 said, that all he contended for was, the principle of the bill: objections might be made to the detail, but he hoped his bill would not be involved in one of a more complicated nature, which had been formerly introduced into the House.Sir John Newport
[444 said, that in the view which he himself took of the case, he thought that the House were not called on to consider the alleged hardship. The time fixed by law had been allowed, but the law had not been complied with, nor bad: any thing particular been stated with regard to this case which prevented compliance. The hon. and learned gentleman did not complain of the want of liberality on the part of the House, but he complained of the hardship of the law in general. The hon. and learned gentleman, however, would see, that where the law was distinctly laid down, the House was not in the habit of deviating from it. In each of the two cases which had been cited, there was some reason assigned—some ground for claiming an extension of time; but here there was none. It did not appear that the hon. and learned gentleman, by the examination of the agent for the petitioners, had come to the House to-night better informed as to the circumstances of the case, than he had been last night: his researches on the subject seemed to have been confined to inquiries into
[444Mr. Bathurst
 said, that in all such cases, he conceived that applications of this kind should be discouraged, unless when they arose out of circumstances of imperious necessity. It was much to be desired, that on all occasions they should adhere as strictly as possible to precedents. Where circumstances, over which a petitioner had no control, prevented a compliance with the law, the House would grant an indulgence, but not in other cases; indeed, the instances in which it had been granted were not many. In two cases it had been extended on the petitioners applying before the time had expired, because that circumstance showed that they had been desirous to comply with the law. With regard to the two' cases cited by his hon. and learned friend, he thought, that had the circumstances of those cases been considered properly, it would not have appeared right to grant the indulgence. The hon. gentleman then cited many instances of time being extended to petitioners, but in all of them it appeared that the petitioners had done all in their power to comply with the act. He concluded by saying, that he was of; opinion, that if indulgence were granted in such cases as the present, a door would be opened to negligence on the part of petitioners.Mr. Wynn
custos personœ.l. said, that he should then on Monday take the sense of the House on the grant, which he understood was to be recommended, of 10,000custos personœ.l.Mr. Tierney
441l.l. observed, that the accounts for which, in pursuance of Ins notice, he was about to move, were of three descriptions. The first related to the issues of paper by the Bank of Ireland; the second to deposits of the public money in the Bank of Ireland; the third, to the remuneration on the part of the public to the Bank of Ireland for the management of the public debt and other services. With respect to the first subject, the issues of paper, he believed it would appear that those issues had increased since 1797, in a much greater proportion than the issues of the Bank of England; for that, being in 1797, only 600,000441l.l.Mr. Grenfell
, notwithstanding the side-wind attack which the hon. gentleman had just made on the Bank of England, hoped the House would abstain from forming any opinion on the subject, until the hon. gentleman should make the motion which he had given notice of his intention to make after Easter, when he trusted he should be able to satisfy the House that the charges made by the Bank of England for the management of the public debt, and for other services to the public, were perfectly reasonable, and such as ought to be allowed.Mr. Manning
443 observed, that by the indulgence of the House he was now enabled to make a short statement of the grounds on which the petitioners prayed for the enlargement in question; in doing which the House would perceive that their equity and liberality were strongly appealed to by the circumstances of the case. The time prescribed for entering into recognizances was 14 days. He conceived, that the effect of the determination of the House to adhere rigorously to the rule in the case of petitions from remote parts of Ireland, would be to shut the door of the House against such petitions. By the provisions of the act, recognizances could not be entered into without giving eight days notice, which eight days were included in the 14 days; and it would be impossible in the remaining time to comply with the rule, in the case of petitions from the extreme parts of Ireland, such as the county of Galway. The question for the House, therefore, was, whether they would pass the utmost verge of possibility, and fix a time for the entering into recognizances in petitions from the extreme parts of Ireland, in which communication
443Sir J. Mackintosh
 declared, that he did not agree with the opinion of the petitioners. But with regard to the remarks of the gallant officer, he begged to observe, that it was impossible for any gentleman to stifle those petitions, as the gallant officer desired. The petitioners, it should be understood, only asked for the appointment of a committee, in. order that they might have an opportunity of proving the truth of their allegations, and he could see no objection to the presentation of such a petition. It was, indeed, his duty to present it; and whatever might be his own opinion, he submitted that he was the representative of agriculturists as well as of manufacturers; and that it was incumbent upon him to attend to the interests and wishes of both. He had advised the petitioners not to urge this petition, but still as they required him to present it, he could not consistently decline to do so.Mr. Stuart Worthy
 concurred with the gallant officer in deprecating such petitions as that under consideration, observing, that in order to settle the matter, it would be much better in the hon. member to move at once for the appointment of a committee to consider the corn laws. The country had been thrown into a state of suspense and uneasiness, by the rumours afloat, and the petitions circulating upon the subject of the corn laws. It was apprehended, indeed, that some legislative measure was in contemplation upon this subject, and hence considerable alarm was excited. To decide, then, upon the question at once, it was rather to be wished that the hon. member would move for the appointment of a committee, which motion would, he had no doubt, be rejected.Mr. Alderman Wood
447 said, he could not agree with the last speaker, that a motion should be made for any committee upon, this subject, or that any farther legislative measure should be proposed with regard to corn. It was, no doubt, the duty of
447Mr. Wynn
 assured the House, that he had no intention of bringing forward any motion for a committee.Mr. Stuart Worthy
 presented a Petition from certain master chimney sweepers against the Chimney Sweepers' Regulation bill, which the petitioners stated to be a measure of injustice, and likely t do great injury to the public. The hon. member stated, that since his observations upon this subject on a former evening, he had become better acquainted with the merits of the case. He was assured that the machines proposed were quite insufficient for the purpose of cleaning the generality of chimneys, while if those machines were universally adopted, the poor boys now employed, and who were originally taken from poor houses, must be deprived of subsistence. While the pressure of poor rates was so much complained of, this part of the subject was worthy of consideration, not only with a view to those youths who might, through the adoption of the bill, be thrown out of employment, but with a view to those who would not hereafter be taken from the poor houses to be so employed.Mr. Ommaney
449 expressed a hope that what the last speaker had said would be duly considered by the House, for what was to become of those boys who were at present fed and supported by cleaning chimneys, if this employment were done away? But the fact was, that this employment could not be done away until chimneys were differently constructed, and the first part of the plan of the hon. mover of this bill ought to be to propose an alteration in the structure of some hundred thousands of chimneys. But as to the poor-rates, they must be increased by the adoption of this bill. It was notorious that the use of machinery had already thrown a number of people out of employment, and it was obvious that the adoption of the machine proposed by the author of this bill would have a similar effect. But if a measure of this nature were adopted, a private man would hardly know what to do. With an act of parliament on one side, and an attorney on the other, he would be perpetually embarrassed. He agreed with the hon. mover
449Sir J. Yorke
 said, that in the next building act he should certainly feel it his duty to propose a clause with regard to the structure of chimneys, so as to admit the employment of the machine; but of all the chimneys in London, those which most required alteration were the warm flues constructed for the use of the higher orders. It was to be lamented, indeed, that those structures should be persisted in, as they contributed to consequences so injurious to the health and morals of youth. With regard to the hon. officer's allusion to the case of boys employed on board ship, until he heard that pins were stuck into their feet, and straw lighted under them, in order to compel them to climb a mast, he could not conceive any analogy between their case and that of the poor youths employed in sweeping chimneys.Mr. Bennet
 said, he imagined the cases cited were excessively exaggerated; but as to the pins and lighted straw, he could assure the hon. member he had often seen boys forced to ascend to the mast-head by a captain who followed him with a cat-o'-nine tails in his hand—a tolerably convincing argument.Sir J. Yorke
[450 said, he could not avoid expressing his admiration of the humanity of his hon. friend, in exerting himself so assiduously to alleviate the sufferings of his fellow creatures. He stated that he had made some inquiries on the subject of this bill, at a fire-office in the city, and the secretary had informed him, that the average number of fires in chimneys swept in the usual manner was 60 or 70 per month: in those cases in which machines had been used in sweeping chimneys, the average number did not exceed two per month. Here, then, was a proportion of 2 to 65 in favour of machines. The next question he had put was—what was the proportion between the number of chimneys swept in the ordinary way, and those swept by machinery? The secretary could not say exactly, but he knew that
[450Mr. Grenfell
 said, he was hostile to the principle of abolishing the use of climbing boys, as it would deprive parish officers of the opportunity of apprenticing boys out. He was also of opinion that machines could not, in many cases, be made use of.Mr. Ommaney
 was sure the hon. gentleman could not have read the report of the committee on the subject, because it both recommended the adoption of machinery, and considered and condemned the practice eulogised by the last speaker. Whoever had children of his own, and read that report, could not but feel an anxiety to have the unfortunate, oppressed climbing boys relieved; and if there were any houses with chimneys that could not be swept by machinery, it would be much better to let them be burned down.Colonel Wood
451sui juris, felt at all times averse to the principle of interference between master and servant, and child and father. But the present bill only went to regulate the labour of those who were unable to make the necessary arrangements for themselves. Interference in such a case became a duty, if not as matter of right, certainly as matter of expediency; and he would only interfere where little less than crime was attempted to be practised, as between father and child, and master and servant. If the parties to be protected had been of an age sufficient to protect themselves, he thought the principle of interference would not only be wrong, but criminal, be the nature of their employment ever so unwholesome or severe. But, in the present case, as the boys were not 451sui juris,Mr. Brougham
[452 said, he was sorry to be compelled to disturb the unanimity of the House on the present occasion; but it appeared to him, that interference might be carried too far, and that it was in point of fact, carried too far in this case. If chimneys could be swept by machinery cheaper and better than by boys, he could not conceive that the people of this country were so attached to cruel treatment merely because it was cruel, as to continue to sweep with children, when if would be better to sweep with machinery. If, as had been stated by an hon. gentleman, on the authority of the fire-offices, that machinery was safer and better, he should think it was quite enough to state this to the public in order to induce them to adopt machinery. When he found in this bill a series of clauses, empowering a single justice to convict on the evidence of a single witness, and the functions of a jury superseded, he could not help viewing it as extremely objectionable. He must see a strong case of necessity made out before he could vote for such a measure. He was sorry to differ from his hon. friend, and he did not mean to say, that the present was a visionary interference; but he thought the good sense of the public was sufficient to correct the evil without loading the statute book with another penal law, every penal law being in his opinion a great evil. At first he had thought that the measure of his hon. friend merely went to the employment of children of very tender age; but he now found that the measure was of a much more comprehensive nature. It might be proper that children of tender
[452Mr. Denman
453 said, that with regard to the argument urged by the hon. and-learned gentleman, he would remind him, that the argument of interest did not-always furnish an incentive to action; for he was old enough to know, that in many cases men acted in direct opposition both to their own interest, and to the dictates of humanity. During the continuance of the slave- trade, surely both interest and humanity might have prompted the owner to take every measure in his power, for the safety and comfort of his slaves, in conveying them from Africa to the West Indies; but did these motives operate in the powerful manner in which the hon. and learned gentleman contended that they must always do? In such cases as those for which the present bill was intended to provide, every man might think that he had a right to judge for himself. It was well known, however, that in general, improvements and discoveries were long in being adopted, as was sufficiently apparent from the slow progress' of machinery in manufactures; but no proof of this fact could be stronger, or more in point on the present occasion, than the history of vaccination. In this
453Mr. Wilberforce
 said, that twenty years ago sweeping boys had never been heard of in the vicinity of the place where he resided, and when he took steps to introduce the use of them, so great was the force of custom, that actual resistance was offered to it, and at the present time not one out of ten chimneys was swept in that part of the country.Mr. Barham
[454 wished that the word "eight" should be substituted, remarking that the picture which had been drawn of the unhappy state of these creatures was far from correct. He had had much experience as an overseer in town and country, and had never seen the symptoms of misery in their countenance; on the contrary, they were generally possessed of good animal spirits, and were gay,
[454Mr. Ommaney
 was resolved not to yield the point. He was astonished to hear any person, without having read a line of the report, venture to hazard an opinion; and still more so, that when those beings exhibited every symptom of premature old age, distorted limbs, humped backs, and sickly constitutions, the hon. gentleman, should represent them as flourishing in health and strength, and forming a nursery for the navy.Mr. Bennet
 said, that he had not, in the course of forty years experience, known a single instance of a sweep joining the navy.Sir Isaac Coffin
 was at a loss to know, when the hon. gentleman could have seen so much animation in the countenances of these boys, but perhaps it was after one of them had been tortured in a chimney for several hours, and when his features had been rendered cheerful on finding himself relieved from pain.Mr. Alderman Wood
 stated an instance, in which a boy was disposed of by his parent. A poor woman went out for a short time, leaving her husband and son at home; on her return she found that her husband had actually sold the boy to a master chimneysweep.Mr. Bennet
 objected to the clause. It was possible, he said, that the chimneys of palaces and public buildings might be swept with machines; but who had entered into the smaller dwellings and ascertained whether it was possible to introduce them in these houses? It had been admitted that, on some occasions, boys might be absolutely necessary; he thought, therefore, that the House should pause before they rendered it impossible to obtain assistance in case of emergency.Mr. Denman
 said, it was in vain to talk, if masters were allowed to send boys up chimneys, for if those of eight years were allowed, they would have them younger; if of ten years, they would have them of eight; and if of twelve, they would have them often. Every misery was tolerated under the old act, and if this clause was objected to, the misery, instead of being removed would be aggravated.Mr. Bennet
 agreed with many of the observations made by the hon. gentleman, and hoped that the appointment of a committee would lead to some speedy and radical improvement in the condition of the public roads. The highway and turnpike acts differed very materially in many of their provisions; the consequence of which had been, that a race of informers had sprung up in many parts of the country, not only detrimental to its peace, but creative of much unpleasant feeling amongst inoffensive and unoffending individuals. Informers should be put down at any hazard, in order that the public peace should not be embroiled, nor the public morals contaminated. By one of those acts, the carrying of manure had been allowed toll free; but by another, if extra horses had been used for the purpose of more easily carrying the load, they became subjected to a very heavy toll. The committee would, he hoped, give to the question its most earnest attention, and with the anticipation of a favourable issue to their labours, he felt happy in seconding the motion.Mr. Cripps
 asked, whether the inquiry into the turnpike trusts was to be retrospective, or only prospective?Sir M. W. Ridley
 replied, certainly not retrospective.Mr. Protheroe
l. thought it of great importance that the whole system of highways and turnpikes should be inquired into; for, in his opinion, that subject was intimately connected with the poor laws. In the course of last year, a sum of 1,500,000l.Colonel Wood
 rose, not for the purpose of offering any opposition to the motion, but merely to say, that having on one occasion acted on a committee of the same nature with that proposed, he had heard abundant evidence to satisfy him of the expediency and necessity of investigating the subject. Many witnesses had stated before that committee, that the duties had of late years been doubled, without any improvement being effected in the roads.Sir H. Parnell
 presented the followingMr. Vesey Fitzgerald
 said, that the part of the country with which he was connected, was well contented with the law as it stood, and the distinct declaration on the part of ministers, he was sure, had had a powerful and beneficial effect in all the farming districts. He hoped that no encouragement would be given to the presenting of petitions of this kind in future.Sir James Graham
 presented a Petition from the occupiers of lands in the West Riding of, York, for imposing protecting duties on the importation of provisions. On the motion, that it do lie on the table,Mr. Stuart Wortley
445 said:— Sir; I really was in hopes, from what passed in this House on the very first day of the session,
445Sir Robert Wilson
448 again disclaimed any intention to interfere with the subjects' right to petition, but repeated his opinion, that gentlemen who consulted the public peace should endeavour to dissuade those upon whom they had influence out of doors, from urging petitions of this nature. Neither had he any intention of depreciating the character of the agricultural body; but he felt it his peculiar duty to attend to the fair claims of the manufacturing interests and of the labouring classes. He had no doubt that it would be much more for the interest of the agricultural body, to content them-
448Sir R. Wilson
 disclaimed any intention to deprecate the presentation of a petition from any body of men, adding, that he meant only to impress upon the House, that the agitation of the question referred to by the petitioners was but too likely to produce a great deal of mischief, and that to prevent such agitation, it was desirable that gentlemen should use all fair influence to prevent petitions of this nature from being presented.Sir R. Wilson
 rose to present a Petition from the agent acting in London on behalf of the freeholders of the county of Cork, whose petition had been presented on the 22d of January last, complaining of an undue return in the elections for that county. The present petition prayed that time for entering the recognizances on the former petition might be enlarged. The ground on which the prayer of the petition was supported was, that an opinion had prevailed, almost universally throughout Ireland, that the act 53rd Geo. 3rd, which prescribed the time within which recognizances should be entered on election petitions did not extend to Ireland. The petition stated that several opinions from high legal authorities confirmed this construction of the act.Sir John Newport
[462 said, that according to the general rule kid down by the House, the prayer of this petition could not be attended to. To state that the petitioner, or the party concerned, had acted on a misconception of that rule was not a sufficient reason to induce the House to depart from the rule. In the present case the misconception was most extraordinary and yet it was one which seemed to have pervaded the whole of Ireland, The only
[462Mr. Wynn
 thought the question deserved the serious consideration of the House. As to introducing any bill to settle the question, it was to be considered that its operation would be retrospective, and as such he could not think it desirable.Mr. Bathurst
463 said, that he would
463Sir John Newport
 said, that after what had passed on this subject, it would perhaps be proper for him to apprise the House that two other applications had already been made to them on the same subject, but that no definitive order had been yet entered upon the Journals respecting them, nor had the applications yet been absolutely discharged. The order with respect to them stood on the order book. The observations which might be offered to the House, now or on a future occasion would therefore include the case of the Drogheda and Galway petitions, as well as that just now laid upon the table.The Speaker
 thought that, under the present circumstances, there were several considerations which demanded the attention of the House. The words of the act expressly provided, that the time for entering the recognizances could only be enlarged once. But on looking into the precedents on the subject, he found that on several occasions the House had thought itself competent to revive as well as to enlarge the time. The Shaftesbury case he thought a sufficient authority on this point.Mr. Wynn
 begged to remind the House, that in two out of the three cases in which the application had now been made for enlarging the time, that application had been refused by the House; therefore, if on the petition now presented an order was made for enlarging the time, there would appear on the Journals contradictory orders on precisely the same question.The Speaker
[464 said, the duties were imposed to answer a variety of charges, and, he apprehended, these being answered, the surplus belong-
[464The Chancellor of the Exchequer
—I have not looked particularly into the subject; but ever since the capture of Gibraltar, the revenue of that place, as well as of other fortresses, has been vested in the Crown.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
[484483marry[482481[480479 said, that in the observations which he had to make he should confine himself to the general scope and view of the motion, rather than enter on the details and particular grounds which the hon. gentleman had brought before the house. He assured the hon. gentleman that he should very much regret if he were to suppose that he was not ac-
[484483marry[482481[480479Lord Castlereagh
 observed, that he was sure his hon. friend did not mean to misstate him, although he really was doing so. He had strongly recommended inquiry.Lord Castlereagh
 explained. He did not object to inquiry: he was as much disposed to it as his hon. friend, and only differed from him in the manner in which it ought to be conducted. He was for what he thought the best sort of inquiry.Lord Castlereagh
[502501**[500499[498 observed, that when his hon. friend, the member for Bramber, imputed to his noble friend two speeches inconsistent with each other, the remark appeared to have been rather prophetic of the character of the speech to be delivered by the hon. and learned gentleman who had just sat down: who had certainly in the latter part of his speech, diverged much more widely than his noble friend, not only from the real question in debate, but from his own declared view of that question. The hon. and learned gentleman had commenced his address to the House, as if he conceived the reformation of the criminal law to be the real matter in discussion. But before he came to his conclusion he appeared to have lost sight of that topic altogether, and discussed the question before the House as if it related wholly to the policy to be observed with respect to Botany Bay, considered as a colony—and to the introduction and cultivation of usages there conformable to the principles of the British constitution. Now, much as he knew his hon. friend, the member for Bramber, concurred with him in admiring the British constitution, he did not think the hon. and learned gentleman would find his hon. friend an advocate for applying the principles of the British constitution to every colony, under every mode of colonial existence. Nay, he remembered that he and his hon. friend had once fought side by side in hostility to such a principle; he alluded to an occasion on which they had contended, and contended successfully, to exempt the island of Trinidad, under the peculiar circumstances in which that colony was placed, from a participation in the British constitution, in order that, for obvious purposes, it might remain more immediately under the control of the Crown. The hon. and learned gentleman, however, carried his wishes on that subject much further. He acknowledged no exception to his general doctrine. The hon. and learned gentleman asserted, that in the simple times of their ancestors there was not a colonial rock in the ocean
[502501**[500499[498Mr. Canning
 also explained, and contended that the whole substance and gist of the Quakers' petition was what he had asserted it to be.Mr. Canning
 contended, that the motion of his noble friend would go to the extent of ascertaining whether it was possible to abolish capital punishment; consequently the state of the gaols and hulks, and the treatment of the convicts at Botany Bay, must come under consideration, and be connected with the inquiry. It appeared to him that an inquiry by commission upon the spot would be more effectual than one conducted at 4,000 miles distance; and that if the subject were referred to three committees, it would require a fourth to digest the substance of the reports of those committees before the House could come to any rational opinion upon them.Mr. Bathurst
 against the original motion, and fully acquitted the ministers of any charge of inhumanity, or of any disregard to the comfort of the convicts. Upon referring to the documents before the House, it would be seen that the mortality among the convicts, on board the transports was less during the same period of time than among those on board the hulks, or those confined in the Penitentiary at Milbank. He was ready to admit that an inquiry was necessary to be instituted into the state of the colony of New South Wales; but the question was, whether that inquiry would be best made by a commission op the spot or by a committee in this country about 4,000 or 5,000 miles distant.Mr. Marryat spoke
[508 expressed his decided approbation of the original motion, and he
[508Mr. Wynn
 addressed a few observations to the House respecting the conduct of Mr. Macquarrie, as governor of the colony of New South Wales. He had the honour of being personally acquainted with that gentleman, and he was convinced that the more strict the inquiry was into his conduct, the more the House would be satisfied that he had been guided in all his actions by the most humane feelings.Mr. Forbes
 explained, that he did not assert that he would not give credit to the statements of the hon. member; he had only said that he would not act upon them.Mr. Canning
[506505[504503 congratulated the right hon. gentleman on the happy disposition, and no less happy knack he possessed, of turning into jest the gravest subjects. Such a facility had been now and then attributed to him (Mr. Tierney); but if he had ever enjoyed it, the powers of the right hon. gentleman far exceeded his; or, to invert a figure of his own, were as
[506505[504503Mr. Tierney
—Then the right hon. gentleman does not know by what authority the merchants at Gibraltar are liable to the payment of certain duties. All he can say is, that the amount of those duties, not applicable to the payment of particular charges there, are appropriated to the use of the Crown.Mr. Tierney
—I ask under what authority are these duties collected? and by what authority are they considered the exclusive property of the Crown?Mr. Tierney
 wished to ask of the chancellor of the exchequer a question of considerable importance. He did not know whether he was or was not rightly informed, but he had been told, that certain duties were levied on the merchants at Gibraltar, for the payment of particular charges; after defraying which, a large surplus remained which was transmitted to this country. Now he desired to know, by what authority those duties were levied, and to what account the surplus was placed when it arrived in England?Mr. Tierney
[478l.d.s.477[476475l.[474l.473[472471d.d.d.s.s.s.[470l.l.l.l.l.l.469[468467s.l.l.s.l.l.s.l.l.s.l.l.s.l.l.d.s,l.l.l.[466465 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for the appointment of a committee to inquire into the management of the Hulks, and the general conduct of the Transport system upon the voyage to, and the general government of New South Wales. That this was a subject of great importance to the interests of humanity and morals, would, he concluded, be readily admitted by every one who had taken the trouble of making any inquiry respecting it; it was clearly of such a nature, that it could not be fairly said to be comprehended within the scope of the motion of which the noble lord had given notice with regard to the state of crime in prisons in the country, and it was with some surprise he had learned therefore that his motion was to be opposed on the ground of the subject of it being comprehended in that noble lord's notice. Through the industry of a committee of that House only could accurate information be obtained on subjects of this nature, and the best way of getting at that information was, by the evidence of eye-witnesses. This indeed was pretty clear from the nature of the answers laid before the House with regard to the state of the prisons of Scotland. Those answers were from magistrates, to whom certain questions had been transmitted from the Secretary of state's office. But how different were the answers of those magistrates from the report of an eye-witness, Mr. Gurney, who had personally visited and examined the
[478l.d.s.477[476475l.[474l.473[472471d.d.d.s.s.s.[470l.l.l.l.l.l.469[468467s.l.l.s.l.l.s.l.l.s.l.l.s.l.l.d.s,l.l.l.[466465Mr. Bennet
 replied, that the right hon. gentleman had a right to entertain what opinions he chose, and so had he (Mr. Bennet) and to express them in whatever manner he pleased, as long as he adhered to the settled rules of the House.Mr. Bennet
509 made a short reply, and particularly to what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman opposite. He was very ready to admit that he was at all times willing to listen, perhaps with too much credulity, to the statements of misery and wretchedness which almost daily presented themselves to his view; that he might sometimes be biassed by representations which might not in the same degree influence a jury; but he thanked God, that he had not, as that right hon. member had done, made a subject of merriment of the miseries of these unhappy beings, that he had not trifled with their feelings. The right hon. gentleman might, indeed, amuse the House, but he might be assured that the public would listen to such indecencies only with feelings of disgust and abhorrence. There was one remark in the right hon. gentle-
509Mr. Bennet
[492491[490489 said, that in his opinion his hon. friend had misstated the argument of his noble friend. His hon. friend had ascribed to his noble friend the desire of crushing all inquiry, than which nothing was further from the tenor of his speech. He thought the course proposed by the hon. mover was not the best. His noble friend had connected this measure of inquiry with others of the same class to which it seemed to him peculiarly to belong. The inquiry instituted by government into the state of the colony, had been long in contemplation, and had been delayed only in consequence of the difficulty of finding an individual qualified for the undertaking.
[492491[490489Mr. Goulburn
 said, that he had found the subject so large and so complicated, that his own experience and knowledge were in comparison extremely limited and insufficient. He was convinced, however, that if all these subjects were considered together, if the prisons, the penitentiaries, the transportation of convicts, the state of the colony of New South Wales, and the criminal law involving the whole question of the penal code, were all submitted to one committee it would be utterly impossible for that committee to make a report in any thing like reasonable time. The most expedient way of coming to a sound conclusion was, to form a solid and expansive base upon which a building might be erected, gradually advancing, like a pyramid, to a point; but the noble lord seemed entirely to have reversed the matter; he had begun at the wrong end, and had taken a point for his base.Mr. Fowell Buxton
[488487[486485 admitted that his noble friend had, in the latter part of his speech, spoken in favour of a certain mode of inquiry; but he was of opinion, that if any one had left the House after his noble friend had gone through one half of his speech, he would have supposed he was hostile to any inquiry. The noble lord had told them that a committee of the House had inquired into the subject in 1812. That committee had recommended the adoption of some measures with respect to that colony. Was it not then in the present state of that settlement, desirable to inquire whether the recommendations of the committee had been attended to? He had hoped the question would have been met in a different way; he had hoped that something would have been told them of the means which had been taken to improve the morals of the convicts, but in the whole of his noble friend's speech he had heard nothing of any attempt of this kind. Was not the reformation of the convicts one of the special objects of that colony? Should there not then be some system of police particularly adapted to this purpose? Why else were the convicts debarred from the advantages of the British constitution,
[488487[486485Mr. Wilberforce
 expressed his disappointment at the manner in which the motion had been met by his noble friend. The speech of his noble friend had consisted of two parts; in the latter part of it he had recommended inquiry, in the former, he had seemed to argue that inquiry was of no use. Now he had, from some experience of the world, learned to listen with some distrust, and to accede with some hesitation, to the reasoning of any one who, after urging that no inquiry at all was necessary, turned upon you to recommend one particular mode of inquiry, as much better suited to the purpose than that which you had proposed to him.Mr. Wilberforce
 begged to be allowed to explain. He had never said, or meant to say, that New South Wales was in a condition to receive the benefits of the British constitution. The right hon. gentleman had directed his attacks only against the outworks, without daring to march boldly forward against the real substance of the question. He had never expressed any wish so absurd, as that the terrors of the law should be diminished: on the contrary, he was anxious that where necessary they should be augmented; but he should ever oppose that severity of the penal statutes which tended to deprive the laws of their efficacy. The right hon. gentleman had also misstated the contents of the petition of the Quakers, who did not pray that the punishment of death should be wholly abolished; but they expressed a hope that the frequency of an infliction so repugnant to the principles of Christianity would be diminished.Sir James Mackintosh
497[496495[494** observed, that it was unnecessary and would be inexcusable for him long to trouble the house, after the brilliant, beautiful, and unanswerable speech of the hon. member for Bramber, especially as it related to that part of the subject which most materially concerned him (sir J. Mackintosh), the criminal law. His hon. friend had been misunderstood. He had not said that the noble lord wished to stifle inquiry. He knew good manners and parliamentary usage too well to say so. What his hon. friend had said was, that the plan proposed by the noble lord
497[496495[494**Sir J. Mackintosh
493 said, that in rising to offer a few observations to the house on the subject now before them, he should in the first place trouble them with reading extracts from some letters which he then held in his hand, in order to prove that the treatment and situation of the convicts were very different from what had been represented on the other side. The hon. baronet then read a letter from certain convicts, after their arrival in New South Wales, to the captain of the transport, in which they thanked him for the many comforts they had received during the passage. He then read a letter to governor Macquarrie from other convicts, in which they stated that they had received the most humane treatment; and that great attention had been paid to them by the medical officers on board. He proceeded to read a letter which he had received from sir John Gore, the admiral on the
493Sir T. B. Martin
[518 rose to state what he deemed a sufficient reason to call for the repeal or amendment of the existing law. By this law it was held out that creditors should have a claim upon any
[518Mr. Alderman Wood
521 wished for the indulgence of the House while he offered a very few words in favour of the unfortunate debtor. Notwithstanding all the bitter invectives which had been dealt out against this description of men, he should think it his duty to support the measure whenever it came before the House. The pressure of the times had rendered such a bill requisite and salutary, and if the united wisdom of parliament had sanctioned it, all the clamours which were industriously excited against it would not avail. It was a bill of relief from the implacable avarice and unrelenting rapacity of some creditors, who would never be contented but by the total ruin of their unfortunate victim. He approved, as much as any man, of the efforts of honest industry; but if a person, from the spirit of adventure and laudable ambition, became unfortunate, was it fair that he should be stigmatised and driven as an outcast from society? The bill afforded that commendable relief which with some gentlemen constituted this topic of reproach. The worthy alderman, in order to render the measure unpopular, had repeated his favourite remark, that between eight and nine millions of property had been sacrificed by the operations of the bill, without producing one farthing of dividend in the pound. With all due deference to the worthy alderman's ideas of the morality of trade, he was convinced the public had derived great good from its operations, even admitting the truth of the Worthy alderman's calculation. It had been the means of relieving many very honest, although unfortunate individuals, and had restored them to society. But he would ask the hon. alderman, if he believed that more of the property alluded to would have been recovered, had the present bill never been passed? The grand morality of trade, according to the hon. member's doctrine, was ready money and no credit. Although he had found it incumbent upon him to say thus much in favour of the unfortunate debtor, he was, however, by no means friendly to the dishonest adventurer. The present law Was in fact, very much misunderstood, especially through the clamour excited against it,
521Mr. R. Gordon
 rose, pursuant to notice, to move, "That a Committee be appointed to take into consideration the act passed in the last session, for the regulation of Grand Juries in Ireland, and the state of the present law regulating the office of constable in Ireland, and to report their observations thereupon to the House." As he understood that no opposition was to be offered to his motion, he should trouble the House with but few observations. He should go into the committee with every disposition to preserve the principle of the act, and was only desirous of amending its details as much as might be done. He wished the power of grand juries, with respect to appointing eight constables for each barony were altered, that number being too large for some, and insufficient for others.Mr. Dawson
 said, that one of the most glaring defects of the grand jury system was, the inequality of the surveys, and thought that if the inquiry did not comprehend that topic, it would be inadequate.Sir J. Newport
 would not give any opposition to the appointment of the committee, after the explanation the hon. member had made of his object, and that he was desirous of preserving the essential principle of the last act. Of the value of that principle, little doubt could exist. Few could question the utility of a rigorous investigation of all applications to a grand jury for grants of money, and the examination of them by the magistrates at quarter sessions, where the parties were on oath. He was willing, however, to join in any effort for amending the minor provisions, as the principle was to be adhered to.Sir H. Parnell
 could not see that any necessity existed for the introduction of such a measure as that just proposed by the right hon. baronet. Defects, no doubt existed in the bill of the last session; but they were defects only existing in the machinery, and not in the principle. The next assizes, he thought, was likely to afford a fair opportunity for the trial of its merits and defects; but, certainly, one-half the jobs that had hitherto existed in Ireland, arose in consequence of the want of some bill containing a principle which would imperatively require that all public disbursements of county money should be publicly accounted for in open court. Such a principle was to be found in the bill of the last session; and, with all its other defects, he could not but think it superior to any previously existing law for the regulation of grand juries. The hon. gentleman in conclusion stated that he should oppose the intended measure of the vice treasurer of Ireland.Mr. Becker
525[524l. commenced by stating his acquiescence in the appointment of a committee. The principle of the bill of last session, he understood, they did not mean to touch: and he was only therefore sorry at what had fallen from the right hon. baronet below him. If any hostility were intended against the principle of that bill, he should oppose the appointment of a committee, because, except for the purpose of improving its details and rendering its machinery more practically operative, he saw no other necessity for the appointment. His right hon. friend below him had, more elaborately than usual, related to the House, the ruin and destruction that would inevitably fall in Ireland, if any delay took place in empowering grand juries to levy money in their old and usual way. But such a picture he could not help thinking overcharged. He had also told them, that the act of last session was never put into operation, and yet he complained of its defects before-it had been tried. That defects existed in it was not denied; but why not allow some time for a rational trial of those defects? The public roads in Ireland were repaired at so enormous an expense, in some places as 100525[524l.Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald
 explained. In the session before last, when this measure was proposed by his right hon. friend, he had given it all the opposition in his power. When it had been brought forward again last session, he certainly did go into the select committee; but as he had attended the committee for only an hour and a half, he did not think himself responsible for the act of last year.Sir George Hill
[526 did not intend to offer any opposition to the motion. His sentiments accorded with those of the right hon. gentleman who had spoken last. He wished the House to recollect, that the committee had considered only the general principles of the law; but there were
[526Mr. Abercromby
527 said, he was anxious to go into a committee. He did not oppose the principle of the bill; he only wished to get rid of its defects. He did not wish to see any public works presented for before a strict investigation was had into the absolute necessity of such works. His right hon. friend had said, that he had received many letters from Ireland, stating the great public benefits that resulted from the bill. He, too, had received letters from that country, and these letters stated the direct contrary. It appeared to him that the people of Ireland had much reason to complain of the measure. What was their situation since the bill had passed into a law? When that bill was passing through the House, their hopes were raised—they heard of the many advantages it would give to the country; but he was sorry to say that those hopes were blasted, and that instead of deriving advantages from the bill, they found it a lame and inefficient measure. It was introduced into the House avowedly for the purpose of remedying the deficiencies of the grand jury laws: it was intended to purify the administration of those laws, and was cried up as a measure, of such vast importance, that the Speaker at the bar of the House of Lords had eulogized it as a measure highly beneficial to the country. Now, he would ask, what were the advantages that were felt from the operation of the law—how did it work with the country? The first proceeding of the succeeding session was a motion for its suspension. He would say, notwithstanding the many severe observations that had been made, that the old system had been one under which the country had derived many and great advantages. On a former occasion,
527Lord Jocelyn
[528 said, that he did not find that there was any opposition to the appointment of a committee. In that committee, he hoped to see the principle of the bill strictly preserved; for he would not hesitate to express his decided conviction, that if the principle of the law were abandoned, it would work irreparable injury to Ireland. He had heard the system which this bill had subverted praised in the House; but he did not hesitate to say, that that system was pregnant with much mischief, and that it operated to the injury of Ireland. He thought it was rather hard, before the measure had had a fair trial, to suggest difficulties that had not occurred, and to anticipate effects that had not followed it. It had, indeed, been stated, that some difficulties had occurred in some counties. In answer to this, he could assert, that in many other counties no difficulties whatever lay in the way of the bill, and that it operated beneficially for the public interests. The House should bear in mind, that the bill was introduced on no ordinary grounds: it had been recommended by the necessity of the case: the plan was submitted to the consideration of a committee of the House, and no committee that had ever sat upon a public question had bestowed more pains or more attention or were more anxious to come to a fair, practical, and wise decision. The measure proposed by the right hon. baronet was a temporary bill, to suspend the operation of the present act. It was not difficult for the House to see the mischief that such a measure would create. In the first place, those who had placed faith upon the security of the law, would now be obliged to turn back to the old odious system. He could not contemplate such a measure without alarm, and he was not a little surprised to see that the ministers of the crown had given no opinion whatever; the more particularly as it must be fresh in the minds of many
[528Sir John Newport
[534533l.[532531[530529 said, that although the notice which he had given comprehended the arrangements which had lately been entered into with respect to the Slave trade, as well as to the Claims of British Subjects on the French government, the motion with which he should conclude related only to one branch of the papers on the table. As he thought he had collected from gentlemen opposite, that they were not ready to enter into the discussion of the other branch of the motion of which he gave notice, and as he was always happy to oblige the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Tierney) whenever he could with convenience to the public service, he should not now say one word on any subject but that of the British claims, unless he was called on by the House. If any information should be wished for by any hon. member respecting any of the measures connected with the papers on the table, he should be happy to give it to him. He intended now merely to ask for leave to bring in a bill, with a view to carry into complete execution the engagements entered into with the French government for the indemnification of British subjects having claims on that government.—The noble lord then proceeded to state the circumstances which led to the recent convention with France with respect to those claims. In 1815, the French government undertook to liquidate the claims of British subjects on them, at a time when there was not so great a charge on the funds of that
[534533l.[532531[530529Lord Castlereagh
 gave credit to the noble lord for his exertions in bringing this business to so satisfactory a conclusion. Nobody could have conducted himself with more zeal and ability than the noble lord had done. It was owing to the judicious mode adopted of settling these claims, that each individual interested, instead of having to deal with the French government, had to apply to British authority. With regard to any interest he (Mr. T.) had in this transaction, he was perfectly satisfied; but there was a certain class of claimants who did not stand in the same favourable situation, and whose case therefore, he wished to be considered. He alluded to those who had not given in notice of their claims in time to be examined, and who were, therefore, precluded from the benefits of the convention. If he were asked, whether he thought that these individuals had a legal title to redress, he would say no: but he would recommend their case to a favourable consideration, provided any surplus remained after defraying liquidated claims. He knew one case of this description which involved great hardship. A claim had been ordered by a creditor of this country to be made within the specified time, but, through gross neglect or forgetfulness, the agent had not presented it. It would be cruel, therefore, that this individual should suffer the loss of a just right, from the carelessness of another in advancing his demand. He begged, therefore, to know if the noble lord would allow the application of any surplus for the relief of cases like this. There was another subject connected with the conventions on the table, on which he wished to put a question. By these conventions we had instalments of contributions for five years, while our troops had only continued in France three; and he wished to know how the sum thus placed in the hands of government was disposed of.Mr. Ticrney
[536535 said, he went along with the right hon. gentleman in thinking, that if there should be any surplus, those claimants to whom he had alluded should
[536535Lord Castlereagh
 said, he understood perfectly well the explanation of the noble lord. Of the sums to be paid to this country by France, and now in the course of payment, two millions were to be applied, not to the purposes of this country, but to build for tificationsintheNetherlands. So that when France granted what was called an indemnity to this country, it was in effect an indemnity to Holland. He thanked the noble lord for being thus explicit; he did not wish to prolong the conversation, but it would be for him to consider whether he should submit any proposition to the House on the subject.Mr. Tierney
 expressed his surprise at the shortness of the right hon. gentleman's memory, as this was by no means the first time that the convention between the Netherlands and this country had been brought under the view of the House. If the right hon. gentleman would turn to the treaties laid before the House in 1815, he would find the convention with the Netherlands, which he had alluded to; and he would find also that the sum was not paid to the Netherlands without an equivalent, as very considerable colonial cessions had been made to us by that kingdom. The government of the Netherlands had also engaged to expend a sum equal to that which we had ceded, in strengthening the fortresses of its frontier. It had then also been explained, that the contribution paid by France, would defray not only this charge, but also the additional expenses of the army of occupation, which arose from this circumstance, that the sums allowed for the maintenance of the army of occupation, was calculated on the standard of the expense of a German army. The expense of a British army being much greater, the sum allowed for the maintenance of it became deficient, and that deficiency was to be supplied out of the contribution. The right hon. gentleman at the time had contended, that the occupation of France, even taking into account the contribution, would be a loss to this country; and now after three years he complained that the indemnity was not a source of gain.Lord Castlereagh
537 said, he had formerly contended, that if the occupation of France had continued daring the five years, the
537Mr. Tierney
 re-asserted, that the payment to be made to the Netherlands was distinctly pointed out in the treaty which had been three years ago approved of by parliament.Lord Castlereagk
 called the attention of the noble lord to the case of those individuals whose claims, by the treachery or neglect of their French agents, had not been sent in to the commissioners at Paris. He trusted they would not be precluded from obtaining justice.Mr. Philips
 said, that great credit was due to those who had displayed so much skill and industry in obtaining justice for the claimants on the French government. He agreed in the principle which had been laid down by the noble lord, that the House should be anxious not to form a precedent which might induce persons to vest money in foreign funds, in the hope, that in the event of war, their claims would be protected by this country. But there was another set of claims to which the same general principle was not applicable. He meant those of a commercial nature. The two cases were entirely different—in the one, the individuals vesting their money in the foreign funds, were engaged in transactions which were solely advantageous to themselves; in the other, the individuals, while consulting their own interest, were pursuing what was acknowledged to be the general interest of the community. He thought it also an unquestionable duty of the government to protect the interest of any individuals, or body of individuals, who had sacrificed themselves in its defence. In this situation the American loyalists stood, who, he had always been of opinion, should not be neglected.Mr. W. Smith
[538 said, he had been applied to by several of those commercial claimants who had been alluded to, and whose interests he thought had not been so well protected by the treaty as those of the tundholders, who were less entitled to
[538Mr. Huskisson
539 stated that cases of hardship such as had been described by the right hon. gentleman had also come to his knowledge. In instances in which the property of British merchants had been given in to the French government
539Sir J. Newport
l. hoped the money which was to be received from France would be not only fairly, but economically applied. He said this, because, in the case of the claims on America, the money received was allowed to lie for a long time idle in the Bank. He wished to know also how the commissioners were to be paid. The commissioners on the American claims received a salary of 1,50l.Sir T. Baring
[540said, that the sum was now in French rentes, the interest of which was accumulating, and care would be taken, as any portion was transferred to this country, that it should be vested in securities bearing interest. As to the commissioners, they would be paid out of the fund itself, as the claimants had readily consented to set apart one or two per cent to defray the expenses of the commission. With respect to the case mentioned by his right hon. friend, he had to observe, that the distribution of the money paid under the convention, was to be decided by the terms of that convention; the proper course for parliament to pursue was, to constitute a judicature, to which the business might be committed. The parliament itself, he thought, would act unwisely, to usurp the business of adjudication, as there were no places less fit for the decision on particular claims than the Houses of Parliament. That duty, he had no doubt, would be well performed by the commission, which it was to be observed, though well provided with legal ability, had never acted in difficult cases, without the advice of the law officers of the Crown. As to the cases of the commercial claimants, he allowed there was a difficulty, and it was one in which the public, as well as the claimants were interested. Not only had we claims on the French, but French subjects had claims on this country. During the war
[540Lord Castlereagh
 explained, that the case he had alluded to was that of British subjects resident in France.Sir J. Newport
541 observed, that when the noble lord had laid the late treaties on the table, he had stated, that it was not his intention to bring them under the special consideration of the House; but that he was ready to afford every information respecting them. He should avail himself of this offer to put a short question, not with the design of renewing discussions as to a retrospective course of policy from which it was known he had always so strongly dissented, but with the object of removing the apprehensions which existed in this country, that notwithstanding we had withdrawn our army from the continent, we retained a political connexion of an unconstitutional nature; and of proving to the world that we were no longer disposed to invade those rights in others, which in our own case we should defend against all the world. In the declaration of the five Powers, dated Aix-la Chapelle, 15 Nov. 1818, were these words—" The object of this union is as simple as it is great and salutary. It does not tend to any new political combinations, to any change in the relations sanctioned by existing treaties. Calm and consistent in its proceedings, it has no other object than the maintenance of peace. "If the period had ended here, it would have been intelligible; but it went on to say—" And the guarantee of those transactions on which
541Sir Robert Wilson
 replied, that the transactions were simply those treaties which had been approved and ratified by parliament—there were no others.Lord Castlereagh
[542 had no objection to the motion, and admitted the importance of the subject. He also admitted that the delay which had taken place was sufficient to excite a presumption of negligence on the part of government. But the House must be aware that there were many difficulties to impede the execution of conventions of this kind. Hitherto, no instructions had been issued under these conventions to our cruisers to capture ships engaged in the Slave trade, and the reason was, that there was no tribunal before which such prizes could be brought, and it would be contrary to the laws of nations to make such captures before a tribunal was appointed. The first object therefore was, to constitute the tribunal by appointing the commissioners, for already there was a very considerable squadron fitted out and ready to sail for the coast of Africa, for the purpose of putting down the Slave trade under
[542Lord Castlereagh
 said, that the utmost diligence had been employed; but the fact was, that no civilian could be found, who would accept the office. Application had then been made to several common lawyers, but none could be induced to undertake these duties. At last, it had been deemed expedient to nominate some attornies, who, though generally speaking not endowed with all the knowledge which persons of higher rank in the profession had, were yet, upon examination by sir W. Scott, deemed competent to execute the office of commissioners in this case.Sir C. Robinson
l.l.l.;l. did not think that any extraordinary exertions had been made to fill up the appointments. If the civil law bar furnished no candidates for these offices, at least there might have been many found among the junior members of the common law. Of the Sierra Leone appointment he knew nothing personally, but he could say positively of his own knowledge that many civilians would have gladly accepted the Brazil's commission; one he knew who was perfectly qualified by a sixteen years standing in the profession, and who had not been able to succeed in his application for it. Nor was there any objection to the Havannah station except the smallness of the salary which was 1,500l.l.l.;l.Dr. Phillimore
, in explanation, said he had given the fullest instructions before he went abroad, and as soon as the act was in force; but he really had not thought of having commissioners, ready cut and dry, before the act was passed.Lord Castlereagh
543 trusted that the most vigorous efforts would be made by ministers
543Mr. Ellice
 did not mean to impute delay to the noble lord opposite; but he could not help thinking, that less alacrity was shown in filling up those situations, than there would hate been had they been in their-nature more desirable. He could not, however, resist the temptation he felt to remind the House, that the delay of every day and every hour, was a source of dreadful misery to thousands of our fellow creatures.MR. Wliberforce
l.l. remarked, that the circumstance of an offer of 1,500l.l.Captain Grant
 assured the hon. member that he had not used the expression with the intention of conveying reproach to the members of his majesty's government.Mr. Wilberforce
[544 did not despair of seeing, in a very few years, a total extinction of this odious traffic. When he considered how many years had been necessary, even in this enlightened country, to make the parliament ripe for the abolition, and that even at last, in 1807, after twenty years of discussion, it required all the efforts of almost every member in that House, who had any title to the character of an orator, or a statesman, to carry the act through the legislature, he could not be surprised that other countries, with less information, on the subject, should not do in a few months what it has cost England so many years to do. He was pleased, however, to see that the sovereigns of Russia, Austria, and Prussia, entertained the most enlightened. views on this matter, because in governments like theirs, much depended on the will of the sovereign. He trusted too, that the prejudices which, according to the memorial of the duke of Richelieu, still existed in France on this
[544Mr. W. Smith
l.l. observed, that the course of the discussion made it evident, that the chief, if not the only difficulty in filling up the appointments arose from the insalubrity, or rather pestilential mortality of the climate of Sierra Leone. Havannah was only slightly objected to, on account of the salary; the Brazils was said to be anxiously sought after; but Sierra Leone with its superior inducement of 3,000l.l.Mr. Marryat
545 observed, that when the treaty referred to was made, it was impossible to carry it, into effect until it was ratified by parliament. After the ratification of it by parliament, there was considerable, difficulty to obtain persons properly qualified; and if it was at any time important to carry the law, into proper effect, it was peculiarly so at the out-
545The Attorney General
 could not agree in thinking that the government had not the power of entering into a consideration of the proper persons to act as commissioners before the treaty was ratified by parliament. The House had been told of the difficulty which occasioned the delay in appointing a commissioner for Sierre Leone; but the delay in appointing one for the Brazils had not been accounted for. He should feel satisfied if the effect of the motion would be to expedite the appointments even now.Mr. Wynn
 informed, the hon. gentleman that the motion would not produce such an effect, because the business was already in progress, and every possible means had been taken to forward it.Lord Castlereagh
517 thought the House must feel itself bound to take up this subject from the strong and universal objection prevailing, especially among the trading community, against the law alluded to by the petitioners. Even the smaller tradesmen, who were themselves liable to be under the necessity of an appeal to this law, expressed their objection to its principle, while the generality of those, who had taken the benefit of it, were found actually to laugh at a law, which, instead of obliging them to make any appeal to the mercy of their creditors, enabled them to set those creditors at defiance. This law had, in fact, the effect of encouraging debtors to embark in desperate enterprizes; for instead of proposing any composition, or giving up their property to their creditors, when they were on the point of insolvency, as was the case in many instances prior to the enactment of this law, debtors now too generally determined to take another plunge, consoling themselves with the idea, that whatever the event, they could "take the benefit of the act," as the phrase was. There was, he understood, some feeling of reverence for this law, in consequence of the support, which it received from sir Samuel Romilly, who was deservedly the
517Mr. Protheroe
519 animadverted upon the manner in which a grave question of great importance was thus forced into discussion. There was, indeed, every reason to complain of the mode in which this subject was treated by those who concurred with the present petitioners. Their cry was for a total repeal of the existing law, without proposing any substitute whatever—without even suggesting any remedy for that which was the oldest evil in the former law of the country. That the old law was an evil not only inconsistent with justice, but revolting to humanity, was, indeed, testified by every respectable commentator upon our law, as well as by every politician, philanthropist and philosopher who had written or spoken upon the subject. It was in consequence of this general and just impression that a learned lord, who had been lord chancellor of Ireland, and who held the highest rank in his profession, proposed the enactment of the present law. That this law had produced great good could not be consistently denied; but yet, that no defects belonged to it he was not prepared to assert. But it was remarkable, that upon referring the petitions presented to the House last session against this law to the consideration of a committee, the petitioners themselves were found to be ignorant of the nature and character of the law of which they so clamorously complained, and possibly such would appear to be pretty much the case upon any inquiry that might be instituted with regard to similar petitions hereafter. He trusted, however, that the House would know how to appreciate the statements of those gentlemen who spoke of general alarm as to the existing law, without mentioning, or even hinting, what system they would prefer; for he presumed that no considerate being would recommend the revival of that unprincipled, unjust, inhuman system, which preceded the law of which those petitioners so angrily complained. In admitting the defects of the present law, the hon. and learned gentleman expressed his satisfaction to
519Mr. Abercromby
[516, in presenting a Petition which he stated to be numerously signed by the merchants, manufacturers, and traders of Bristol, against the Insolvent Debtors act, took occasion to state his objections to this law. The oppression
[516Mr. Hart Davis
 said, that he should reserve for another opportunity the full delivery of his sentiments upon this subject. He rose on this occasion to corroborate the statement of the two gentlemen who had just addressed the House, namely, that the feeling was strong and universal against the existence of the law alluded to. That feeling was indeed quite just; for it was notorious that this law gave birth to an extravagant spirit of adventure and gambling, and encouraged practices utterly inconsistent with the just principles of trade. In order that every information should be laid before the House that could serve to guide its judgment, and to meet the observation made on a former evening as to the effects of the law existing previous to the present act, he stated his intention to move, after the present motion was disposed of, for a return of the names of all persons committed for debt within the last twenty years, distinguishing those who had compromised with their creditors, and also those who had been released by the existing or any previous Insolvent act.Mr. Alderman Waithman
[520‡ denied that he had said that the facility with which debtors could obtain their release would serve to give additional facility to credit; for he knew that the very contrary must be the result—and that formed one of his strongest objections to the existing law. Every man acquainted with trade must know the value of credit. How many of the most eminent merchants were originally clerks, and how could they have raised themselves if it were not for the credit they obtained? This law was, however, not only injurious to credit, but destructive of the whole morality of trade. He vindicated the humanity of men in trade, when honest but unfortunate debtors appealed to their mercy. He disclaimed any intention to encourage improvident credit, but it was notoriously impossible to carry on trade without credit, and his main objection to this law was, that it encouraged debtors to engage in wild enterprize and improvident speculation—to go on, indeed, in spending, until no property remained to satisfy their creditors. Hence, it appeared, that debtors for seven or eight millions of money had been discharged by the insolvent court, without giving more than one farthing in the pound to their creditors. On those grounds he complained of the law under consideration, for which, however, he did not feel himself bound to propose any substitute, as the hon. and
[520‡Mr. Alderman Waithman
l opposed the bill, because it would deprive many people of employment, and throw a number of young persons on the parishes. As to the opinion of the fire-offices, he held in his hand a paper which showed that a subscription to the amount of 120lMr. Ommancy
551 remarked, that what the hon. member had said respecting the declaration of Mr. Jones, was perfectly correct. It was true that Mr. Jones gave the money for the purpose stated by the hon. gentleman, and that it had been sub-
551Mr. Wilson
 said, that the question then before the House was certainly one of the greatest interest. He was perfectly aware, that the eyes of the public were fixed upon the House, on the present occasion. He was not ashamed, however, to say, that he was not to be always bound by the popular opinion, as he anxiously wished to act on candid, liberal principles; but he must say, that on the present occasion, he should unquestionably vote against the measure proposed by ministers, and give his hearty support to the Amendment.Mr. Wilson
[600custos599custoslcustos[598597è contra[596 observed, that nothing which he had heard during the
[600custos599custoslcustos[598597è contra[596The Solicitor General
 said, that he was anxious to bring the subject under the consideration of the House with the least possible delay. His only reason for not having hitherto redeemed the pledge given for him by his right hon. friend was, that he thought it would be more satisfactory to postpone his motion until the report should be received, from the committee appointed by the act of last session. That report, he understood, was in such a state of forwardness, that its presentation might be expected either in the present week or early in the next. As soon as it was on the table, he would bring forward his proposed motion, on the merits of which the report in question would enable the House to come to a more satisfactory decision.Lord Castlereagh
 said, he should be very happy, could he comply with the hon. gentleman's wishes. To do so, however, would, in his opinion, be a great public inconvenience, as in his view of the subject the question alluded to by the hon. gentleman would be advantageously associated in discussion with that respecting-which he (lord C.) had particularly given notice of a motion.Lord Castlereagh
lll565[564custos563custoscustoscustosl[562561l[560l559[558custoscustosl557custoscustoscustosllll[556555lll[554lllll553l said, that he should state very shortly the proceedings which he should propose to the committee to adopt as the most convenient under all the circumstances of the case. He apprehended that it would be most conformable to parliamentary usage and practice, as well as most convenient to the committee, to describe in the present stage of the business the nature of the resolutions which it was his intention to propose. The effect of that would be, to create a discussion of those points respecting which a difference of opinion was entertained, before introducing any measure to the House. He should best fulfil his duty by bringing the whole subject of the report of the select committee now before the committee of the whole House. Those points of the report, which were substantive in themselves, had been embodied into distinct resolutions, which he should submit to the committee of the House, and he should afterwards bring-in a bill on those resolutions which should be approved of by the committee. He should now state the nature of the resolutions which he had it in view to propose. The first related to the Windsor Establishment general. Instead of 100,000lll565[564custos563custoscustoscustosl[562561l[560l559[558custoscustosl557custoscustoscustosllll[556555lll[554lllll553lLord Castlereagh
[586585custosll.lll.lllll[584lcustoscustoscustos583lcustoscustos[582custoscustosll581ll[580custos observed, that he felt as any man ought, the disadvantage of immediately succeeding the eminently able individual, who had just addressed the Committee. He would not follow the right hon. gentleman into all the parts of his speech, embracing as it did, observations on all the resolutions before the committee. He was anxious, however, to say a few words in reply; and he offered himself thus early to the notice of the committee, because he was conscious of his own inability to command attention, if he postponed the few observations which he had to make till its patience had been exhausted with the length of the debate. Notwithstanding the display of ingenuity made by the; right hon. gentleman, notwithstanding the closeness with which he had discussed the subject, and the great knowledge he possessed on all such questions as the present, he still retained the opinion with which he came down to the House, namely, that the privy purse could not with propriety be applied to defray the expenses of the [586585custosll.lll.lllll[584lcustoscustoscustos583lcustoscustos[582custoscustosll581ll[580custosMr. Peel
custosllll587lcustos strongly protested against the expressions used in the latter part of the noble lord's speech, respecting the "infamy" that would attach to the circumstance of paying the custosllll587lcustosMr. Bankes
l, of Galway, begged to be understood as caviling with no unintelligible proposition. What he sought, and what he was determined upon was, to give to the duke of York for the responsible duties which he undertook, not an ambiguous claim on his father's property, but a solid and substantial grant of 10,000lMr. Martin
, in explanation, said he had never disputed the controlling power of parliament; he had only argued, that the amendment would virtually repeal existing acts.The Solicitor General
 spoke at some length, but during the whole of his speech the tumult which prevailed through the House rendered it impossible to catch a word in the gallery. We understood him to contend, that since the year 1782, in every account which had been laid on their table, the House had recognized the privy purse as the private property of the king.The Attorney General
589 differed entirely from the hon. gentleman who spoke last but one. It was impossible, in considering
589Mr. Protheroe
579custoslllllllll[578llcustos regis577ll.[576‡custoscustoscustos personœcustos personœ575[574ll573lllll[572l571ll[570llll569[568l567llll[566 said, that nothing could be more perspicuous or manly than the
579custoslllllllll[578llcustos regis577ll.[576‡custoscustoscustos personœcustos personœ575[574ll573lllll[572l571ll[570llll569[568l567llll[566Mr. Tierney
 said, he had looked at the whole evidence, in order to ascertain the different opinions that existed respecting the measure. It was true, that many had given opinions such as had been mentioned by the hon. gentleman. Some persons connected with the fire-offices had given their opinions, not officially, but as individuals; and some of those who apprehended danger from the measure, had never seen the machines worked.Mr. Bennet
 said, he did not think it necessary to reply to the general arguments that had been urged against the bill, thoroughly and repeatedly as the subject had been discussed. He wished, however, to say a few words on what had just fallen from an hon. gentleman respecting the disposition of the fire offices. He had that morning read the various-depositions on the subject on oath. In them it was distinctly declared, and especially by Mr. Jones, one of the secretaries, that the money alluded to by the hon. gentleman had been subscribed, not for the purpose of getting rid of the bill, but in order to enable the matter to be investigated. As to the assertion made by the hon. gentleman of the source whence the master chimney sweepers were supplied with their apprentices, he was sure the House would agree with him, that if those unfortunate little beings were chiefly illegitimate and unprotected children, it was an additional reason for affording them legislative care.Mr. Bennet
 having moved the order of the day for the third reading of this bill,Mr. Bennet
, adverting to the notice which, at an early period of the session, the right hon. member for Liverpool had given of the intention of the noble lord opposite to propose a bill for the extension of the powers of the act of last session, for appointing commissioners to inquire into the abuses of public charities, wished to ask the noble lord if he still entertained that intention; and if so, whether he had any objection to state about what time he thought he should bring forward his motion?Mr. Brougham
 said, that nothing could be more satisfactory than the noble lord's explanation. The particular reason for his anxiety on the subject was, that his own course on the subject of the revival of the education committee would mainly depend on the course pursued by the noble lord.Mr. Brougham
, while he allowed the great talents and ingenuity of the hon. and learned gentleman who had made so able a speech on the other side of the House, contended that his argument was a complete fallacy, and that he had given the go by to the real question. It was never contended, that parliament had not a right to legislate on the privy purse, but that the interference of the House in this matter was, and always should be guarded and cautious, inasmuch as it was the property, not of the Crown, but of the king. Were they now to legislate in the manner proposed, it would be interfering with the acts which made the privy purse private property. It was a fallacy to draw any argument from the mode in which the payment of the physicians was provided for. They could not be viewed in the same light as an officer of the Crown, and he was surprised to hear the hon. and learned gentleman employing such an argument. He was as unwilling as any man could be, to add to the burthens of the country, but he felt that he should be doing an act of gross injustice were he to consent to the amendment proposed by the right hon. gentleman.Mr. Stuart Wortley
 wished to ask the noble lord, if be had any objection to postpone his motion on the State of the Prisons, until the motion of his hon. and learned friend (sir J. Mackintosh) respecting the Criminal Law, should be disposed of? He felt considerable anxiety on this subject, persuaded as he was, that on the question of gaols, there would be no difference of opinion in that House, but that there might be on the question to be agitated by his hon. and learned friend.Mr. Buxton
 said, he had no reason to suppose that the House, by neglecting their duty to the people, were at all evincing their loyalty to the venerable and afflicted monarch of the country. He lived among a class of persons who were suffering under the severest pressure of distress, and he could not therefore think, that by voting for the original motion, he would be doing his duty, as he saw no consistency in giving this grant, especially after the repeated declarations made about economy and retrenchment. He had the highest respect for the character and talents of the duke of York, and, at the same time, he felt all that attachment which a subject could feel for the venerable monarch who had so long, so ably, and so faithfully presided over the affairs of this kingdom; but he felt, at the same time, that he had an imperative duty to. perform to his constituents and the public; and it would well become the House to reflect, that they had their duty also to perform to the public, as well as their loyalty to evince to their sovereign and his illustrious son.Mr. Mansfield
ll[592** rose amidst loud calls for the question, and was for some minutes inaudible. If, he said, he had any knowledge of the feelings of the illustrious personage so often alluded to, he never could have authorized the statement they had that night heard from the noble lord, namely, that it would be derogatory to his royal highness's honour to undertake the duty of superintending the treatment of the king without his being paid for it [Question, question!].—He was extremely sorry that the House would not extend their patience for a few moments. He himself had listened with great patience to all the gentlemen, and he trusted they would hear him. He was quite sure that
ll[592**Mr. Hume
l595lcustos said, that he had come down to this debate with his mind perfectly open to conviction, and that on the subject of the right hon. gentleman's (Mr. Tierney's) amendment, he had not been pre-determined against any proof that might be offered of the power of the House of Commons legally to take the amount of the proposed grant to the l595lcustosMr. Hart Davis
l[594 rose amidst loud cries of question, and observed, that if a future occasion should present itself, it was his intention to deliver his sentiments fully on this question. That future opportunity, however, he hoped would not occur, but that the subject would be set at rest by the vote of the committee. He had only one remark to offer at present, and it was this, that he could not suppress the indignation with which he had heard
l[594Mr. Alderman Waithman
 presented a Petition from Richard Carlile, bookseller of Fleet-street, complaining that he had been vexatiously arrested and imprisoned, for selling certain publications, at the time that an indictment had also been laid against him. He prayed for relief, and the repeal of the grievous law under which he had suffered. On presenting this petition, the worthy alderman thought it necessary to state, that he knew nothing of the circumstances of the case; but the petition having been placed in his hand for the purpose of being submitted to the House, he had thought it bits duty to comply. Mr. Alderman Waithman
593 said, he felt the necessity of an adherence to economy, but still there were measures of economy which the House could not adopt, and he considered the present to be one of those. It was evidently a doubtful point whether the privy purse was not in reality the private property of the Crown; and while only a doubt rested on this point—while the balance might be described as still trembling with fate—he was sure the House would not trench on the sacred rights of sovereignty in the person of a monarch, whom all parties in that House, whatever were their differences, had so long loved and revered. Never, he was confident, would they interpose between their sovereign and a few thousands per annum. He, therefore, for one, was prepared to vote for the proposition of his noble friend. If, indeed, that sovereign were seated at this moment on his throne, exercising his functions, enjoying his ancestorial rule, and capable of calling on his people, it would remain with them,
593Lord Compton
lcustos591lcustosl[590 declared, that he had listened with the greatest attention and utmost impartiality to all that had been offered on both sides of the House, and he was persuaded that the supporters of the amendment founded their arguments on an erroneous view of the subject. Before he proceeded, he wished to advert to what had fallen from the hon. gentleman who last spoke. He had complained of a breach of privilege; but he had not supported his complaint either by argument or proof. Next, he had said that the duke of York had no friends, because the motion was persisted in. Had not the communication been made, and the claim made, his royal highness might indeed have said that he had no friends. It was his royal highness's duty as a subject and a son, not to accept the grant out of the privy purse. Admitting, for the sake of argument, that the House had overstepped the fit line of private property on previous
lcustos591lcustosl[590Mr. Huskisson
llcustos[588 considered this in no view a question of economy, but of positive law: the committee were not called upon to decide at how cheap a rate they could
llcustos[588Mr. Wilmot
605[604l.custoslllllcustos603[602l601 hoped to be indulged with the attention of the House while he made a few observations. He did not feel that the argument of his hon. and learned friend, who had just sat down, though it appeared to have convinced himself, and though it had received so much applause from those about him, had added one tittle to the strength of the case, as explained in the speech of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Peel) who had preceded him. His hon. and learned friend had done little more than give that speech in another form, and he believed, therefore, he should best discharge his duty, by following the argument of the right hon. gentleman, point by point, and though he could not promise to furnish ornament for ornament, he would endeavour to give him reason for reason. Great stress was laid, in the first place, on the principle of Mr. Burke's act: now in his opinion, that act led to a directly opposite conclusion to the one put upon it; for it made it incumbent on the Crown to submit to parliament an estimate of the privy purse,
605[604l.custoslllllcustos603[602l601Mr. Scarlett
[550quietus549‡ said, it had long been a matter of very doubtful curiosity, whether a smoky chimney, or a scolding wife were the greatest evil; but on that night, perhaps, the question would be settled. Whatever the character of the hon. mover might be for philanthropy and humanity, he certainly took leave to say, that he yielded not to him a single iota in the possession of either. Out of the doors of that House, no doubt the horn gentleman's name was associated with such virtues; but however that might be, he (sir J. Yorke) felt conscious that be indulged no feeling contrary to either benevolence or humanity. If the treatment of climbing boys were of such a cruel nature as to require the interference of legislative restriction, he would by no means object to it. But to do away an ancient trade, when the want of employment had been so much complained of, did really excite in him considerable surprise. If the Solons of the times wished to prevent the necessary waste of human life, he did not know how the present legislators would be able to provide for the increased propagation of the human species, which they seemed so earnestly to recommend. It would be evidently bad to throw young boys upon the parishes, and not only thereby increase the poor-rates, but lay them open to every temptation, and promote their progress in the career of crime. If, however, machines were capable of sweeping all classes of flues, he thought they would necessarily force their way into general use, and be employed in place of boys. But he called upon the hon. mover to state, if the fact had been made out, that machinery could so operate? Several of the fire-offices were against the use of machinery; and as to the master chimney sweepers, whom he held in his hand;—[a laugh]—well, then, if the House would have it so, their opinions, were in general also decisively against it. The directors of the Bank of England had given directions to two principal inventors of machinery to try their practicability on the chimneys of the Bank; but its success was confined to a very few of them indeed. One great evil in the use of machinery was its pargetting the mortar of the flues, and thereby very often rendering it necessary to take them down—no very pleasant thing to those who were fond of domestic comforts. Gentlemen might not know what pargetting meant, but if they had to take down a whole stack of chimneys,
[550quietus549‡Sir Joseph Yorke
 said, that all that came before the House was the sum total to be voted for the establishment, and a recommendation that the number of equerries should be four. He did not think, therefore, that the number could be altered on bringing up the report.Mr. Wynn
, in presenting a petition from Nottingham, against the Corn Act, took occasion to observe, that he agreed with the petitioners, that notwithstanding the speech from the throne, assuring them that the manufactures, commerce, and trade of the country were in a flourishing state, the greatest distress existed in the manufacturing districts.Lord Rancliffe
dsldsll said, that with respect to the provision for her late majesty's servants, the committee had recommended that the annual sum of 18,245dsldsllLord Castlereagh
l609llcustos said, the next subject which he should submit to the consideration of the committee was the office of l609llcustosLord Castlereagh
 expressed his determination to oppose any grant out of the civil list to his royal highness the duke of York.Lord Rancliffe
 replied, that it was a subject into which the committee had not yet been able to inquire. He himself had been able to attend the committee but once; his presence having been necessary in an election committee. If he might be allowed to risk a conjecture on the question, he was apprehensive that, in the agricultural districts, the poor-rates had at least not diminished since last year.Mr. S. Bourne
l[610l was astonished on what possible ground the noble lord could suppose that he should obtain his support to the measure of charging the allowance to his Royal Highness on the civil list. He had endeavoured to guard against any such inference being drawn from what he said on this subject. What he did say was, that he should be happy if such a course could be adopted on this occasion, as would keep the subject out of discussion altogether. If ministers laid the charge of the allowance to his Royal Highness on the privy purse, he had stated that he would not object to it. Whatever new charge was laid on the privy purse, if no new charge was laid on the public, the House, he thought, would acquiesce in; and to this extent only, he had agreed to the charge. But of all things he was astonished that the noble lord should think of applying to him for his vote on the ground of the vote to the queen of 10,000l[610lMr. Tierney
 suggested, that the best time for moving to the effect proposed by the gallant officer, would be when the report would be brought up.Mr. Tierney
ll stated, that he should give his decided opposition to any grant out of the civil list.llMr. Curwen
611 conceived the House was now at full liberty to adopt any course which it might deem proper with respect to the allowance for the care of his majesty's person. It was not so much on account of the magnitude of the sum proposed to be granted that he should oppose it, though no grant whatever, in the present state of the country, could be viewed with indifference. But there were other grounds on which he should rest his opposition to it. When it was agreed on all hands that the country was in a state of the utmost distress,—when the table of the House was loaded with petitions from the agriculturalists and other classes, stating their distress, and praying for economy and retrenchment,—and when it was agreed on all hands that economy must commence somewhere—he thought, if his majesty's ministers had a true sense of the duties incumbent on them in such a state of things, they ought to show it by the example
611Mr. Waithman
613 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the Poor-laws. He did not anticipate any objection to the principle of the bill; but in case any should arise on the details which it would embrace, he thought it would be more convenient to allow it to be brought in and printed, and then both its principle and its details would be more intelligible. It was unnecessary for him at present to enlarge on this subject; he thought it sufficient for him to refer to the facts stated in the report of 1817. As many gentlemen who now heart him had not been members of the House at that time, he would just say what the House well knew, that the bill had failed in the last session in consequence
613Mr. Sturges Bourne
 wished to know, whether the committee appointed in the present session had yet had an opportunity of ascertaining whether there had been any increase or diminution of the poor-rates since last year?Sir. R. Wilson
[608 observed, that what he had said on a former occasion, with respect to the subject of petitions for an extension of the Corn laws, had been grossly and maliciously misrepresented. Instead of stating that which he had really said, namely, that he thought it would be advantageous were hon. gentlemen connected with agricultural districts to dissuade their constituents from such petitions, it had been imputed to him, that he had urged them to resist that right of petitioning, which he, in common with all who
[608Sir R. Wilson
ll gave notice of a motion for Thursday, that the number of equerries should be six.llSir A. Hope
lllll[612 said, that he was anxious to have the number of equerries distinctly allowed by the committee. By reducing two of them, the saving effected would be tantamount to nothing; but should his majesty recover from his indisposition, it
lllll[612Sir A. Hope
[630 said, that if the allegations of the petition were true, there had been committed one of the greatest breaches of privilege which it was possible to commit—if they were false, this was one of the foulest and most wicked conspiracies that was ever yet brought before the House. It was the duty of the House to hold the petitioner bound to prove his case at the hazard of the severest censure the House could possibly inflict on him; and it was also the duty of the House to inflict the severest censure on him, if he failed to prove his case. He did not wish to trust himself in this stage of the case with expressing any opinion on the subject. reeling himself placed in the situation of a judge, he wished to defer expressing his opinion on the case, till he knew how far that case could or could not be established. It was hardly necessary for him to mention to the House, that when a charge of this nature was met by the fullest and most ample denial, they owed it to the member against whom the charge was brought to give him an opportunity of justifying himself in the eyes of the public—and they owed it to themselves to see, that that enquiry should be conducted in the most solemn manner. He should feel it as highly desirable that this case should be heard at the bar of the House. In the last case of the same nature, namely, that of Mr. Paul against the late Mr. Sheridan, this was the course which was adopted. In the first place, if this case were referred to a committee of privileges, it would be necessary that all the other numerous committees which were sitting, should suspend their sittings, while the committee of privileges was sitting, in order to ensure a sufficient attendance of members; and that alone formed a strong ground of objection to such a course. He conceived, therefore, that the case should be heard at the bar of the House. It was befitting the character of the House, and the character of the person accused, that this charge should be met as publicly as possible. He hoped the House would investigate the subject in a most scrupulous and ample manner, and under that feeling, that they would hold the petitioner bound to prove his allegations. If these allegations were not substantiated, he ex-posed himself to the severest censure. He suggested,
[630Mr. Wynn
 observed, that it would be proper to appoint as early a day for this as would afford time to bring over the witnesses. Perhaps to-morrow fortnight might be convenient; or it might be proper to ascertain first, whether this time would allow the hon. member (Mr. W. Quin) time to bring forward his witnesses.Mr. Wynn
631primâ facie conceived himself bound in justice to the hon. member, against whom the charge was brought, to state his conviction, which be believed was shared by the House, that there never was a case which, 631primâ facieLord Castlereagh
 thought that the day proposed would be too early for bringing over the witnesses, and might be very inconvenient, particularly to Mr. Goold, who was of the king's counsel.Mr. Courtenay
 did not think that Mr. Goold was personally affected by the charge. He would only be summoned as a witness. He proposed that the day should be fixed for Monday fortnight subject to alteration.Mr. Wynn
 said, he had a few words to offer in reference to what had fallen from the noble lord and an hon. gentleman on his side of the House. He was far from wishing to weaken the impression made upon the House by the statement of the hon. member, and he only rose to say, that the letters were evidently written at a moment when the writer was in a state of great irritation, and subsequently to the decision of the hon. member. He also rose to state, that there was no gentleman at the Irish bar who bore a more respectable character than Mr. Goold. His reputation ought not to be affected by the present case. The only parties were the petitioner and the hon. member, and it was due to the petitioner, that no imputations should attach to him on account of the letters of his father.Mr. Hutchinson
 in explanation said, that he had stated it was evident that these letters were written to extort from the hon. member a certain office. He apprehended this was a most important circumstance. The office at the time was not legally granted to another person, and the object of the father was, to extort it for his son. The inference he thought pointed very strongly to a conspiracy against the hon. member.Lord Castlereagh
 wished to know if the hon. member had any proposition to submit for bringing over the witnesses earlier.Mr. Wynn
 believed that an earlier day Would be more convenient. He suggested, therefore the appointment of on day se'nnight,Mr. Courtenay
 said, that he was sure Mr. Goold would make any sacrifice to support the hon. member.Mr. Butler
 again proposed that the day should be to-morrow se'nnight;Lord Castlercagh
633 conceived that his attendance ought to be ordered, and it would be for the House to exercise their discretion how far he was bound to answer the questions put to him. He regretted that Mr. Quin had not returned to the House as he wished to obtain the name of the writer of the letters, that he might be ordered to attend. Indeed he was
633Mr. Wynn
instanter. said, he understood that the writer of the letters was now within the reach of the House, and a summons ought therefore to be served on him instanter.Mr. S. Bourne
 thought it was the duty of the House to call on the writer of the letters as an offender himself.Mr. Courtenay
 thought it might be advisable that the writer of the letters should be ordered to attend at an earlier period.Mr. Wynn
[638The precedents on this point are numerous upon the Journals, I have extracted a few: in 1702 the House addressed the crown to remove the bishop of Worcester from his office of lord almoner for corrupt interference in an election, and he was removed. In the same year, and for the same offence, the mayor of Winchelsea was taken into custody, and by address was removed from the office of surveyor of customs. In 1705, William Bursted, for the same offence, was taken into custody, and by address removed from the office of receiver, of customs. In 1741 the sheriff of Devon was, for the same offence, taken into custody, and by address removed from the office of receiver general of that county. In 1747 William Phelan was, for the same offence, taken into custody, and by address re-
[638Now those reasons by which Ferguson was saved from an address to remove him from his office are conclusive against the present delinquent; because, first, his guilt will be proved in due course of law, and not extracted from his own; confession; second, because he is the very thing that the House expected to punish in the case of Ferguson, and were disappointed in not finding, namely, an exalted delinquent; third, because he has made his office the source of his corruptions, and notoriously instrumental to the breach of their privileges.But the majority of the House, including many of the opposition, were of opinion, that it would be inexpedient to carry the punishment further against such a wretch as Ferguson; and this their opinion they founded upon the three following just and equitable reasons: 1st, Because Ferguson's guilt was not proved by a third person, but unconstitutionally extorted from his own confession, upon his examination before the committee; 2nd, Because to carry the punishment any further against such a wretch as Ferguson, would be beneath the dignity of the House, whose more rigorous chastisement should be reserved for more exalted delinquents; and 3rd, Because it did not appear that Ferguson had rendered his office instrumental to the breach of their privileges.Commons Journals, May 18th, 1818. "Mr. Wynn this day moved the House, That an humble address he presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, praying that he would remove Thomas Ferguson from his office of surveyor of customs in the county of Lanark, as he had been found guilty of an act to subvert the freedom of election, and had been declared guilty by that House of a breach of its high privileges.THOMAS GRADY.How the present House will vindicate itself, whether by expressions, or address to the Prince Regent to remove the cust. rot. from his office, I shall not presume to suggest; but I pledge myself to have the charge brought before it with effect, and irresistibly proved.637But the guilt of poor Ferguson was venial, compared to the enormity of the present transaction: Ferguson was not a principal; Ferguson was not an educated man; Ferguson was not a member of that august House whose privileges he thus invaded; Ferguson was not the son of a peer, nor the hereditary pillar of that state whose foundation he thus undermined; Ferguson was not the first judicial magistrate in his own county, nor an office broker in his own county court. Ferguson did certainly invade the freedom of election, and violate the high privileges of the House of Commons, but he neither made his office auxiliary to that purpose, nor subverted the administration of justice. In short, third is no analogy in the extent of crime, and there can be none in the extent of punishment.In the very last session (this very cust rot. then sitting in the House) lord Archibald Hamilton preferred a complaint for breach of privilege against Thomas Ferguson, an exciseman of Lanarkshire, who had offered a place to an elector of that county on conditions of his voting for, and supporting the interest of lord Douglas; the whole House took it up; the minister, ashamed of the charge, avowedly refused to meet it; they ordered the delinquent to their bar; he. was forced to confess his own guilt, but denied all privity or participation with lord Douglas; they committed him first to the custody of the serjeant at arms, and afterwards to New gate. And if the House had not thus asserted its privileges, it would have been no longer a House of Commons.[636Gracious God! when or where will the system end? Government gives him patron age in consideration of the corrupt support he gives them he sells that patronage (involv-
[636quid pro quo;"On the 21st of September last, he made a proposal to this effect to the professional person above mentioned, in behalf of that gentleman's client, who has upwards of one hundred registered freeholders on his estate in that country; the professional gentleman, shocked Sit a proposal which imported the breaking up an office ministerial to justice, and selling a lot of it to the amount of two hundred pounds a year, for the votes and constitutional privileges of a hundred freemen, objected to the. conditions thus annexed to the grant; to which the cust. rot. replied, "that it was the only patronage he had in right of his office, and that he could not part with any portion of that patronage without a quid pro quo;"The office of clerk of the peace, in his nomination (an office material and ministerial to justice; in Ireland peculiarly so, where it involves the administration, not only of criminal, but of civil justice), he has broken up and sold, and offered to sale, in fractions, bargaining with every lot of office for a certain number freeholders, and this he has done with so little decency or discretion, that a written article for that purpose is at this moment in the bands of a professional gentleman of the highest integrity, ready to be exhibited in parliament, and proved against him, upon any order of the Commons to that effect.635To furnish the friends of their country in parliament with the means of commencing the sessions by such an exhibition, I shall here state some facts, and afterwards supply proof of the facts I so state—I will state the case of a representative in parliament for a southern county in Ireland, who became a member of the Commons in 1806, who attached himself with more than common diligence to the opposition until the year 1815, but who then finding that free but barren field no longer worth the cultivating, indented himself to the proprietors of a richer, ranker, and more productive soil; who, during the intervening space of three years, has gleaned from that soil, though indeed his hands have been sullied by the baseness of his drudgery, a viscounty for his father, the promise of an earldom, the patronage of his county, and the office of cust. rot., to which, pursuant to the tenor of his indentures, he has been lately appointed by the present lord lieutenant of Ireland; the patronage of which judicial office, namely, the clerkship of the peace,
635——and here, sir, give me leave to add, that besides assailing the hydra of corruption in the aggregate, he should be attacked in detail, by bringing into public contempt individual instances of public men, who have been not only notoriously corrupt in parliament, but who, by means of the patronage they obtain from the minister, in consideration of their corrupt support, carry the system into their respective counties, debauching and demoralizing the whole mass of society in their districts; it is true the minister may throw the shield of his majorities over them, one after another, but then the individuals will be exposed and detected, until by frequent examples of the sort, every moral and reflecting man in the community shall raise his voice and demand a reform.To—— &c. &c. &c.Copy Letter.THOMAS GRADY.[634Sir;—As I have received no answer to my letter, delivered to you by Mr. C. Smyth, I presume you don't mean to answer it, but even that shall not divert me from the course I wean to take in the business; underneath you have the copy of a letter written by me to a leading member of opposition, with whom I have been the last week in London, who furnished me with extracts and precedents from the Commons Journals, for the purpose, and to whose advice I have committed myself; I
[634th Oct.Boulogne Sur Mer,th Oct.Boulogne Sur Mer, said, that the hon. member for the county of Limerick had stated to the House the substantive fact of having received letters from Thomas Grady threatening him with a parliamentary inquiry, if he did not bestow a certain office on his son. He submitted, that this was a substantive breach of the privileges of the House. He now tendered to the House the letters containing the subject of this charge against Grady, and when the House were in possession of the letters of Grady, he should then move that he be summoned forthwith to attend at the bar of the House to explain the said letter.[638The precedents on this point are numerous upon the Journals, I have extracted a few: in 1702 the House addressed the crown to remove the bishop of Worcester from his office of lord almoner for corrupt interference in an election, and he was removed. In the same year, and for the same offence, the mayor of Winchelsea was taken into custody, and by address was removed from the office of surveyor of customs. In 1705, William Bursted, for the same offence, was taken into custody, and by address removed from the office of receiver, of customs. In 1741 the sheriff of Devon was, for the same offence, taken into custody, and by address removed from the office of receiver general of that county. In 1747 William Phelan was, for the same offence, taken into custody, and by address re-
[638Now those reasons by which Ferguson was saved from an address to remove him from his office are conclusive against the present delinquent; because, first, his guilt will be proved in due course of law, and not extracted from his own; confession; second, because he is the very thing that the House expected to punish in the case of Ferguson, and were disappointed in not finding, namely, an exalted delinquent; third, because he has made his office the source of his corruptions, and notoriously instrumental to the breach of their privileges.But the majority of the House, including many of the opposition, were of opinion, that it would be inexpedient to carry the punishment further against such a wretch as Ferguson; and this their opinion they founded upon the three following just and equitable reasons: 1st, Because Ferguson's guilt was not proved by a third person, but unconstitutionally extorted from his own confession, upon his examination before the committee; 2nd, Because to carry the punishment any further against such a wretch as Ferguson, would be beneath the dignity of the House, whose more rigorous chastisement should be reserved for more exalted delinquents; and 3rd, Because it did not appear that Ferguson had rendered his office instrumental to the breach of their privileges.Commons Journals, May 18th, 1818. "Mr. Wynn this day moved the House, That an humble address he presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, praying that he would remove Thomas Ferguson from his office of surveyor of customs in the county of Lanark, as he had been found guilty of an act to subvert the freedom of election, and had been declared guilty by that House of a breach of its high privileges.THOMAS GRADY.How the present House will vindicate itself, whether by expressions, or address to the Prince Regent to remove the cust. rot. from his office, I shall not presume to suggest; but I pledge myself to have the charge brought before it with effect, and irresistibly proved.637But the guilt of poor Ferguson was venial, compared to the enormity of the present transaction: Ferguson was not a principal; Ferguson was not an educated man; Ferguson was not a member of that august House whose privileges he thus invaded; Ferguson was not the son of a peer, nor the hereditary pillar of that state whose foundation he thus undermined; Ferguson was not the first judicial magistrate in his own county, nor an office broker in his own county court. Ferguson did certainly invade the freedom of election, and violate the high privileges of the House of Commons, but he neither made his office auxiliary to that purpose, nor subverted the administration of justice. In short, third is no analogy in the extent of crime, and there can be none in the extent of punishment.In the very last session (this very cust rot. then sitting in the House) lord Archibald Hamilton preferred a complaint for breach of privilege against Thomas Ferguson, an exciseman of Lanarkshire, who had offered a place to an elector of that county on conditions of his voting for, and supporting the interest of lord Douglas; the whole House took it up; the minister, ashamed of the charge, avowedly refused to meet it; they ordered the delinquent to their bar; he. was forced to confess his own guilt, but denied all privity or participation with lord Douglas; they committed him first to the custody of the serjeant at arms, and afterwards to New gate. And if the House had not thus asserted its privileges, it would have been no longer a House of Commons.[636Gracious God! when or where will the system end? Government gives him patron age in consideration of the corrupt support he gives them he sells that patronage (involv-
[636quid pro quo;"On the 21st of September last, he made a proposal to this effect to the professional person above mentioned, in behalf of that gentleman's client, who has upwards of one hundred registered freeholders on his estate in that country; the professional gentleman, shocked Sit a proposal which imported the breaking up an office ministerial to justice, and selling a lot of it to the amount of two hundred pounds a year, for the votes and constitutional privileges of a hundred freemen, objected to the. conditions thus annexed to the grant; to which the cust. rot. replied, "that it was the only patronage he had in right of his office, and that he could not part with any portion of that patronage without a quid pro quo;"The office of clerk of the peace, in his nomination (an office material and ministerial to justice; in Ireland peculiarly so, where it involves the administration, not only of criminal, but of civil justice), he has broken up and sold, and offered to sale, in fractions, bargaining with every lot of office for a certain number freeholders, and this he has done with so little decency or discretion, that a written article for that purpose is at this moment in the bands of a professional gentleman of the highest integrity, ready to be exhibited in parliament, and proved against him, upon any order of the Commons to that effect.635To furnish the friends of their country in parliament with the means of commencing the sessions by such an exhibition, I shall here state some facts, and afterwards supply proof of the facts I so state—I will state the case of a representative in parliament for a southern county in Ireland, who became a member of the Commons in 1806, who attached himself with more than common diligence to the opposition until the year 1815, but who then finding that free but barren field no longer worth the cultivating, indented himself to the proprietors of a richer, ranker, and more productive soil; who, during the intervening space of three years, has gleaned from that soil, though indeed his hands have been sullied by the baseness of his drudgery, a viscounty for his father, the promise of an earldom, the patronage of his county, and the office of cust. rot., to which, pursuant to the tenor of his indentures, he has been lately appointed by the present lord lieutenant of Ireland; the patronage of which judicial office, namely, the clerkship of the peace,
635——and here, sir, give me leave to add, that besides assailing the hydra of corruption in the aggregate, he should be attacked in detail, by bringing into public contempt individual instances of public men, who have been not only notoriously corrupt in parliament, but who, by means of the patronage they obtain from the minister, in consideration of their corrupt support, carry the system into their respective counties, debauching and demoralizing the whole mass of society in their districts; it is true the minister may throw the shield of his majorities over them, one after another, but then the individuals will be exposed and detected, until by frequent examples of the sort, every moral and reflecting man in the community shall raise his voice and demand a reform.To—— &c. &c. &c.Copy Letter.THOMAS GRADY.[634Sir;—As I have received no answer to my letter, delivered to you by Mr. C. Smyth, I presume you don't mean to answer it, but even that shall not divert me from the course I wean to take in the business; underneath you have the copy of a letter written by me to a leading member of opposition, with whom I have been the last week in London, who furnished me with extracts and precedents from the Commons Journals, for the purpose, and to whose advice I have committed myself; I
[634th Oct.Boulogne Sur Mer,th Oct.Boulogne Sur Mer,Mr. Courtenay
instanter said, that his wish now was, as he understood the writer was within reach, that he should be called instanterMr. Courtenay
 said, his intention had been merely to examine Mr. Grady whether he acknowledged having written the letter, before the House pledged itself to an opinion as to its contents. However, as the Speaker had given a different opinion as to the proper course of proceeding, he should withdraw his motion, for the purpose of substituting another.Mr. Courtenay
custos rotulorum;custos rotulorum? believed that every member would agree with him in thinking, that what had fallen from the hon. member for Limerick was of the last importance for its consideration. He could not understand, from what had fallen from the right hon. baronet, whether or no he meant to dispute that this paper, which was enclosed in an envelop, and folded in the usual form, could be considered as a letter. But was it possible to doubt either the nature or the object of that fetter, addressed as it was to the county member and custos rotulorum;custos rotulorum?Mr. Bathurst
[640 understood the right hon. baronet to entertain in his own mind, a doubt as to the destination of the letter.
[640Mr. Bathurst
Non constat considered this letter, of itself, but particularly as connected with the circumstances before the House, to contain sufficient evidence of its destination. It was laid on the table by an hon. member, and declared to have been delivered to him. It was, he thought, a threatening letter, intended to influence his conduct as a member. The first, step, to be taken, therefore, was, to ascertain, its precise character. Non constatLord Castlereagh
 thought the chain of evidence in this case was clear and connected; and he viewed it, more particularly after what had fallen from the hon. gentleman opposite, as a high breach of the privileges of that House [cries of Move, move!] It was evidently a threatening letter and he therefore should move "That the writing and sending of the said letter to the hon. Windham Quin, a member of the House is a high breach of the privileges of this House."Mr. Wynn
 being called to the bar, and the letter being shown to him he was asked, "If the said letter was in his hand writing!" to which he replied, "that his eye-sight had been very defective for the last fifteen years, and that by candle-light he could not form an opinion whether the said letter was or was not in his hand-writing; and he could not say whether he wrote the letter or not".Mr. Thomas Grady
 then observed, that as the witness had professed that he was unable to read by candle-light, the House would perhaps indulge him by having the letter read to him. It appeared that he had heard the letter read before, but of this the House could take no notice.Mr. Bankes
[642said, that the point was, to identify whether that letter
[642Mr. Martin of Galway,
 being again called in, the House directed the letter should be read to him; and the said letter was read accordingly. And Mr. Grady being asked, "whether he recollected writing such letter?" he replied, "that when he read the letter containing the proposal of Mr. Wyndham Quin to his son, he was much agitated, and conceived it to be in the highest degree corrupt; that under this impression, he wrote twenty or thirty, or perhaps forty sheets on the subject; not one of which he published. He wrote something as long as the letter, and of that nature, but cannot say he wrote that." And being then asked, "whether he sent the letter, or any of those sheets, to Mr. Wyndham Quin?" he replied, "that he did not recollect any thing of that sort in the shape of a letter; what he wrote did not go out of his own bureau; he wrote much of that character, but speculative rather than as a letter; he did not send the letter to Mr. Wyndham Quin; he wrote under agitation, in the nature of essays, not any letters." And then he was directed to withdrawn.Mr. Grady
 said, that as the case now stood, Mr. Grady denied, in effect, any acquaintance with the letter before the House. He had admitted that he had written much of a speculative nature on that subject; he had not denied, absolutely the character of the writing, but he had declared his inability to read it by candle-light. It appeared to the noble lord, therefore, that the proper course would be, as this was a case of breach of privilege to detain Mr. Grady in custody till he could read by a more favourable light than the House at present afforded.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that no jury in England could hesitate to find a man guilty, of sending a libel upon such evidence; the testimony of Thomas Grady was of no consequence, for a more shameless prevarication had never been witnessed. He was glad that it would not be necessary on a future day that be should be called before the House, it would be impossible to rely upon one Syllable he uttered.Mr. Courtenay
 observed, that if any gentleman entertained, a doubt that the first letter was sent, it would be as well to as certain whether the second fetter was received to which the first alluded.Mr. Wynn
 remarked, that although it appeared that the letter complained of was the writing of Mr. Grady there was no proof that was sent or caused to be sent by him to Mr. Quin.Mr. Alderman Wood
 observed, that if a letter proved to have been written by any individual, was received by the individual to whom it was addressed, it was in law concluded that such letter was sent by the writer, and in this instance it was proved that not only the letter itself, but the envelope was the hand-writing of Thomas Grady.Mr. Bathurst
 observed, that as it was desirable to furnish the House and the country with every possible information with respect to the case of Mr. Quin, in order to form a correct judgment upon the subject, he felt it his duty to move that the letter of Mr. Grady, together with every other document or statement laid before the House respecting the transaction, should be printed.Mr. Alderman Wood
645 did not see the necessity of adopting this motion, as the letter and statements alluded to would appear in the minutes which were printed for the inform-
645Mr. Wynn
 repeated his opinion, that the proposition which he had submitted ought to be adopted.Mr. Alderman Wood
 then moved a resolution, that Thomas Grady, by writing and sending the letter in question, had been guilty of a high breach of the privileges of the House.Mr. Wynn
 said, he had not joined in the vote of commitment. He thought the proceeding unusual if not extraordinary and severe: at least the House had proceeded with some precipitation, and it might have been better, perhaps, for the dignity of its own proceedings, if it had restrained itself from sending an unfortunate individual to prison, until the impression produced by the statement of the boa; member had in some degree subsided. He was very anxious that the country should not lose any part of the evidence given at the bar, and tending to justify the commitment.Mr. Hutchinson
 added, that he had not joined in the vote, because he really was not fully possessed of the facts, act having entered the House until late.Mr. Alderman Wood
 did not perceive that the question, if he rightly understood it, really depended upon the evidence of Mr. Goold. Mr. Goold was also engaged in extensive business, and could not attend there without much inconvenience to himself and to others. He knew nothing of that gentleman; but he could not see why he should on this occasion be called away from his business. The member who had spoken last; had said, that Mr. Goold would make any sacrifices; but why should he make any sacrifices?Mr. Tierney
 said, that until he had heard the statement read by the right hon. baronet, he did not know how far Mr. Goold was implicated. He considered the situation of that gentleman one of peculiar delicacy; he had acted in this instance as a professional man, as the counsellor and adviser of Mr. Quin. In that capacity he was charged by the petitioner with an act which certainly would amount to a breach of the privileges of the House; and, indeed, the charge does not stop here—it went further, and amounted to what would appear an act of bribery. In that case, he thought the House might compel the attendance of Mr. Goold to answer the petition.Mr. Brougham
[644 wished to state the grounds on which he should vote in the affirmative. It was true, the witness had said that he had never written such a letter to Mr. Quin, although he had written some matter in the form of essays upon the subject; and it also appeared from his testimony, that he had never sent such a letter to the hon. member. On the other side, it was stated by the hon. gentleman, who was not to be looked at all as a party to this proceeding, that it was the hand-writing of Mr. Grady, and that he had known it for 15 years; the cover enclosing it was in the same hand-writing, and it had been sent to him by the post. Upon the whole, therefore, he thought that there was no reasonable doubt about the matter, and that the case was as clearly made out as was necessary; the inevitable presumption was, that Mr. Grady had sent the letter, although he had not made any. such acknowledgment. He said that Mr. Quin was no party to this question, because the letter before the. House had nothing to do with the truth or falsehood of the main charge contained in the petition. The story was certainly most improbable, and it had received the, most direct and ample contradiction; but still it might be all well found and still the same reason would exist for proceeding now against Mr. Grady. Two
[644Mr. Brougham
643 begged to remind the House, that they were not obliged to look to the answers of Mr. Grady alone for evidence, provided they could elicit it from other sources.643Mr. Brougham
gravamen641 said, that as all such questions were of paramount delicacy, it appeared peculiarly necessary that no misstatement should go forth as to the grounds on which the House came to a decision—and his reason for particularly wishing those grounds to be clearly and particularly stated was, because he did not find any threat held put against the hon. member in his present capacity. There was still, in his opinion one of the gros-
gravamen641Mr. Brougham
 concurred in this opinion, feeling it to be just and necessary, that upon a question, in which the character and liberty of a fellow-subject, as well as the privileges of that House were concerned, the fullest and most accurate information should be adduced.Mr. Moore
629 thought, that as a charge injurious to the character of the hon. member had: been brought against him, he ought to have an opportunity of clearing away the imputation; and he therefore conceived that an inquiry into the circumstances of the case should be ordered. He did not wish to enter into the subject—he could not do better than imitate die example of his hon. friend, who had said fee did not wish to weaken
629Mr. Peter Moore
 stated to the House that he had just seen Mr. Quin; that he was anxious to have Mr. Goold as a witness, and that he released him from any professional obligation to secrecy.Mr. Holmes
 rose and spoke to the following effect:Mr. Wyndham Quin
 trusted, that the House would do justice to his motives in having brought this subject to their notice. It was the farthest from his wish, and most, foreign to his intentions, to adopt any course which should be the means of that House, visiting any individual with censure or with punishment; all that he, wished was to perform that duty which he considered to be incumbent upon him.Mr. Quin
 observed, that the letter alluded to would appear in the votes, which were printed for the information of the members, but he felt it right to apprize the House, that as there was no short-hand writer present at the time the prisoner was examined at the bar, the substance of his answers only, as they were taken by the clerk, would appear in the votes, and not the questions and answers, as they were put in the regular way.The Speaker
 suggested that the resolution ought to be divided into two parts; first a resolution that Thomas Grady did write and send the letter; and next, that by writing and sending it, he had been guilty of a high breach of the privileges of the House.The Speaker
[628627[626625[624l.l.623[622; —Long as I have had the honour of a seat in this House, I have very seldom offered myself to your notice; and of this I am sure, that I have never done so without experiencing much pain and embarrassment. But, Sir, I should not tell the truth were I not now to say,
[628627[626625[624l.l.623[622Mr. Speaker
 said that some care should be taken in the manner of proceeding. The letter having been delivered in by a member, and he having stated that he had received it, the next step before the supposed writer was called to the bar, was, that the House should, decide on the character of that letter, namely, whether it was or was not a breach of its privileges.The Speaker
 observed, that on account of the circuits the witnesses ought to be summoned either for an early day or for a day after the 59th of March, when they would be over.Sir N Colthurst
 said, he would withdraw his motion, and second the one moved by Mr. Wynn.—This being agreed to,Sir Robert Wilson
 said, that before the hon. member left the House, he begged to assure him, that he knew nothing of the petitioner, and had never heard of the petition till one week before his presenting it. He conceived, that, in justice to himself, he was bound to state this, lest it might be supposed that any of the letters alluded to in those which had been read by the hon. member were addressed to himself. With respect to the hon. member, it was not his duty, and it certainly was not his inclination, to endeavour now to weaken the impression which he had produced on the House He had net sufficient parliamentary experience to guide him in the course of proceeding which it would now be proper to adopt; and therefore he wished to have the sense of the House on the subject. Willing to yield to the suggestions of members of more experience than himself, and to adopt whatever course was most agreeable to the House, he should in the meantime move, that the petition be referred to a committee of privileges.Sir R. Wilson
"Your petitioner therefore humbly prays, That such order shall be made for inquiring into the allegations of this his humble petition, as to the wisdom and dignity of the House shall seem expedient; and your petitioner pledges himself to prove the truth of every fact here alleged, under the peril of incurring the severest censure of this honourable House; and your petitioner humbly observes, that this his petition is not intended to bear, and cannot bear upon the merits of the last election for said county, which took place in June last, whereas all the facts here alleged were committed at a subsequent period, and in contemplation of such future election or elections, as might thereafter take place for the said county of Limerick. And your petitioner, as in duty bound, will ever pray, &c. THOS. WILLM. GRADY.""Yet the said Ferguson was not a member of that House, whose high privileges he invaded, nor the son of a peer, and hereditary pillar of that state whose best foundations he undermined, neither was he the first judicial magistrate in his county, nor an office broker in his own county court; and though he did invade the freedom of election, and the privileges of that House, he neither subverted the administration of justice, nor rendered his office instrumental to his guilt:"Your petitioner humbly begs leave to refer to the 1st William and Mary, c. 21, sect. 8, by which statute, the said offences so committed by the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, and Thomas Goold, are declared to be corrupt and criminal; and your petitioner most humbly begs leave to refer to the case of reach of privilege acted upon in the last session by the late House of Commons; there it appeared that Thomas Ferguson, an exciseman of Lanarkshire, offered a place to an elector of that county upon the same conditions as in the present instance (that is to say), on conditions that he would vote for and support the interest of a certain noble lord; and there, that House asserted its high privileges, by chastising the said Ferguson:l.621"But your petitioner; being advised that it would be improper to meddle with the perquisites of an office, ministerial to justice, in
l.621'W. W QUIZ.'"'Mr. Grady may vote as he pleases; if 'he chooses to vote against me, Twill not on 'that account deprive him of his situation."That the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, being apparently alarmed at the aforesaid suggestions, wrote the following note to the said Daniel Gabbett, in order to its being shown by him to your petitioner; viz.l."That Daniel Gabbett of the city of Limerick, esq., law agent to the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, being apprized of such your petitioner's intentions, thought it his duty to expostulate with the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, upon the nature of the proposal he had so made to your petitioner, and cautioning him of the danger he thereby incurred, recommended him to endeavour to rescue himself from the consequences, by offering to your petitioner the said 200l."Your petitioner shows, that the said proposal having been communicated to him at the instance of the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, he instantly rejected the same with indignation, and feeling himself bound by every constitutional principle to assert the freedom of election, which had been thus invaded, the high privileges of the representatives of the people, which had been thus trampled upon, and the pure administration of justice in his county, which had been thus tampered with, resolved to submit the whole transaction against the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, and the said Thomas Goold, to the august and elevated jurisdiction of this honourable House:"Your petition humbly shows, that the said written instrument is now in the hands of the said Carew Smyth, subject to such order for production as this honourable House shall think proper to make:l.l.l."'That the said Richard Smith was to be appointed clerk of the peace, upon an express understanding between him and the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, that the said Thomas William Grady was to receive 200l.l.l.[620l."That accordingly, on the next day, the 22nd of September, the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, attended by Thomas Goold, of the city of Dublin, esq., one of his majesty's counsel (the confidential lawyer of him the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin) came to the house of the said Carew Smyth, when the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin with his own hand delivered to the said Carew Smyth the said instrument in writing, revised and corrected, approved of, and testified by the said Thomas Goold, as the basis of that contract which; he the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin sought, establish; and comprising all the terms, conditions, and stipulations hereinbefore recited; for transferring 200200[620l."That the said Carew Smyth, to avoid all misrepresentation, suggested the necesssity of a written instrument from the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, importing the precise tenor of the contract which he the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin had thus solicited, to which the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin assented; and the said Carew Smyth having reduced the tenor thereof to the form of a minute, or written instrument, delivered the same to the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin to deliberate upon, and after mature consideration, to declare whether it fully and fairly comprised his intentions:quid pro quo:"That the said Carew Smyth, in behalf of your petitioner, objected to the said proposal as reprehensible; whereupon the said Wyndnam Wyndham Quin replied, that nothing could be more equitable, inasmuch as to obtain your petitioner's compliance with those terms, he the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin consented to part with a valuable portion of his patronage, and that he was determined to part, with no portion thereof without obtaining a quid pro quo:l.l."For this purpose, on the 21st of September last, the said Wyndharn Wyndham Quin (in person), proposed to Carew Smyth, of the city of Dublin, esq., barrister at law (your petitioner's law adviser) in behalf of your petitioner, to grant to your petitioner 200l.l.619"That your petitioner and his tenantry, consisting of about one hundred registered freeholders, had hitherto supported the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin upon all his contests for the county; but the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, finding his situation as can-
619"That having superseded the former clerk of the peace, he appointed a person of the name of Richard Smith during pleasure to that office (the said Richard Smith having a number of freeholders at his disposal), and this appointment was made under an express stipulation with the said Richard Smith, that he the said Richard Smith should pay out of the perquisites of the said office such annuity or annuities as he the said Wyndham Wyndnam. Quin should think proper to appoint, and in default of the punctual payments of such annuities, that he the said Richard Smith was to be removed from his office; upon which terms it was accepted of by the said Richard Smith:"That the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, perceiving at the last general election that his popularity had considerably decreased, found it necessary to avail himself, for election purposes, of the patronage he so obtained from government, and broke up the emoluments of the said office of clerk of the peace into lots, in order to distribute the several lots among such persons commanding an influence in the county as he knew, or presumed would, undertake, in consideration thereof, to support him on any future contest, appointing them only during pleasure, in order to maintain his control over them for those purposes:"That the office of clerk of the peace in Ireland is more important, as more extensively ministerial to justice than in England, because in Ireland it is ministerial as well to the civil as to the criminal justice of the county:"That in Ireland, the office of clerk of the peace is not as in England held during good behaviour, but is at the arbitrary disposal of the custos rotulorum:"Sheweth, That the honourable Wyndham Wyndham Quin, representative in parliament for the county of Limerick (for which county he stood on three contested elections) was, in the month of July last, appointed custos rotulorum thereof, by the present lord lieutenant of Ireland, by virtue of which appointment he became entitled to appoint the clerk of the peace for said county:"To the Right Hon. and Honourable the Knights, Citizens, and Burgesses of Great Britain and Ireland, in the present Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of Thomas William Grady, esq. of Belmont, in the County of Limerick, and in that part of the United Kingdom called Ireland.[618617l.l.l.[616quid pro quo.l.615l.l.[614 rose, and spoke to following effect:—"Your petitioner therefore humbly prays, That such order shall be made for inquiring into the allegations of this his humble petition, as to the wisdom and dignity of the House shall seem expedient; and your petitioner pledges himself to prove the truth of every fact here alleged, under the peril of incurring the severest censure of this honourable House; and your petitioner humbly observes, that this his petition is not intended to bear, and cannot bear upon the merits of the last election for said county, which took place in June last, whereas all the facts here alleged were committed at a subsequent period, and in contemplation of such future election or elections, as might thereafter take place for the said county of Limerick. And your petitioner, as in duty bound, will ever pray, &c. THOS. WILLM. GRADY.""Yet the said Ferguson was not a member of that House, whose high privileges he invaded, nor the son of a peer, and hereditary pillar of that state whose best foundations he undermined, neither was he the first judicial magistrate in his county, nor an office broker in his own county court; and though he did invade the freedom of election, and the privileges of that House, he neither subverted the administration of justice, nor rendered his office instrumental to his guilt:"Your petitioner humbly begs leave to refer to the 1st William and Mary, c. 21, sect. 8, by which statute, the said offences so committed by the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, and Thomas Goold, are declared to be corrupt and criminal; and your petitioner most humbly begs leave to refer to the case of reach of privilege acted upon in the last session by the late House of Commons; there it appeared that Thomas Ferguson, an exciseman of Lanarkshire, offered a place to an elector of that county upon the same conditions as in the present instance (that is to say), on conditions that he would vote for and support the interest of a certain noble lord; and there, that House asserted its high privileges, by chastising the said Ferguson:l.621"But your petitioner; being advised that it would be improper to meddle with the perquisites of an office, ministerial to justice, in
l.621'W. W QUIZ.'"'Mr. Grady may vote as he pleases; if 'he chooses to vote against me, Twill not on 'that account deprive him of his situation."That the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, being apparently alarmed at the aforesaid suggestions, wrote the following note to the said Daniel Gabbett, in order to its being shown by him to your petitioner; viz.l."That Daniel Gabbett of the city of Limerick, esq., law agent to the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, being apprized of such your petitioner's intentions, thought it his duty to expostulate with the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, upon the nature of the proposal he had so made to your petitioner, and cautioning him of the danger he thereby incurred, recommended him to endeavour to rescue himself from the consequences, by offering to your petitioner the said 200l."Your petitioner shows, that the said proposal having been communicated to him at the instance of the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, he instantly rejected the same with indignation, and feeling himself bound by every constitutional principle to assert the freedom of election, which had been thus invaded, the high privileges of the representatives of the people, which had been thus trampled upon, and the pure administration of justice in his county, which had been thus tampered with, resolved to submit the whole transaction against the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, and the said Thomas Goold, to the august and elevated jurisdiction of this honourable House:"Your petition humbly shows, that the said written instrument is now in the hands of the said Carew Smyth, subject to such order for production as this honourable House shall think proper to make:l.l.l."'That the said Richard Smith was to be appointed clerk of the peace, upon an express understanding between him and the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, that the said Thomas William Grady was to receive 200l.l.l.[620l."That accordingly, on the next day, the 22nd of September, the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, attended by Thomas Goold, of the city of Dublin, esq., one of his majesty's counsel (the confidential lawyer of him the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin) came to the house of the said Carew Smyth, when the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin with his own hand delivered to the said Carew Smyth the said instrument in writing, revised and corrected, approved of, and testified by the said Thomas Goold, as the basis of that contract which; he the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin sought, establish; and comprising all the terms, conditions, and stipulations hereinbefore recited; for transferring 200200[620l."That the said Carew Smyth, to avoid all misrepresentation, suggested the necesssity of a written instrument from the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, importing the precise tenor of the contract which he the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin had thus solicited, to which the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin assented; and the said Carew Smyth having reduced the tenor thereof to the form of a minute, or written instrument, delivered the same to the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin to deliberate upon, and after mature consideration, to declare whether it fully and fairly comprised his intentions:quid pro quo:"That the said Carew Smyth, in behalf of your petitioner, objected to the said proposal as reprehensible; whereupon the said Wyndnam Wyndham Quin replied, that nothing could be more equitable, inasmuch as to obtain your petitioner's compliance with those terms, he the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin consented to part with a valuable portion of his patronage, and that he was determined to part, with no portion thereof without obtaining a quid pro quo:l.l."For this purpose, on the 21st of September last, the said Wyndharn Wyndham Quin (in person), proposed to Carew Smyth, of the city of Dublin, esq., barrister at law (your petitioner's law adviser) in behalf of your petitioner, to grant to your petitioner 200l.l.619"That your petitioner and his tenantry, consisting of about one hundred registered freeholders, had hitherto supported the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin upon all his contests for the county; but the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, finding his situation as can-
619"That having superseded the former clerk of the peace, he appointed a person of the name of Richard Smith during pleasure to that office (the said Richard Smith having a number of freeholders at his disposal), and this appointment was made under an express stipulation with the said Richard Smith, that he the said Richard Smith should pay out of the perquisites of the said office such annuity or annuities as he the said Wyndham Wyndnam. Quin should think proper to appoint, and in default of the punctual payments of such annuities, that he the said Richard Smith was to be removed from his office; upon which terms it was accepted of by the said Richard Smith:"That the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, perceiving at the last general election that his popularity had considerably decreased, found it necessary to avail himself, for election purposes, of the patronage he so obtained from government, and broke up the emoluments of the said office of clerk of the peace into lots, in order to distribute the several lots among such persons commanding an influence in the county as he knew, or presumed would, undertake, in consideration thereof, to support him on any future contest, appointing them only during pleasure, in order to maintain his control over them for those purposes:"That the office of clerk of the peace in Ireland is more important, as more extensively ministerial to justice than in England, because in Ireland it is ministerial as well to the civil as to the criminal justice of the county:"That in Ireland, the office of clerk of the peace is not as in England held during good behaviour, but is at the arbitrary disposal of the custos rotulorum:"Sheweth, That the honourable Wyndham Wyndham Quin, representative in parliament for the county of Limerick (for which county he stood on three contested elections) was, in the month of July last, appointed custos rotulorum thereof, by the present lord lieutenant of Ireland, by virtue of which appointment he became entitled to appoint the clerk of the peace for said county:"To the Right Hon. and Honourable the Knights, Citizens, and Burgesses of Great Britain and Ireland, in the present Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of Thomas William Grady, esq. of Belmont, in the County of Limerick, and in that part of the United Kingdom called Ireland.[618617l.l.l.[616quid pro quo.l.615l.l.[614Sir Robert Wilson
 thought, that unless Mr. Goold explained what he knew justice could not be done to the hon. member.Sir J. Newport
[632 stated, that the circuits in Ireland would all commence between the 8th and 10th March, and it would be more convenient to Mr. Goold
[632Sir John Newport
 said, he had never thrown out a doubt that the letter Was intented for the hon. gentleman. It was in the light of a letter that he wished the House to consider the paper; but all he had said was, that it was not, in point of fare, property addressed to any one. He again expressed his hope, that the House would, not proceed hastily before it proceeded further in the business.Sir John Newport
639 observed, that as the letter in question was without address, before the House proceeded to act on it, it was necessary not only that they should, see the propriety of the course, but that they should be able to record their reasons. The first step therefore was, in some manner to verify the fact that the letter was addressed to the member in question: they had then to declare whether the letter in question was a breach of privilege. He hoped the House would not come to a decision rashly; for though, after what they had heard, the impressions
639Sir J. Newport
 read from the petition the several parts of the transaction at which Mr. Goold had been present and assisting, in order to show the importance of his evidence.Sir John Newport
657 presented a Petition from certain occupiers of land in the county of Devon, in favour of some further legal protection against the Importation of Foreign Corn. He begged to state, how ever, that so far from concurring with the
657Lord Ebrington
 presented a similar petition from the owners and occupiers of land in the neighbourhood of Lynn, in the county of Norfolk. The hon. gentleman said, that the petition proceeded from a respectable body of yeomen, with whom he was sorry he could not on this occasion agree. In his opinion, the present price of corn was fully sufficient to remunerate the farmer. In one respect, however, he thought the agricultural interest might be essentially relieved, and that was by a repeal of the duties on farmers horses, duties which were very severe and oppressive. Although he could not concur in the sentiments of the petition, he was firmly convinced of the expediency of giving every proper encouragement to the farmer, and in no view more distinctly than in order to afford employment for the poor. To encourage industry was one of the best ways of emending the poor-laws. In his own district, a poor-house had some years ago been erected under Mr. Gilbert's act; but the poor having since been wholly employed, the poor-house had been pulled down.Mr. Coke
[658 said, he was intrusted with the presentation of three petitions from Essex, similar to those which had just been submitted to the House. They were signed by about 1,200 of his constituents, owners and occupiers of land. He begged, leave to observe, that amongst these were many of the great landholders of the county. They stated, and it could not be doubted, that they suffered much from, the existing system. He trusted that., their complaints would be immediately referred to a committee, and that that committee would proceed to examine the subject without passion or prejudice, In Essex, the farmers, did not find it worth their while to proceed with spirit in cultivating the soil: the consequence was, that many labourers were thrown out of employment; and he believed the same observation applied to many other counties. The progress of agriculture was evidently not, so great as it was a few years ago; a circumstance that could only be accounted for by the want of due encouragement. In the years 1811, 12, and, 13, the number of enclosure bills which passed that House, was 385; while,
[658Mr. Western
 said, he would take this, the first opportunity, of protesting against these petitions. He thought it most extraordinary, that the farmers and land owners should, the very first moment they felt the pressure of a temporary distress, petition for additional duties. They had had many years of prosperity, and he was astonished to see them now coming forward with petitions, the object of which was, to raise the price of bread on the poorer classes of the community. Lord Rancliffe
 observed, that he thought it his duty to present a similar petition, signed by many respectable persons in Montgomeryshire. With all his respect, however, for them, he could not support their present application.Mr. Wynn
[660 said, he held in his hand a petition of similar import, from certain yeomen and farmers in the county of Middlesex. He entirely agreed with them in the opinion, that the soil of the country was capable of producing sufficient corn
[660Mr. Byng
 observed, that the hon. member for the county of Limerick, had, both on the last and on the present evening made so favourable an impression on the House, that it was a matter of great delicacy to venture any observations on the subject. He trusted that the hon. gentleman who had hitherto conducted himself in so handsome a manner on this occasion, would eventually acquit himself from all imputation discreditable either to himself or his family. He must say, however, that he thought the course pursued by the House towards the petitioner extremely severe. It did not appear to him that the letter in question, even if the production of the petitioner, contained an offence against the privileges of the House of Commons. The petitioner's conduct had been most proper and respectful: sitting below the bar, observing the course the discussion was taking, and hearing the vote for committing him to Newgate, he still patiently waited the execution of the orders of the House, it was his intention, therefore, unless the gallant general should do so, to take an early day of calling the attention of the House to a motion for the petitioner's discharge. He should be very sorry to do any thing that might appear in the slightest degree to reflect on the hon. gentleman, or that might imply any insinuation against him, and therefore he could assure the House that in the step which he was about to take his only motive was to protect an unoffending individual. He gave notice that he would to-morrow make the motion to which he had just adverted.Mr. Hutchinson
l moved the order of the day, for receiving the report on the Royal Establishments at Windsor. The report was brought up, read, and the first and second resolutions agreed to. On the third resolution being read, viz. "That the annual sum of 10,000lLord Castlereagh
l677, as he had been very pointedly alluded to by the hon. and learned member who had just sat down, begged to be indulged with a very few words, in notice of the hon. and learned gentleman's extemporaneous effusion. The hon. and learned member, however, must recollect that it was not every one who had the advantage of three days to make a reply. The hon. and learned gentleman quarrelled with his reference to the acts of parliament on this subject, and had talked of his making a sort of sentimental journey through the statute book. Now, he could only say, that if it was to be called a journey, it was one which he had made in company with some of the hon. and learned member's friends, to whom he referred him as having led the way. But it seemed that even the hon. and learned member himself had not thought the journey unpleasant, as he had gone some part of the same way and treated the House with a preamble of his own.l677Mr. Peel
l[678 of Galway, said, he had but one sentence to utter in explanation; if he made it two, it would be one too much. He begged to state, that, in the committee he had not said that he would leave the vote to the decision of the rabble at Covent-garden; he stated that he would address himself to the population of England and Ireland from the hustings; he did not mean the mob—he meant the nobility, not the mobility—the nobility and gentry of the cities of London and Westminster, as a fair specimen of the rank and property of the united kingdom. He would scorn to address the rabble— the ragged rabble. If new duties were cast upon the duke of York, was it fair to expect that he should discharge them for nothing? Ought the House to permit him to discharge them for nothing? He would put a case to the hon. and learned gentleman. Suppose he were to find, on searching some musty record, that he was heir to a peerage, and wished to have his claim asserted by counsel, would not all his learned friends reply, "Oh! my dear sir, we can take no fee from you?" And would not the hon. and learned gentleman reply, "Oh! my dear sir, but you must, for I can very well afford to pay it?' He would insist upon paying all that could be expected. This was exactly similar to
l[678Mr. Martin,
lcustos;custos[668custoscustos667 entirely concurred with the hon. gentleman who had spoken last, as to the propriety of keeping out of view, in the present discussion, the duties which his royal highness the duke of York discharged with so much advantage to the country, in his capacity of commander-in-chief; but if it was proper to keep out of view the advantages which the country derived from the services of his royal highness, the House were equally bound to keep out of consideration the salaries which his royal highness received in return for those services. It was not a fit subject for their consideration in the present discussion, what were the emoluments derived by his royal highness from the country, either as a member of the royal family, or in his capacity of commander-in-chief. The question for the consideration of the House now was, if
lcustos;custos[668custoscustos667Mr. Robinson
llll681 thought he should be guilty of a gross dereliction of public duty, and a great violation of public ho-
llll681Mr. Long Wellesley
custos personœ.l[682custos persoœl said, that although he was conscious of his inability to make any material addition to the arguments which had been already adduced in support of his view of the subject, especially after the eminently able speeches of the two distinguished legal gentlemen (Messrs. Scarlett and Denman) he felt it his duty to state the grounds upon which he meant to vote on this question. He maintained, that the conclusion on the other side was incorrect, that because the gentlemen with whom he had the honour to act had, on a former night, voted that the 10,000custos personœ.l[682custos persoœlLord Ebrington
custos personœ683custos regretted that the name of the duke of York should have been brought so often before the House. The situation of custos personœ683custosMr. S. Cocks
l685custos.custos,custoscustos did not think that this was a proper time to mix up in the question the considerations of what was given to the royal Duke as commander-in-chief of the army. The word salary had now been introduced for the first time, in examining the provision which should be made for the l685custos.custos,custoscustosMr. Wynn
lllcustos, wished to impress upon the minds of gentlemen, that the royal duke, in his situation of lllcustos,Mr. Bathurst
lcustos687custoscustos,llll[686 said, that he rose with reluctance to offer opposition to any grant to any branch of the royal family, much more to the illustrious commander in chief. But that feeling would not prevent him from discharging his duty as an independent member of that House, or dissuade him from resisting, as far as his individual efforts could extend, that most unprincipled, unfeeling, audacious (he was about to use another epithet) demand upon the public purse. In opposing that attempt on the public, or rather the rapacity of those who wanted to pay court to the royal family, he felt he best evinced his respectful and loyal attachment to the Crown, for he was convinced that the attempt was made more to serve the views of the courtiers than to advance the interests of the monarchy itself. In the last session the ministers endeavoured to obtain a grant for the royal family, which the House of Commons refused. After that failure, they must be aware that if they did not succeed in the present instance, out they must go. It was most probable, therefore, that as they feared they should now walk out, they were
lcustos687custoscustos,llll[686Lord Carhampton
ll spoke at some length in favour of the grant of 10.000llMr. Fremantle
"et trunco non frondibus efficit umbram.""And knowledge at one entrance quite shut out,""——all nature left a blank,[704l703notverbatiml[702custosl701lcustoscustos,was[700at all.custosSi possis, recte; si non, quocunque modo rem.""———Rem facias rem,699custos.custos[698custoscustos,custosllll697lcustoscustos,custos,[696pro tantocustos,lcustosllllcustos.lll695lcustos[694llcustosad absurdum,693custos;l observed, that it was evident the gentlemen on the other side, were determined to think ministers in the wrong, whatever course they pursued. When in compliance with the feelings of the House and of the country, they had cut down the Windsor establishment, and had entered into minute details of expenditure, the necessity for which he cordially agreed with many hon. gentlemen in regretting, the cry on the other side was, "Why do you not propose at once a general comprehensive measure, instead of wasting the attention of parliament on such petty details?" When, in compliance with this suggestion, the ministers reserved from the detailed, communication of the committee, one great item of the proposed establishment (the 10,000"et trunco non frondibus efficit umbram.""And knowledge at one entrance quite shut out,""——all nature left a blank,[704l703notverbatiml[702custosl701lcustoscustos,was[700at all.custosSi possis, recte; si non, quocunque modo rem.""———Rem facias rem,699custos.custos[698custoscustos,custosllll697lcustoscustos,custos,[696pro tantocustos,lcustosllllcustos.lll695lcustos[694llcustosad absurdum,693custos;lMr. Canning
s.s. presented a petition from the owners and occupiers of land in the county of Berks, praying for protecting duties on the importation of grain. The petitioners, finding themselves oppressed, under the present state of the law, had deemed it proper to come forward and call for relief from parliament, and he heartily hoped their prayer would be attended to. The farmers could not, the hon. member observed, sell their corn under 80s.s.Mr. C. Dundas
custos personœll[684llllcustos, considering the distressed state of the country, could not consent to a needless and wanton expenditure of the public money. If he felt satisfied, that the office of custos personœll[684llllcustosMr. D. W. Harvey
[664 said, he possessed no information on the subject but that derived from public sources, but he confessed his surprise at the character of the petition which had been just presented. The first part of the petition appeared to him not to fall short of stating that the House had wrongfully imprisoned the petitioner. It was evident that the petitioner arraigned the conduct of the House towards him. He by no means thought that the petitioner was entitled to the peculiar indulgence of the House and feeling that it was too much for the
[664Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
 observed, that the question resolved itself into this—Whether such a grant ought to be imposed on a distressed and miserable people, and by so doing, disgrace be brought upon the character of the royal personage for whose use it was demanded?Mr. Hart
l[692llcustoslcustoscustos691custos?custos.lll[690689custos.custos. began by assuring the House that he should not detain them long, but, in the few observations which he had to make, he was anxious to set himself right with those hon. members who had appeared to think that in his speech, on a former night, he had allowed the propriety of the grant, and had merely disputed about the fund from which it ought to be taken. He had made no such admission; he had most distinctly avoided any allusion to such a topic, having then no other object than to record a principle, that the privy purse should be charged with what he could not but consider a private expense appertaining to the king. That principle having been negatived by the House, there still remained a question, whether any farther expenses than those already allowed for the Windsor establishment were necessary in consequence of the office of l[692llcustoslcustoscustos691custos?custos.lll[690689custos.custos.Mr. Tierney
 presented a similar petition from the owners and occupiers of land in the county of Salop. The hon. member said, that he had, after mature deliberation, agreed to, and supported the measure, connected with this subject, which had passed the House a few sessions ago; but he doubted very much whether any further step could be taken, without producing detriment instead of benefit.Mr. Bennet
ll707custos;custos,custos,lll[706l assured the House that he would keep a promise which was often made, especially at so late an hour, but which was not always fulfilled. He should occupy very little of their time, while he stated the reasons that induced him to oppose this resolution. Indeed, he should not have given these reasons at all, but for the speech of the right hon. gentleman who had sat down a little while ago, and the pains which he had taken to divert the House from the question before them, and to lead their attention off to any other subject but the particular one on which they were to decide. He had charged his hon. and learned friend—and this was not the first time the charge had been brought against him that night—with answering speeches that had been delivered on former occasions. But he now charged the right hon. gentleman with being himself an example of a defect which he reproved in others. The right hon. gentleman had nut only replied to a speech made on a former night, but had advanced additional arguments on a subject already discussed. His hon. and learned friend certainly had alluded to the former discussion; but in arguing on the present resolution, he had confined himself strictly to the subject of the resolution, whether the grant should be made or not; and had not entered on the consideration, whether it should be paid out of the privy purse, or out of any other fund. The right hon. gentleman had not even attempted to answer any part of that argumentative speech. He had also entirely mistaken the grounds on which his right hon. friend opposed the resolution. His right hon. friend had distinctly said, that though he himself would not quarrel with the measure, so long as the public did not pay the 10,000ll707custos;custos,custos,lll[706lMr. Brougham
ll[666ll665 said, he was in hopes, in consequence of what took place in the House when this subject was last before them, that those who were in the confidence of his royal highness the duke of York, would have brought from him a disclaimer of his wish to take any allowance from the Civil List for the care of his royal father. This disclaimer would have given satisfaction, not only within these walls, but also elsewhere. It was impossible not to regret that his Royal Highness had not come to such a conclusion. He could not but consider it a matter of deep regret that his Royal Highness had made it a matter of more difficult}' and delicacy to take any allowance from the privy purse than from the people at large. He deprecated the necessity in which the House were placed of discussing this question. It was a satisfaction, however, to think, that what-ever opinion might be entertained respecting this grant, there was but one opinion in the House, that no economy which in the least trenched on the comforts and feelings of our aged monarch was to be countenanced. But it was impossible to connect this grant with the comforts of his majesty. For it was impossible to think that his Royal Highness could be influenced in his attentions to his aged and afflicted parent, by any sum of money which it was in the power of the House to give. Every thing that kindness and attention Could possibly do for an aged monarch, the House were sure
ll[666ll665Mr. Curwen
custos. commenced a speech in support of the grant, by observing, that he would make no professions, because they were generally understood to mean nothing; but the hon. gentleman spoke in so low a tone, that we could catch only fragments of sentences. We understood him to say, that he thought the sum reasonable on account of the magnitude and importance of the duties of the custos.Mr. J. Gordon
 expressed his intention of detaining the House for a very short time. From the flourishing account of our resources which had been given by a noble lord on a former night, he might be disposed to concede the sum proposed as a remuneration to the royal duke; but since that night he had found, from authentic documents that the highly-coloured picture of the noble lord was but a daub. Since that night he had heard, from a very respectable correspondent at Liverpool, that a house at Bolton in Lancashire had failed; by which 4,000 persons were thrown out of employment. He had also heard that six houses at Manchester had failed. The hon. member, in proof of the distress of the country, next alluded to some circumstance respecting horses employed in agriculture, and concluded by saying, that under these circumstances he did not think it right to give his assent to the proposed remuneration for an office which it was the filial duty of his royal highness to. perform.Mr. Griffith
lcustos personœ.l said, that without any anxiety to catch at the favour of the populace, he felt justly solicitous to earn that favourable opinion of the public which was generally the reward of a conscientious performance of public duty. The question before the House was one on which he thought the people had come to a decision very different from what an hon. member imagined. It was not a question of the pounds, shillings, or pence in the grant, but whether the principle of economy, which the House professed, was merely to be embraced in theory, and to be rejected in every instance that it was to be applied to practice. They now heard, for the first time, that this sum of 10,000lcustos personœ.lMr. Bernal
l[688 would support the grant
l[688Mr. R. Ellison
custos679 said, that the House had not met for the purpose of imposing burthens on the people, but rather to consider in what manner a part of the funds put at their disposal by the death of her majesty might be applied. They had
custos679Mr. R. B. Cooper
[676675ad valoreml[674l673custosl[672ll671[670669║ said, that it was with unaffected diffidence he offered himself to the attention of the House, at a time when he was aware there must be so many persons of rank and consideration desirous of stating their sentiments on this most important subject. He should perhaps be thought to stand the more in need of the indulgence of the House, as it was not his intention to enter into any of the legal points of the case. If the arguments on that part of the question urged by his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Scarlett) on the floor had, failed to convince the House, he (Mr. Denman) had not the presumption to suppose, that any thing he could say would have that effect. With a perspicuity and candour which proved that he was convinced of the truth of the doctrine he maintained, his hon. and learned friend, the solicitor general, had endeavoured to combat those arguments, but most unsuccessfully. After so full and able a discussion, it was in his opinion
[676675ad valoreml[674l673custosl[672ll671[670669║Mr. Denman
659 said, the hon. member for Norfolk, whose opinion on subjects of this kind must always have great weight, had stated, very justly, that if the agricultural horse tax were taken off, it would' afford great relief to the farmer. The farmers in the county which he had the honour to represent, felt that tax press most heavily on them; and he should soon have to present a petition from those individuals, praying for some relief from its severe operation. He thought, if government would tolerate a composition for that tax, it would be an extremely beneficial measure; thus, if the farmers were allowed to use a certain number of horses, at particular seasons of the year, when their business absolutely required them, instead of assessing them when they were once employed, for the whole twelve months, it would be a very considerable relief. Such a provision would, in a great degree, meet the wishes of the agriculturists, at the same time that it would not create that jealousy which the prayer of the present petitions had excited to a most alarming extent. The House must see, from the remonstrances of the agriculturists, how dangerous it was to enter on a vicious system, of legislation. When once it was commenced, no person could say where it was likely to end. What did the agriculturalists say? They complained to the House that the manufacturers were protected but they were not. What inference was to be drawn from this complaint? Either that the agriculturists should be also protected, or that the duties imposed for the protection of the manufacturers should be removed. He knew no other way in which the complaint could be got rid of. Either the agriculturist must have protecting duties, of those imposed for the benefit of the manufacturer must be removed. He did not
659Mr. Lyttelton
lllll[680l hoped that the House would bear with him, while, for the first time, he offered a few observations to their notice. He could not entirely concur with any gentleman who had yet spoken. The question in no way depended upon the love and esteem the House bore for his majesty's person. He was well convinced that the nation would make any sacrifice if it could contribute to the personal comfort of their afflicted monarch, but it was most preposterous to argue that the grant of 10,000lllll[680lMr. W. Williams
663 said, he had no hesitation whatever in avowing that the letter quoted in the petition had been written by him. He did not conceive, however, that it contained a single sentiment which could be turned against him. The fact was, that when the petitioner first hinted to him his intention of bringing forward a charge which should be made the subject of parliamentary inquiry, he did not believe that he was serious. He had concluded his correspondence with the petitioner with the letter which he had read to the House last night. The petitioner's letter, he had last night observed, was only the first of a series of letters. He admitted that he had answered the petitioner more mildly than perhaps he deserved. He did not, however, wish to visit the act of the father on the son; and he was not ashamed to say, that he recollected that the man to whom he was writing had been kind to him at an early period of his life. In reply to the letter which was quoted in the petition, the petitioner re-stated the substance of his first communication. He (Mr. Quin) then finished the correspondence with the letter which he had read to the House
663Mr. Quin
705‡verbatim said, he rose merely for the purpose of setting himself right with regard to a misapprehension, as to what had fallen from him in the former debate. What he had then stated was, that many expressions similar, if not 705‡verbatimMr. Scarlett
[662"The Petitioner states, that afterwards, on the 15th December, he received another letter from the said W. W. Quin, couched in nearly the same terms of friendship; but which letter the petitioner has not brought to this country; and the petitioner never since that period has received any letter from the said W. W. Quin, of which the petitioner is ready to make oath, subject to the pains and penalties of perjury; further, the petitioner humbly shows, that the said Thomas William Grady being only 23 years of age, and too inexperienced for the important task of instructing counsel, and arranging evidence for the approach-
[662(Signed) 'W. W. QUIN.'"'I stand so perfectly clear of the charge intended to be brought against me that I shall cherfully commit myself to the judgment of the House of Commons; you say I have given you mortal offence. I am sorry to hear it, for nothing was ever farther from my mind, and if I knew when, I should have great pleasure of assuring you it was very far from my intentions; some long and rather angry letters have passed between us; I did not begin them; I cannot forget that you were very kind to me in early life; and I cannot behold our ancient intimacy, now on the point of being severed, without deep regret: if I am cooler than you, you are much the abler man of the two; but I think you are now rather hasty; however, though perhaps you choose it should be for the last time, I will still subscribe myself, your's truly,'Adare, 2nd November, 1818.661 presented a Petition from Thomas Grady, committed yesterday evening to Newgate, for a breach of the privileges of the House. The petitioner, he observed, had an additional claim on him to present this petition, in consequence of the introduction into it of a letter which had been in his (sir R. Wilson's) possession for three weeks. This letter, dated the 2nd of November, purported to be from the hon. member for the county of Limerick. It was given to him (sir R. Wilson) by the petitioner, in order to show the manner in which the hon. gentleman had replied to the letter written to him by the petitioner; and also, perhaps to impress his mind favourably towards the petitioner, by showing the consideration in which he had been held by the hon. gentleman— He (sir R. Wilson) would not pretend to say that the letter was genuine, although it had the appearance of being so. It had the proper post mark. It had the signature of the hon. member, and, above all, it expressed those kind feelings which, as he understood from the hon. gentleman's friends, were so natural to him. But then it varied much from the tone of the reply which, he understood from the hon. gentleman last night, he had sent to the petitioner's letter. Perhaps he (sir R. Wilson) was wrong. The hon. gentleman would soon have an opportunity either of acknowledging the letter, or of disclaiming it. He would, therefore, confine himself to a statement of the contents and prayer of the petition—The petition sat forth,[662"The Petitioner states, that afterwards, on the 15th December, he received another letter from the said W. W. Quin, couched in nearly the same terms of friendship; but which letter the petitioner has not brought to this country; and the petitioner never since that period has received any letter from the said W. W. Quin, of which the petitioner is ready to make oath, subject to the pains and penalties of perjury; further, the petitioner humbly shows, that the said Thomas William Grady being only 23 years of age, and too inexperienced for the important task of instructing counsel, and arranging evidence for the approach-
[662(Signed) 'W. W. QUIN.'"'I stand so perfectly clear of the charge intended to be brought against me that I shall cherfully commit myself to the judgment of the House of Commons; you say I have given you mortal offence. I am sorry to hear it, for nothing was ever farther from my mind, and if I knew when, I should have great pleasure of assuring you it was very far from my intentions; some long and rather angry letters have passed between us; I did not begin them; I cannot forget that you were very kind to me in early life; and I cannot behold our ancient intimacy, now on the point of being severed, without deep regret: if I am cooler than you, you are much the abler man of the two; but I think you are now rather hasty; however, though perhaps you choose it should be for the last time, I will still subscribe myself, your's truly,'Adare, 2nd November, 1818.661Sir Robert Wilson
711 said, he would give his determined opposition to any proposition for a change in the present duties, conceiving that the complaints made against
711Mr. S. Worthy
 observed, that the number of electors in the borough of Penryn amounted to between two and three hundred, while the cases of corruption and bribery adverted to in the report of the committee, were but eleven in number, only eight of which were the cases of voters. He believed it had never been the custom of the House to disfranchise any place in which the existence of general corruption had not been proved.Mr. Atkins Wright
 concurred in the wish to do every thing for the purpose of preserving the purity of the representation. In order, however, that he might be enabled to form a judgment on the particular case before the House, he wished to be informed by the Chair, if it was usual to take such a step as that proposed, of delaying the issuing of the writ, when no special report of general corruption had been made by a committee? If it was usual for the House to regulate its proceedings by the report of the committee, he did not conceive that the report just presented would justify such a step. If, on the other hand, the House had taken up cases in which no special report had been made by the committee, it was now in the situation of having been told by a member of the committee, that there was matter on the minutes which, if produced, might induce the House to take some ulterior proceeding. It was desirable, therefore, that the House should know what had been the practice, as no duty of the House was more important than to take care that the number of its members should always be as complete as possible.Lord Castlereagh
 thought that, after what had fallen from the Chair, it would be desirable to postpone the debate that there might be time to consider the subject. He therefore moved, that the debate be adjourned till Monday.Lord Castlereagh
 instanced several cases, among which were those of Shoreham, Aylesbury, Stockport, &c, in which the House had proceeded to throw open the boroughs in question, but said he believed that, in all those cases, the step had been taken on the motion of the chairman of the committee, made at the desire of the committee, and founded on the statement that bribery in the place in question existed to such an extent as to call for the interference of the House. At the same time, he would not say that a similar step might not be taken at the suggestion of an individual member of the committee. He approved of the suggestion of the noble lord to adjourn the debate, in order to give an opportunity for inquiring into the subject. On a subject which involved the greatest stretch of power which the House possessed, the utmost jealousy should be shown; and no place entitled to have a representative in parliament should be permitted for a single moment to remain unrepresented. At the same time he perfectly agreed with an hon. gentleman, that the most useful species of reform was the exercise of that great power, in the disfranchisement of such boroughs as evinced general corruption. Whenever such a proceeding had been resorted to, it had produced the best effects; and he trusted that the precedents of former times in that respect would be strictly adhered to.Mr. Wynn
 remonstrated against any alteration in the duties.Lord Granville Somerset
 observed, that the present was scarcely a fair opportunity for discussing the subject.Lord Castlereagh
713 Wright informed the House, that the select committee appointed to try the merits of the petition complaining of an undue return for the borough of Penryn, had determined, "That Henry Swann, esq. is not duly elected a burgess to serve in this present parliament for the borough of Penryn:—That John Lavicount Anderdon, esq. is not duly elected a burgess to serve in this present parliament for the said borough:—That the petition of the said John Lavicount Anderdon, esq. did not appear to the committee to be frivolous or vexatious:—That the opposition of the said Henry Swann, esq., to the said petition, did not appear to the said committee to be frivolous or vexatious." The hon. member added, that he was directed to inform the House, that the House had come to the following Resolutions:—1." That it appears to this committee, that Henry Swann, esq., was guilty of bribery at the last election for the borough of Penryn, and is thereby incapacitated to serve in parliament at such election. 2. That it appears, by evidence before this committee, that John Goodeve, Henry Durnsford, and Abraham Winn, were guilty of corrupt practices to influence the last election for the borough of Penryn. 3. That it appears, by evidence before this committee, that Henry Carter, Thomas Rosman, John Gill, Francis Major, James Cock, Charles Luckie Skinner, William Trathan, and William Lapshire, received bribes to induce then) to give their votes
713Mr. Atkins
 regretted that he felt it his duty to oppose the motion for issuing a writ for an election for this borough; but it appeared to him that the case was one which required that the minutes of the evidence, and proceedings of the committee, ought to be laid before the House. He understood that lists had been given in on each side, containing each the names of above one hundred individuals who had been guilty of bribery. It also appeared by the report, that three persons, employed as agents at the last election, had been guilty of corrupt practices. On the whole, therefore, he thought it impossible for the House to form a just opinion on this case, until it was in possession of the minutes of the committee, and that this should be done before the new writ was issued, or any other proceeding adopted. He concluded by moving an amendment, by leaving out from the word "do," to the end of the question, in order to add the words, "not issue his warrant to the clerk of the Crown, to make out a new writ for the electing of a burgess to serve in this present parliament for the borough of Penryn, until the House shall have proceeded to take the said report into further considetion," instead thereof.Sir C. Burrell
721[720719 said, it was with infinite pain that he now presented himself to the notice of the House. He felt he had undertaken a difficult task: he threw himself, however, on the patience of the House, claiming from all parties and all individuals in it, their protection and assistance. He felt himself in a most difficult and painful position—not because he conceived he was advocating-a bad and a wrong cause, but lest, from his want of experience and want of knowledge of the forms of the House, he might either fail to protect an injured individual, or seem deficient in respect for the independence and dignity of the Common' House of Parliament. He should be truly sorry, if any arguments or any expressions used by him, should either injure that cause which he wished to support, or offend the House, which he wished to conciliate. The hon. member for Dover gave him notice yesterday, that he should oppose his motion, on the ground that the petition presented by his gallant friend, contained in it something disrespectful to the House. He could assure the hon. member, had he conceived that there were any words in that petition injurious or offensive to the House, he should not have presumed to appear here to move for the liberation of the petitioner. But he begged leave to remind the House, that the decision, the propriety of which he questioned, was come to on Wednesday night last, in a thin House, consisting of not more than fifty members, and when several members were not, perhaps, aware of the nature of that decision. He did not presume to question the privileges of the Commons' House of Parliament—he respected them, because they were of the most inestimable value to the people, protecting and dignifying as they did, the representatives of that people—they were not, therefore, so much their privileges as the privileges of the people. He was the last man who should be disposed to rise up in his seat, and insinuate any thing tending to bring those privileges into disrespect. But he thought the House had, in this case, misconceived those privileges —that they had acted in error. He should be sorry to be supposed anxious to promote the success of the accusation against the hon. member for the county of Limerick, or to be actuated by a wish to prejudge or prejudice that question. If in the examination on Monday se'nnight
721[720719Mr. Hutchinson
 to order. He said it was a little too much, after a resolution was entered on the Journals of the House, that this letter was a breach of privilege, for any member to come down on a subsequent day, and say that it was not— particularly having himself been present, and not having offered any arguments against that resolution.Mr. Wynn rose
[722said, he had left the House with many respectable members, who viewed the matter in the same light with himself, before the resolution was come to. When Mr. Grady was ordered
[722Mr. Hutchinson
 did not object to reading the letter, or to stating any thing in favour of the petitioner. But he objected to the broad statement, that the letter was not a breach of privilege, the House having decided that it was.Mr. Wynn
723 apprehended, if the House on more deliberation should think their decision was hastily formed, it would not be contrary to the dignity of parliament to re-consider their former decision. He should read the letter to the House [here the hon. gentleman read Mr. Grady's letter of the 19th October]. He had read that letter over and over again, and had consulted with several members, and they all agreed with him that it was not a breach of privilege. He could not presume to quarrel with the decision of the House, but he must say that, not having voted on this question, he must have more light on this letter before he considered it a breach of privilege. He did not know to what extent breach of privilege might be carried, but he conceived it was the wisdom of parliament to be slow to exercise that right, except on solemn occasions. The letter had been called by an hon. member, libellous; but if, on Monday se'nnight, the case against the member for Limerick should be proved, where was the libel? Mr. Grady had only lately recovered from a rheumatic fever, and he was in his sixtieth year; and some relief, if possible, ought to be granted him. He certainly did not mean to say that every kindness had not been shown: he had been much indebted to the kindness of a worthy alderman, member for the city, who had procured for him all the comforts he could expect in his situation. The hon. member for Dover had said, will you release a prisoner on Friday who was only committed on Wednesday? Certainly not, he would say, if this prisoner had committed a grave breach of privilege; but if, on a review of the case, he could find none committed by him, he thought he could not be too soon relieved. He had not seen Mr. Grady himself. He did communicate to him his intention, and to that communication he had received
723Mr. Hutchinson
custos rotulorum725 was not conscious of entertaining the least hostility towards the petitioner. He was ready to admit, that if, on a more deliberate review of their proceedings, they appeared of doubtful propriety, it would not be inconsistent with their dignity to retrace their steps. If he were conscious of having acted improperly in his vote on Wednesday, he should not be ashamed to confess his error; but, on deliberate consideration, he thought the course adopted by the House was correct, and that the petitioner's case was not one which impugned the justice of the House. The House had decided, that the writing and sending the letter was a high breach of privilege. The manner in which the privileges of the House had been infringed had been stated by an hon. and learned friend of his (Mr. Brougham) in a manner which had brought conviction home to the mind of every one who had heard him; and it was only under the idea that some members were present who had not heard that statement, that he should venture to repeat the grounds of the resolution of the House. The breach of privilege did not arise from the circumstance that the hon. W. Quin was a member of parliament—it did not arise from a personal injury done to him—it did not arise from the circumstances of
custos rotulorum725Mr. Courtenay
 said, that he had received that list from the petitioner, Mr. Grady the elder.Sir R. Wilson
[726 said, that he had corn-pared that document with the letter in question, and it was manifestly in the same hand-writing. He would indeed appeal to the hon. mover, whether he could have the slightest doubt that the letter was written by Mr. Grady. On the justice of the House the petitioner had therefore no claim. He had now to remark on the appeal which had been made to their mercy. It was, however, to be remarked, that the petitioner did not put his case on that ground. The allegation of the petitioner was, that the House had not decided on sufficient evidence. Now, though he had no wish to make petitioners, whether innocent or no, abjectly prostrate themselves before the House, yet it was rather too much that his liberation should be claimed as an act of mercy, when the justice of the decision was ques-
[726Mr. Courtenay
 said, that nothing which he had heard that evening had had the smallest effect in altering his sentiments on this case. All Mr. Grady sat forth in his petition was, that he had been committed on insufficient testimony, that of the member for Limerick; and that there was no proof of the letter having been intended for him, inasmuch as the superscription was lost, and his name was not mentioned in it. These declarations impugned the decision of the House, and were not calculated to excite their mercy. That the letter was meant for Mr. Quin was clear, since in one part of it, the petitioner said—" I otter you advice; I advise you to restore my son to his office, of which you have deprived him." This could only refer to the hon. member for Limerick, who had displaced the petitioner's son. Convinced that the petitioner had both written and sent the letter in question, he would oppose the motion.Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
727 had read the printed papers containing the evidence of Mr. Grady, and he felt called upon to say,
727Mr. N. Culvert
729[728 observed, that he should not have offered himself to the notice of the House, if he had not been anxious to do his utmost to bring it back to the line of duty and discretion. He was persuaded that there were not two lawyers to be found in the kingdom who would give it as their opinion that Mr. Grady had been guilty of any offence. It was of no consequence to this question whether the allegations in the second letter were true or untrue; that on which the commitment had been grounded, spoke of the supposed misconduct of a member of parliament; it was put merely hypothetically, and no man with the right use of his understanding could construe that into a breach of privilege. Supposing the facts stated to be well founded, all honest men would join heartily in the opinions which the writer had expressed. A member who had so misconducted himself, would merit the severest censure the House could inflict; but on the contrary, if it were proved that a foul conspiracy subsisted, the chastisement of parliament was equally due to the authors of it. The real and only question was, whether the letter produced by Mr. Wyndham Quin was or was not a threat. He begged to state most distinctly, that in his judgment the letter of the 19th of October was not meant as a threat. The fair construction of it was no more than this— "I have known you for fifteen years, and our intimacy has gradually increased; you have removed my son from an office he has long held, for political reasons;— retrace the steps you have so unadvisedly taken—recollect that you are about to commit a high political offence—replace my son, and I, in consideration of our friendship and your incautiousness, will do—what for no other human being in similar circumstances I would do—I will drop this matter:—nay object is not revenge, but justice, and I will not expose that profligacy which I am confident you yourself will repent." Such was the natural interpretation candid minds would put upon the letter, and even the hon. member had so considered it in his reply: this was upon the supposition that no offer had, in the first instance, come from Mr. A. Quin. A great deal had been said about the sacred privileges of the
729[728Mr. Bennet
731[730nem. con. thought it was impossible for the House not to have acted as it had done. How the two hon. members, who had moved and seconded the motion, could doubt that the letter constituted a breach of privilege, was to him astonishing. He believed one of them had been in the House when the first resolution had passed 731[730nem. con.Mr. Bankes
 observed, that though Mr. Grady, jun. had nominally held the office of clerk of the peace for fifteen years, he had discharged the duties of it by deputy.Sir R. Wilson
 thought that there were great shades of distinction in breaches of privilege; some were of a very offensive kind, and some comparatively venial. All the members present knew that breaches of privilege were committed every day; if they doubted it, they had only to turn their eyes to the gallery, and they would see individuals in the act of committing breaches of privilege; many of those in the habit of speaking would be very sorry, too, if such breaches of privileges were put an end to. As to the conduct of Mr. Grady at the bar, he was not aware that Mr. Grady had then committed any offence, though he had told him in Newgate that the fair manly way would have been to have admitted the letter at once. The worthy alderman then appealed to the member for Limerick, whether, if the prisoner were not released, a wrong impression might not be made on the public mind? It would do no injury to his cause to consent to his release, and would prevent all idle clamour. That the accommodation in Newgate had been much improved could not be denied; but then it was still Newgate; and if any hon. member were sent thither, whatever might be his accommodation, he would certainly wish for a speedy release. The prisoner was a barrister, aged, and the adviser of his son, who could not proceed without him. Under all these circumstances, the worthy alderman implored the House to consent to his release, as the prisoner had already been sufficiently punished.Mr. Alderman Wood
 said, he was one of those who had voted for the commitment of Mr. Grady, but he done so without being fully aware of all the circumstances of the case. He now appealed from his vote when ill-informed, to his vote when well informed upon the matter; for if he had understood as much from hearing the letters read, as he had from seeing them in print, he should not have come to the conclusion which he had upon a former evening. He did not conceive that the case against Mr. Grady, on the question of intentional breach of privilege, was at all made out; and he believed that the hon. member for Limerick himself had not thought that any breach of privilege existed, until it was mentioned in the House. Mr. Moore then contended, that the case of Mr. Grady was in no one sense of so aggravated a nature as that of Mr. Fuller, the member for Sussex, who, after having been guilty of very outrageous conduct, in the course of which he had been with difficulty prevented from committing a violent assault upon the Speaker was, nevertheless, only put into custody of the serjeant-at-arms, up-stairs, and was discharged the next day, on a note of apology from him being read.Mr. Peter Moore
 said:—I think the dignity and consistency of the House materially interested in the decision of this question. On a former night the petitioner was, after an examination at your bar, declared guilty of a high breach of privilege, and in consequence sent to his majesty's gaol of Newgate. The House adopted this measure unanimously, on such evidence as to them appeared proper. The petitioner now arraigns the judgment of the House, and the evidence on which it was founded. We cannot therefore comply with the prayer of this petition, without implying a censure on our own decision. And after the satisfactory manner in which the letters alluded to have been proved, I think the House is bound to refuse the petitioner's liberation. When he comes before the House and states his contrition for the offence, it will then be the proper time to extend the clemency of the House to him.Mr. Masterton Ure
733 said, that considering all the circumstances of the case, he would take the liberty of suggesting to the hon.
733Mr. Lambton
 expressed his disinclination to accede to the suggestion of the hon. member on the floor. He would ask, how the House would feel in this case, if the charge advanced by the petitioner's son should turn out to be well founded? It appeared, from what had been stated, that an improper contract had actually been proposed by the hon. member for Limerick, and all the petitioner's letter conveyed was, in his mind, the mere expression of a determination to lay that proposition before the House. This being the case, he could not consider the petitioner's letter to amount to a breach of the privileges of the House, and therefore he should certainly vote for the motion.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 thought that he should not act consistently, if he were to withstand the wish expressed for withdrawing the motion. What he had in view on this occasion was, to assert a great constitutional principle, and also to vindicate the liberty of the subject. According to the principle to which he alluded, no one was called upon to criminate himself; and it was to be recollected, that without the answers of the petitioner himself at the bar, there was actually no evidence against him, but that of the hon. member for Limerick, who was himself a party accused. He had, in the course of the evening, received a letter from the prisoner, in which he disavowed any intention to violate the privileges of the House. Still, in proposing to withdraw the motion, he wished it to be understood, that he could make no pledge as to the nature of the petition which the unfortunate prisoner would deem it proper to draw up in lieu of the one already presented.Mr. Hutchinson
 said, that the lists of voters guilty of bribery had been issued by each party, with the view of disqualifying any further votes on behalf of either party.Mr. C. Harvey
 said, there was no charge against the petitioner. The charge was against the sitting member, who had been proved to be disqualified by the report. He would set the hon. gentleman right, as to what he had said respecting the bribery oath. There was no such thing: the charge was confined to individual bribery, and if any thing of that kind had come out, the committee would have gone into it.Mr. C. Harvey
 admitted the truth of the noble lord's remark, but added, that whenever the hon. member for Surrey should bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, he would give it his most decided opposition.Mr. Littleton
 knew no question that had created a greater ferment through the country, than that of making an alteration in the existing duties upon coals. No time should be lost by ministers in deciding on the subject, as an additional hour of delay only served to heighten that alarm which had been already suffered to have gone too far.Mr. E. J. Littleton
 observed, that this was evidently a case in which parties were contending for their separate interests, and it was for the House to decide between them. It had an anomalous appearance, that one half of the country should be exempt from a tax to which the other was subject. The inhabitants of Stafford-shire had no reason for discontent or alarm in their present circumstances; since the iron-trade was now flourishing there with unprecedented success. He should oppose any tax whatever on coals, being satisfied that this was one of those impolitic measures which defeated its own end, and that the impulse which its repeal would give to manufactures would more than compensate a temporary reduction of the revenue.Mr. Protheroe
 said, it was not usual to suspend the issue of a new writ, unless on very evident grounds for doing so. The report did not convey such a general accusation of corruption on the part of the electors as should, in his opinion, induce the House to adopt the measure suggested.Mr. Holford
 wished to observe, that he believed no member of the committee was of opinion, that there was any proof of bribery having been committed by the petitioner.Mr. Holford
[712l.;l.;l. was not surprised that gentlemen who represented those counties in which coal duties were inoperative should object to any alteration in the nature of them. The sum of 1,020,000[712l.;l.;l.Mr. Holme Sumner
 said, he would give every opposition to the meditated equalization of the duties upon coal. The people of Shropshire and Staffordshire were particularly anxious on the subject, a people than whom there did not exist any more grateful or more loyal in the kingdom.Mr. Bennet
 remarked, that those who supported the equalization of the duties, had no wish that those who worked at the coal mines should be unemployed; on the contrary, they thought that the adoption of the proposed measure would increase the consumption of the article in question. He had no doubt that the people of Shropshire and Staffordshire were adverse to any change, for they were possessed of peculiar advantages at present, and like all persons so situated regarded with jealousy the approach of any thing in the shape of alteration. For his part, he was against any monopoly of benefit, and would therefore support a proposition for a more equal distribution of the duties on coals.Mr. Calcraft
[710 perfectly agreed with the
[710Mr. Edwards
 observed, that intimately connected as he was with a large manufacturing district, he could not hear in silence the many references made to this subject. He knew not how to give credit to the assertion, that the soil of the country was adequate to the support of the population. His belief was, that the population had considerably overrun the native produce. If this were not the case, it would be difficult to account for the immense importations of foreign corn which had taken place. Without such a supply, he would ask the House to consider what must have been the price of corn. He trusted that no mischievous result would be produced by these petitions; but if there should, it must be ascribed to those who caused the agitation of the subject.Mr. Birch
 contended that the existing tax was partial and unjust.Mr. N. Calvert
 said, he had been given to understand, that in this case the bribery on both sides had been so general, that neither of the candidates durst propose the administration of the bribery oath; for if either of them had proposed it, he would have been hunted out of the place. He would refer to any member of the committee, whether that was not the fact? In such a case, the House was bound to send for the minutes, for the purpose of inquiring further into the business. He had, more than once, witnessed the good effects resulting from depriving boroughs of their franchise on account of bribery, and transferring it to the adjoining hundreds, so as to put the bribery on a larger scale. Though the special report of the committee in this case was not so full as it might have been, and as it ought to have been, yet he thought, in that special report, there were sufficient grounds for warranting the suspension of the writ.Mr. Peter Moore
[714 said, that the bribery had been so notorious that notices were issued by each party, stating that votes given to the other would be thrown away. It also appeared that the three agents who had been found guilty of corrupt practices were contractors for the borough. Un-
[714Mr. Carew
 observed, that nothing could be more unjust than the present system, and he hoped ministers would see the subject in the same light.Mr. Newman
 said, he held in his hand two petitions signed by several respectable occupiers of land in the county of Somerset, praying for the imposition of duties on foreign produce. He was one of those who thought the present discussion of any measure of this sort inexpedient. At the same time he concurred with the petitioners in thinking that the soil of the country was capable of growing sufficient corn for the support of its inhabitants, and that we might become, as we had once been, an exporting instead of an importing people. He thought, too, that it would be sound policy not to depend on other nations for sustenance. In the present circumstances, however, he was sure that the petitioners would not wish to oppose the current of opinion in that House.Mr. Dickinson
 presented a petition from Monmouthshire against any change in the coal duties.Sir C. Morgan
 said, that the proposition which had been made on the subject of the coal duties, if carried into effect, would cause the greatest distress in those districts in which coals were indispensable to manufactures.Sir C. Morgan
 said, that if any hon. member entertained an opinion, that on all occasions where the committee had made a special report, the writ had been delayed, it was a mistake. The writ had never been delayed but in cases where there was supposed to be sufficient reason for disfranchising the borough.The Speaker
[716 in answer to the appeal to his opinion made by the noble lord, whether it was usual to delay the issuing of the writ, except on a case stated in the report of the committee, said certainly not, But that did not get rid of the difficulty. A special report had been made, and it was for the House to estimate its importance and weight. If it was considered to involve, the disfranchisement of the whole borough, by a statement of general corruption, the House was in the habit of proceeding, in such cases, in the manner suggested by the hon. mover of the amendment. If on the contrary, it was clear that no part of; the report referred to the borough at large, but only to individuals, he was not
[716The Speaker,
 observed, that the poor in the counties which would be most materially affected by any change in the duties on coals were already in such a state that they could scarcely buy shoes to their feet or salt to their porridge. The fat eaters of venison in the metropolis ought to be ashamed of themselves for wishing to benefit by a farther pressure on those who were already enduring so much.Sir Isaac Coffin
717‡ said, that the lenity of the House had been extended to this bo-
717‡Sir J. Newport
715primâ facie thought that, although the House in the first instance very properly delegated their right of inquiry into the conduct of an election to a committee, yet that when that committee reported that the sitting member was disqualified on the ground of bribery, and that other persons were implicated both as the agents, and as the objects of that bribery, a 715primâ facieSir J. Newport
 acceded to the motion for delay, on the ground that this borough had been brought before the House at two not very distant periods.Mr. Bankes
 said, that seven or eight persons had been proved to have received bribes in this borough. This was the extent of the bribery proved. As to the notion that a hundred voters had been bribed, it was entirely without foundation in the evidence.Mr. A. Wright
 said, there was no proof before the committee, that the bribery oath had, or that it had not, been administered.Mr. A. Wright
 asked, whether the poll book had been produced by the person to whose custody it had been intrusted?Mr. S. Bourne
 was hostile to discussing in the House a point decided on by a committee, but he thought the correctness of their decision questionable, and quoted two precedents that seemed to impeach it.Mr. Wynn
737 was of opinion that it would be more convenient if the House did not proceed with the consideration of the question until the minutes of evidence
737Sir C. Burrell
 said, that after what the House had heard of the base and mercenary spirit which prevailed in that borough, they would see the necessity of not proceeding with the discussion until they should have the minutes of evidence fully before them. He would therefore move, that the debate be further adjourned till Monday.Sir C. Burrell
 said, that to prevent any doubt upon the object for which the prisoner was to be brought up, it might be better to let the word "reprimanded" be inserted.Mr. Wynn
753[752751[750749[748†747[746lll745[744743[742741 said, that in rising to call the attention of the House to the important subject to which his notice referred, he should endeavour to state shortly the objects to which he proposed that the committee, for the appointment of which it was his intention to move, should direct its inquiry. —At the outset he felt it necessary to advert to the motion of which an hon. and learned gentleman had given notice for to-morrow evening, because that motion was closely and intimately connected with the purposes comprehended in the motion with which he meant to conclude. The object, indeed, of the hon. and learned gentleman, was directly and immediately involved in the inquiry for which he (lord C.) proposed to move; and he apprehended that if the tenor of his notice upon this subject had been distinctly understood, the hon. and learned gentleman would have felt, that the motion of which he had given notice was unnecessary. But he doubled whether the notice given for him by his right hon. friend at an early period or the session, was clearly comprehended; for that notice did not refer merely to the state of gaols, but to the best mode of providing for the reformation, custody and punishment of offenders. It was not, he believed, so understood by the hon. and learned gentleman, or he would have naturally conceived that the object of his notice would embrace the state of crime and the character of our criminal laws, not incidentally or indirectly, as the hon. and learned gentleman and others ap-
753[752751[750749[748†747[746lll745[744743[742741Lord Castlereagh
[754 observed, that he had intended not to say a single word on the question, but the frequent appeals to him by the noble lord rendered it a matter of courtesy that he should make a few remarks. The noble lord, in the course of his able and candid speech, had said a great deal about the motion which he supposed he (sir J. Mackintosh) would make to-morrow, and but very little on the motion which he had himself made that night. For himself, he had already declared his resolution not to open to the
[754Sir James Mackintosh
tria-juncta-in-uno755 said, the subject divided itself into three great branches —punishment, by death, by transportation, and by imprisonment. The question was, whether those three points could better be investigated by one, or by several committees? Notwithstanding the arguments of the hon. and learned gentleman opposite, he conceived those subjects were so intimately connected, that the investigation of one must necessarily embrace the investiga-
tria-juncta-in-uno755Mr. Lawson
[756 although he admitted that, as his hon. and learned friend had said, the remarks made by the noble lord applied rather to the discussion that was to take place to-morrow, than to the motion of that evening, begged leave to make a very few observations. There was on the table of the House a large roll of paper, which he understood was to be referred to the committee, for which the noble lord had moved. That roll consisted of documents which might be divided into two classes, the first, comprehending returns of the state of the prisons of the kingdom, and of the number of persons which they contained; the second containing all the rules and regulations belonging thereto. Now, let the House only consider what the committee would have to do. They were to inquire not only as the subject respected England, but as it respected Ireland and Scotland, into the general state of the gaols—to inquire whether there were sufficient funds
[756Mr. Bennet,
[758757 said, he felt as strongly as the hon. gentleman that this inquiry could not be got through in any reasonable time. But he had, a still stronger objection to it
[758757Mr. Wynn
 took the opportunity of remarking on that part of the speech of the noble lord which attributed the increase of crimes, amongst other causes, to the disbandment of such a large portion of the army and navy. From his situation, he had had the means of witnessing the effects of that change which the peace produced, and he could state, that the number of persons charged with offences who came under that description, did not exceed one in eighty. Many soldiers and sailors, chiefly the latter, were brought before the magistrates, but they were principally as paupers. The great source of crime, he was confident, arose from the congregated state of our prisons, where prisoners were thrown together without classification; and particularly where those sentenced for transportation were kept for a considerable time, corrupted themselves, and haying nothing else to do, than to corrupt others. Besides, on a gaol delivery, the law, which ordered persons so released to be sent to their homes and there to be provided for, was allowed to remain inoperative.Mr. Alderman Wood
[760esprit de corps759 thanked the noble lord for the gracious manner in which he had been pleased to view his exertions and opinions in favour of a reformation in the system of our prisons. There was, however, a little misrepresentation in the statement of the noble lord, which it was most material to have corrected. The noble lord bad attributed to him, that he considered the source of crimes to spring exclusively from the state of our prisons. He had never thought so— he had never said so. All that he had seen —all that he had heard, would never have allowed him to make a statement so absurd, or to arrive at a conclusion which must be ac-
[760esprit de corps759Mr. Fowell Buxton
 Wilbraham did not intend to oppose the motion, but he would suggest, that the old usage of the House should not be departed from in the present instance. It was the practice on occasions similar to this to move, that the person in custody be brought up, not forthwith, but on the following day. Besides, if Mr. Grady were to be brought to the bar in the course of the present evening, it would probably interrupt the debate which was about to commence. He therefore suggested, that instead of the word "forthwith," in the motion, the word "to-morrow" should be inserted.Mr. Bootle
 had no objection to alter his motion as the hon. member had suggested.Mr. Hutchinson
 said, that unless it were meant that the petitioner was to to be reprimanded upon his appearance at the bar, he should feel it his duty to make a special motion on the subject.Mr. Bankes
 in rising to present a petition from this gentleman, observed, that it would not be necessary for him to go over the same ground which he had gone on a former occasion when this question was before the House. He was the less inclined to this, because he understood it to be the general feeling of the House that there would be no opposition to his release. His wish was to conciliate all parties, and not to offer any thing which might prejudice the cause of the gentleman whose petition he was about to present. The petitioner expressed his sincere sorrow at having in any manner offended the House. At the same time he solemnly declared, that he never had any such intention. He, therefore, prayed that he might be released from custody.Mr. Hutchinson,
 agreed in the propriety of waiting for the minutes of evidence, and observed, that when they were laid before the House, it would be found that some of the assertions would hot be borne out by the evidence.Mr. C. Harvey
[736 was aware that there was great inconvenience in discussing such a question before the House. All must think, that a case of greater hardship
[736Mr. Abercromby
[738bona fide said, there were few subjects coming under the consideration of parliament, of greater importance than those connected with the rights of electors, and the privileges of the House; and he felt desirous that on the present occasion they should so conduct the proceedings as to show to the people of England that if there were many persons who thought the elective franchise should be more extended, and others of a contrary opinion, that they would take care that those who had the elective franchise should exercise it, fairly, freely, and constitutionally. And here it was important to observe, that by acceding to the hon. baronet's motion, the House would enable those who had proved themselves so unworthy of being electors to repeat those acts of corruption so disgraceful to themselves and injurious to the public; while by postponing the writ it would be liable to the charge of depriving the [738bona fideMr. Masterton Ure
per fas aut nefas,735 thought it right, as a member of the committee, to draw the attention of the House to the circumstances
per fas aut nefas,735Mr. N. Calvert
l thought there was sufficient evidence to show the system of gross bribery which had been practised in this virtuous borough. One fact alone Would prove it: the electors were assembled at a public breakfast, and each of them received 24lMr. Denison
 said, that before the House proceeded to the adjourned debate, it might be convenient to them to know in what state of forwardness the minutes of evidence were which had been Ordered to be printed. From their length he did not think they would be in the hands of members before Thursday. The House would, therefore see what time might elapse before members were put in possession of the information which might be necessary on the subject. With respect to the question of suspending the issuing of writs upon special reports, he had before expressed what had occurred to him at the moment. Since then he had looked into all the cases since the year 1770, and from these it appeared, that in all cases where reports were made, charging bribery and corruption upon a number of electors, the issuing of the writ was suspended until the House had before them the minutes of evidence taken before the committee. In the case of Ilchester, indeed, the report charged some individuals with bribery, but did not call for any general resolution. In that case the House ordered the new writ, and directed the attorney-general to prosecute the offenders for bribery.The Speaker
 conceived that the order for the prisoner's appearance at the bar, previous to his release, necessarily implied a reprimand.The Speaker
 hoped the House would consider the age of the petitioner and his ill state of health, and also that some days had elapsed since he had been committed to prison.Sir Robert Wilson
 said, that the omission of any notice of the bribery oath in the poll book decisively proved the negative.Sir J. Newport
 approved of the adjournment. He understood, that in addition to bribery, it was proved that neither one party nor the other had tendered the bribery oath to any voter. He understood also, that a paper had been offered to the committee, which though not accepted, as it could not be brought home to either party, tainted the character of the whole borough. It was no great punishment, after the second time of the borough being brought before the House for bribery, that its franchises should be put in suspension for a time.Sir J. Newport
 said, the votes had not been proved by the best evidence the case would admit of. Neither the poll clerk nor sheriff had been brought before the committee. The only evidence the person who had the poll book could give was, that he had received it in a sealed parcel from the town clerk of Limerick, but of its contents he knew nothing. He would allow, however, that the case was a very hard one on the Irish members, and he should willingly go a great length in allowing them to authenticate votes in another manner. If the poll clerk of every barony was obliged to attend, it might be necessary to bring over eighteen or twenty of them.Sir T. Baring
 brought up the report of the select committee on the petition of T. Spring Rice, esq. complaining of the election for the city of Limerick. It stated, that the sitting member, the hon. John. Prendergast Vereker, appeared to have been duly elected; but that the petition was not frivolous or vexatious.Sir T. Baring
 expressed his hostility to the equalization of the tax on coals. Those on whom the impost would fall, if an alteration took place, were, at present, scarcely able to earn their subsistence, and it would be unfair to deprive them of any advantage which their local situation afforded.Mr. Morgan
[774**dsdss hoped that the agitators of this question would make up their minds with respect to what they really wanted, before they came to parliament. If he rightly understood the hon. alderman, the citizens of London wished for a total repeal of the tax. If this were the case, those who opposed the alteration, need not trouble themselves further about the matter, the hon. alderman and the chancellor of the exchequer could settle it between them. If, however, the hon. alderman did not succeed in his object, he hoped he would not attempt to throw the burthen from his own shoulders, and place it on the blacks of others. When the question came to be debated, it would be found that the city of London had not a shadow of foundation for the complaints that were made. The citizens of London had the advantage of the cheapness of manufactures, and were not affected by those unfavourable circumstances which operated in the country. The duty on sea-borne coal was equal throughout the kingdom. It was, he believed, 6[774**dsdssColonel Wood
 thought this a very serious question. If he ever knew a period in which it would be harsh and cruel to lay an additional tax on the coal districts, it was at this time, when so much distress prevailed throughout the country. The equalization of taxes had, indeed, a great appearance of justice, but at this period of our history it was not practicable. If any new measure were to be adopted, he thought a far greater proportion should be borne by the metropolis than any other part of the kingdom. He wished to know if there was any intention on the part of ministers to make this a question of theirs. As he did not see the chancellor of the exchequer in his place, he hoped the hon. secretary of the treasury would be able to give an answer. It was essential to know whether ministers, with the knowledge which they had of the distress of the country meant to impose any new lax.Mr. W. Littelton
 took the liberty of suggesting to the House, whether the revival of this discussion on every petition that was presented, by which the regular course of business was interrupted, could be considered the best mode of bringing the question to a rational conclusion? Was it not more likely to disgust the House, and prevent them from entertaining the subject cordially, when it came before them in a regular shape? As there was no objection to laying the petition on the table, he trusted the discussion would end here.Mr. Canning
777 said, he had understood last night that it was the intention of the noble lord opposite to subdivide the committee which he had obtained into sub-committees, to
777Mr. Wynn
 said, that he had no such intention, and that the members of the committee would make the best arrangements amongst themselves to examine the information which had been or should be collected.Lord Castlereagh
 wished to inquire of the Chair, whether such proceedings could be carried on, and whether committees were to be allowed to divide themselves into sub-committees. He contended that it could not be done without the special consent of the House. He had looked over the Journals, and found that in 1640, such a power had been declared to reside in grand committees only. In 1661, and 1667, several instances had occurred, in which that power had been granted by the House upon very particular grounds being shown. But since that period, no other instance whatever had taken place. Regarding such a practice as of a most dangerous tendency, if such a motion was to be made, he trusted that a day would be fixed for its consideration, in order that he might take the sense of the House upon it.Mr. Wynn
[806805masquerade[804803[802801 observed, that in rising to answer a speech of such length and variety as that of the hon. and learned gentleman, it was not his intention to take up much time in stating the impressions which it had left upon his mind. He should not, however, do justice to his own feelings, which he was sure accorded with those of the House, if he did not express his sense of the temperate and candid manner in which the question had been brought forward. It had been argued, too, with a precision which was to be expected from the general talents and legal knowledge of the hon. and learned mover. His own views did not differ to any great extent from those of the hon. and learned gentleman, but he was apprehensive that the motion and speech of the hon. and learned gentleman, although they could have no such effect in that House, might be construed out of doors as casting a reproach on the jurisprudence of the country, and ascribing to if a sanguinary character; although he knew that the objections, as stated by the hon. and learned gentleman applied to the principle of legislating in a particular form, and not to the administrative practice which existed. It was with much satis-
[806805masquerade[804803[802801Lord Castlereagh
825 was of opinion, that the 'only difference which subsisted between the motion of his hon. and learned friend and that of the noble lord, was the mode
825Mr. Courtenay
[838837[836That835[834833[832 expressed great satisfaction at the speech of his hon. friend the member for Bramber, which had certainly put the question before the House in a fair point of view. He was happy to say that he concurred in almost every one of the general opinions of his hon. friend, and in none more cordially than in his admiration of the manner in which the question had been introduced by the hon. and learned gentleman (he hoped he would permit him to call him his hon. and learned friend);—whose speech, combining luminous arrangement and powerful argument, with chaste and temperate eloquence, had been at the same time not less commendable for what it omitted, than for what it contained. It had been free from those defects which on such a subject might have beset the most wary speaker; and while his hon. and learned friend had held a straight-forward course towards the object of his motion, he had, with a dexterity highly creditable to his prudence and wisdom, steered clear of the shoals and quicksands by which that object was surrounded. He had observed the most praiseworthy caution in forbearing from reflexions on the general system of the criminal laws; and by so doing he had made it possible, even for those who would most fearfully have shrunk from a
[838837[836That835[834833[832Mr. Canning
l843l said, that after the brilliant display of eloquence and sound argument, which the House had that night witnessed, he should have contented himself with a silent vote on this important question, did he not feel it to be a duty which he owed to the corporation of the city of London, who first presented a petition to this House in favour of a revision of the criminal law, to support to the utmost extent of his humble abilities, the motion now before the House. His hon. friend, who stated to the House certain facts, which must have impressed upon the mind of every member the necessity of an immediate inquiry, had alluded to some information received from him (alderman Wood). He assured the House, that scarcely a day passed in the course of the two years, in which he filled a public civic situation, without some persons declining to prosecute, when the offence was held by the law to be capital. One most extraordinary instance occurred in which a prosecutor destroyed a bill of exchange amounting to upwards of 100l843lMr. Alderman Wood
[844 said, that he should not occupy much of the attention of the House. With respect to the assertion that capital punishment should, if possible, in every instance, follow the commission of crime, he could not but disagree from the position. Well might our laws be considered as sanguinary, if, in every case, suppose of burglary, death was necessarily to follow the commission of the act. The crime of burglary was defined to be the entering of a house be-
[844The Attorney General
827** said, he had at first taken a different view of the subject, but the eloquent and argumentative speeches of the hon. and learned mover, and of another hon. gentleman on the same side, had carried such conviction to his mind, that he should act most unconscientiously,
827**Mr. E. Littleton
 observed, that the way by which his right hon. friend could most effectually put an end to this question, was, by exerting his influence with the chancellor of the exchequer, and getting him to come down to the House with an open and manly declaration, that government had not only no intention of resorting to such a measure, but were so deeply impressed with the evils it would create, that they would oppose any attempt at an equalization of the coal tax.Mr. Littleton
771 wished to know, if gentleman did not intend to impose the duty
771Mr. Littleton
s[770sdssdss presented a petition from the merchants and manufacturers of the town of Wolverhampton, against tire Equalization of the Duty on Goals. The district to which this town belonged, contained a population of 150,000 inhabitants, who were chiefly engaged in the manufacture of hardware of a coarse description, the price of which depended in a very material degree on the price of coals. A tax of 1s[770sdssdssMr. E. J. Littleton
 said, the hon. member for Staffordshire accused him of having fallen into a mistake, when he observed, that his constituents were in a prosperous situation. It appeared, from what the hon. member had said, that great distress prevailed amongst some of them. He would tell the hon. member, that a great deal of that distress arose from the high price of coals, which was occasioned by the great quantity of that article exported from Staffordshire, owing to the coasting duty. In the manufacture of earthenware, and in other branches of trade, great injury was experienced from the existing system.Mr. Protheroe
 made several strong observations in favour of the original motion; and after stating the general feeling of the country, concluded by exclaiming, "if indeed we are, as we are said to be, the representatives of the people of England, we are bound to give out vote in favour of the, original motion."Mr. Protheroe
[776 wished to correct a very idle and absurd idea which was entertained in the city of London, namely, that coals were to be found in the neighbourhood of Blackheath, and that a monopoly was granted to the coal owners in the north, which was still more absurd if possible. Such stories put him in mind of an unfortunate gentleman, who imagined he had discovered a coal mine near Oxford, and who, in consequence, formed a rail-way and almost excavated a canal,
[776Mr. Bennet
 said, it had been reported, that a tax was about to be laid on coals at the mouth of the pit. He could not suppose that there was any such intention on the part of the government, and he could say for himself that he never would support such a measure.Sir James Graham
 rose and said:Mr. Fowell Buxton
 said, that, even in the coal counties, at a distance of twenty-five miles from the pit's-mouth, the consumer paid as much for his coals as the inhabitant of London. If this equalization took place, it would act as a most unjust and heavy impost.Mr. Curwen
 rose chiefly to allude to-some cases that had come within his own knowledge, and which showed that the penalties of the crime of forgery were often incurred by persons whom neither the law nor moral justice could have contemplated as fit objects for the extreme punishment of death. He had seen, and known boys of fifteen and sixteen years of age, who bad committed the crimes of forgery;—boys simple and uneducated and whose only capacity for the offence consisted in the being able to-write, and who were absolutely unacquainted with the consequences, either to themselves or others, of the act which they had been instructed to perpetrate. The hon. member for Weymouth in a speech which for facts, for argument, and for eloquence, was unanswerable, and which, reflected the highest credit on his character (though that indeed required no additional lustre), had been, perfectly correct in his reference to fraudulent bankrupts. Instances of the sentence being executed on such offenders were so rare, that they could scarcely be said to have occurred at all; and instances of prosecution were almost as rare. Yet it had appeared in evidence before the bankrupt committee, that no offence was were common or more injurious than that of fraudulent bankruptcy; but that creditors, however aggrieved, could not bring themselves to inflict the punishment of death.Mr. J. Smith
[826 spoke for neatly half an hour; but the cry of "Question! ques-
[826Mr. Lawson
773ds said, there was at present no proposition before the House for laying a tax generally on coals; but, having attended several meetings in the city, assembled for the purpose of considering the propriety of carrying into effect an equalization of the duty on coals, he wished briefly to state his sentiments on the subject. At none of those meetings did he perceive a wish or feeling to heap any burthen in the shape of a tax on their fellow subjects in the country. Those who met to consult on the subject wished to be relieved from this duty altogether. He was not himself a friend to taxation, and he felt its pressure pretty severely; but he had no desire, in getting rid of it, that other persons should bear the burthen for him. They wished to protect themselves from a very serious grievance. The citizens of London paid 9773dsMr. Alderman Waithman
 said, he was not aware that it was the intention of ministers to propose any alteration whatever in the present duties.Mr. Lushington
831[830829 felt that it was almost unnecessary for him to trespass on the attention of the House, after what they had already heard upon this important subject, and he feared that any observations of his, in support of his hon. and learned friend's motion, would weaken the effect of those arguments by which his hon. and learned friend had pressed it upon the House. He could say with truth, that in his long experience of that House, he never had heard a more able address, a more splendid display of profound knowledge of the subject, with such forcible reasoning from the facts which that knowledge had called forth. It was that kind of reasoning which was most calculated to convince—reasoning deduced from facts and from long experience. He not only had derived great pleasure from what he had heard, but also from what he had not heard in the course of the discussion; namely, those arguments, or rather those objections, against alterations of, or inquiry into, old laws and customs, which had been so vehemently urged at former periods. It was a pleasure to him to find that which every man acquainted with life must have seen, that the opinions of prejudice faded before truth, like the dusk before the more perfect light of day. He remembered once to have heard opinions urged against alterations of sanguinary laws, which were urged with as much apparent fear as if the person proposing those alterations were about to introduce the horrors of the French revolution. He had heard opinions at that time which any man would blush to hold at the present, day. No such objections were, however, made on this occasion; and the only one to the motion of his hon. and learned friend was, that it would be better to refer the matter to the committee proposed by his noble friend. And here he could not but ex-
831[830829Mr. Wilberforce
[828 began by saying, that he did not presume to congratulate the House, but he must congratulate himself on the eloquent lesson of moral wisdom which had been read that night from the other side of the House. [Hear, hear.] The hon. and learned mover had well redeemed his pledge, that he would not reflect either on the laws or on the administrators of them. The hon. gentleman then professed his intention of following the speech of the hon. and learned mover point by point, assenting to some of his propositions, and dissenting from others; but the law tone in which he spoke, prevented our hearing distinctly the grounds either of his approbation or disapprobation. He concluded nearly to the following effect:—With respect to the sentencing persons to the hulks as a commutation for the punishment of death, he conceded it to be an, extremely erroneous policy, and, in, fact, little else than a bonus upon, crime. The great and important alterations which he wished, to see made was, that amelioration, of the law by which the system of secondary punish-
[828Mr. Wilmot
 thought the subject before the House of such high importance as to require the undivided attention of one committee; and that it ought not to be referred to that little family of committees which, they were told, were to branch out of the committee of the noble lord. He was convinced that it would be hopeless to lock for any satisfactory report from any committee that was not exclusively occupied with, this important and complicated question.Sir Charles Mordaunt
 said, he should not be performing his duty towards his constituents, if he did not protest against any alteration in the coal tax. The evil which this equalization, as it was called, would produce, could not be contemplated without feelings of alarm. He gave every credit to the hon. alderman, to the gallant officer, and to those who acted with them, for the purity of their intentions; but he trusted they never would be able to induce ministers to take up a question which would be most injurious to the country.Sir C. Mordaunt
, if the appeal of the hon. member was intended for him, had no doubt in stating, that when a subject was delegated to a committee, it was delegated entire to every member of which that committee was composed. The House limited the numbers of the committee for that purpose.The Speaker
[824823[822821[820819[818ll817[816815[814§813policy,[812Is it politic?811[810156In the reigns of the House of Brunswick 
156In the reigns of the House of Brunswick 36In the reigns of the Stuarts
36In the reigns of the Stuarts27In the reigns of the Tudors
27In the reigns of the Tudors4In the reigns of the Plantagenets
4In the reigns of the Plantagenets
156In the reigns of the House of Brunswick 
156In the reigns of the House of Brunswick 36In the reigns of the Stuarts
36In the reigns of the Stuarts27In the reigns of the Tudors
27In the reigns of the Tudors4In the reigns of the Plantagenets
4In the reigns of the Plantagenets809[808807:—As one of the Committee on Prisons, which was nominated yesterday, and as one who feels a sincere desire, that the Committee may discharge its duty to this House, and to the country, I will state why I think that the subject of Criminal Laws ought not to devolve upon it, and the reason is very simple: it is, because I am sure, that all the zeal of its members—all their ability, and all their time will be wanting to execute those duties which have already been entrusted to them; and think the House will concur in this opinion, when it is recollected how much has been already
[824823[822821[820819[818ll817[816815[814§813policy,[812Is it politic?811[810156In the reigns of the House of Brunswick 
156In the reigns of the House of Brunswick 36In the reigns of the Stuarts
36In the reigns of the Stuarts27In the reigns of the Tudors
27In the reigns of the Tudors4In the reigns of the Plantagenets
4In the reigns of the Plantagenets
156In the reigns of the House of Brunswick 
156In the reigns of the House of Brunswick 36In the reigns of the Stuarts
36In the reigns of the Stuarts27In the reigns of the Tudors
27In the reigns of the Tudors4In the reigns of the Plantagenets
4In the reigns of the Plantagenets809[808807Mr. Speaker
s said, that the proposition for equalizing, as it was called, the duty on coals, would be virtually to wage war against poverty and penury. If the tax were taken off in London, it would be laid on at the pit's mouth and would thus press heavily on the poor. As to the ironmasters, they would, no doubt, take good care of themselves. The hon. gentleman who supported the equalization, would not be backward in placing an additional 2sSir Isaac Coffin
19Majority in favour of sir James Mackintosh's motion
19Majority in favour of sir James Mackintosh's motion128Noes
128Noes147Ayes
147Ayes
19Majority in favour of sir James Mackintosh's motion
19Majority in favour of sir James Mackintosh's motion128Noes
128Noes147Ayes
147Ayes845, in reply, observed, that he should be unreasonable if he did not think that the state of the argument lay fairly before the House, and that therefore it would not be requisite for him to trouble the House long at that late hour. With respect to his hon. and learned friend who had spoken last, he should set him right on one or two points. He did not intend that the punishment of death should in every instance follow the commission of burglary, nor did he mean at all to refer to the question of forgery.
19Majority in favour of sir James Mackintosh's motion
19Majority in favour of sir James Mackintosh's motion128Noes
128Noes147Ayes
147Ayes
19Majority in favour of sir James Mackintosh's motion
19Majority in favour of sir James Mackintosh's motion128Noes
128Noes147Ayes
147Ayes845Sir James Mackintosh
[800799[798797[796795[794793[792791[790789[788787[786785[784783[782781[780779[778**verbatim rose and addressed the House to the following effect:—[800799[798797[796795[794793[792791[790789[788787[786785[784783[782781[780779[778**verbatimSir James Mackintosh
[842841[840839 complimented his hon. and learned friend on the able manner in which he had brought his motion before the House, and observed that he did most heartily and feelingly concur with him in the eulogium which he had so eloquently passed upon a late illustrious member of their body. Had that individual, whom all in common with him deplored, been now alive, he would have had the satisfaction of witnessing the triumph of humanity over prejudice, and of reflecting that he had been the chief instrument, under Providence, in achieving it. In treating upon this topic he scarcely knew how to regulate his feelings; and yet it became him, more than any other individual, to be temperate in his praise, as he had been honoured by the friendship of that excellent man, even from his earliest years. He could say of him that when he first undertook his arduous labours in the cause of humanity, he had given credit to mankind for greater knowledge, liberality, and feeling than he afterwards found them to possess. He could say of him, that the chief object for which he lived was the amendment of the penal code; and he was certain that the hon. and learned mover was acting in a manner most congenial to the wishes of their departed friend, in proposing the present investigation into the state of the penal laws. The principles which that lamented statesman had been the first to propound to the House, though once most vigorously and vehemently disputed, had been that night complimented by men of all parties. The first bill which sir Samuel Romilly had introduced into parliament, contained the remarkable preamble, that the excess of severity did not prevent the commission of crimes. He introduced the bill with that preamble, in order that his sentiments might be recorded in this
[842841[840839Mr. Scarlett
775 said, he would not enter into a discussion on the merits of the question, but would merely state the nature of the communication he had received from Newcastle on Tyne that day. The individuals connected with the trade, felt, as far as their own interests were concerned, that the equalization of the coal duty was very important; but they were of opinion that if such a plan were adopted, it would throw on their neigh-
775Sir M. W. Ridley
[772ds conceived it to be a great hardship, that the poor of Southwork, and of London should pay 9[772dsSir R. Wilson
 said, that this question ought not to be decided by feelings of prejudice, but by a just view of the necessity of the case. If the duty now levied were generally beneficial to the country, why ought it not to be borne by the country at large? Could the hon. member for Staffordshire justify the imposing a partial tax, on a particular part of the community, the produce of which was applied to the benefit of the country generally?Sir R. Wilson
 was willing to communicate all the information on the subject which was in the possession of government; but he suggested the propriety of withdrawing the present motion, for the purpose of bringing another in a shape more likely to answer the purpose in view. He could assure the hon. baronet, that instructions had been issued to the Board of Taxes to institute an inquiry into the defalcations alluded to.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 concurred in recommending the hon. baronet to withdraw the present motion. If the papers furnished by the chancellor of the exchequer did not supply him with the necessary information, it would be in his power to move for more hereafter. It appeared that great depredations had been committed, and he hoped that every thing would be done by the Treasury to investigate this affair thoroughly.Mr. Tierney
 read a paragraph from the report from the Board of Taxes to the Treasury, with the view of satisfying the hon. baronet, that proper measures had been adopted against the persons implicated in the defalcations.Mr. Lushington
[848 said, that after what
[848Sir E. Knatchbull
 consented to withdraw the motion, on the assurance given by the chancellor of the exchequer. It was somewhat singular, that notwithstanding these defalcations had been pointed out more than two years ago, the persons complained of were still in the same situation.Sir W. De Crespigny
d.s.l.l.s.l.s.l.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.847 said, that in the motion which he proposed to submit to the House, he was convinced the chancellor of the exchequer would give him his cordial support. If the right hon. gentleman had consulted his own private feelings, he no doubt would have sifted the matter to the bottom, for he must be convinced that it required the minutest inquiry. The object of his motion was the detection of fraud practised by collectors, assessors, surveyors, commissioners clerks, &c, to an extent unknown before. He would do the right hon. gen-
d.s.l.l.s.l.s.l.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.847Sir W. De Crespigny
 presented a petition from Bewdley, against an equalization of the Coal Duties.Mr. Lygon
 said, that it certainly was not the intention of government to propose an equalization of this tax. While he made this declaration, he conceived himself bound to say, that he thought the course pursued by the petitioners from the inland districts injudicious, and that he did not see how any practical advantage was likely to result from the agnation of the question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that he should certainly oppose the appointment of such a committee. He could not see that the agnation of the question could be attended with any benefit.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought the subject should undergo a full, fair, and ample discussion.Mr. Courtenay
 thought, that the equalization should not be pressed, if it would hurt the manufacturers: but he trusted that the metropolis and other places could be relieved without burthening the manufacturer.Mr. Wilson
[886885**[884883[882881[880Sheick Houssein✶Sheick Houssein✶✶British879[878877[876875[874873[872871[870869[868867[866 rose and said: —Mr. Speaker; I rise, in pursuance of the notice given by me to the House at the opening of the session, to propose a Vote of Thanks to the marquis of Hastings, and to the officers and troops who served under his command during the late campaign in India. This vote I wish the House to understand, is intended merely as a tribute to the military conduct of the campaign, and not in any wise as a sanction of the policy of the war. I feel it necessary to state this reservation the more emphatically lest, from my having deferred ray proposition until the papers, which the Prince
[886885**[884883[882881[880Sheick Houssein✶Sheick Houssein✶✶British879[878877[876875[874873[872871[870869[868867[866Mr. Canning
[890889[888887 said, that after the speech of his right hon. friend, not more remarkable for its eloquence than for the clearness and excellence of its arrangement, he must bespeak the indulgence of the House, in endeavouring to offer a few remarks upon the proposition that had just been made. He was sensible of the difficulty of the task; but that difficulty was lessened by the consideration, that in, the greater portion of the observations made by his right hon. friend, he entirely acquiesced. To the governor general, for that commanding talent and consummate ability with which he had planned and directed the various and complicated movements of the late campaign in India, he offered the tribute of his unqualified approbation. He spoke certainly with
[890889[888887Lord Morpeth
 said, he could not withhold the tribute of admiration which was justly due to the candid and intelligible review which the right hon. gentleman had taken of the causes and events of the late war in India. There were circumstances, however, preceding that war, which, instead of lulling the governor-general into security, ought to have awakened his utmost vigilance and circumspection. He should not object to the vote of thanks to the noble marquis, because he thought that, after hostilities had commenced, the most laudable exertions had been made for prosecuting them with effect. It was certainly not satisfactory to find that the resolutions of parliament, so strongly and distinctly condemning the policy of extending our territorial possessions in India, were so often violated, without any investigation by the House of the reasons or necessity of that violation. He trusted it would not be the case with regard to the present question, and that a British House of Commons would not continue to view with indifference, the acquisition of extensive territories, and the transfer of millions of men from one government to another.Mr. Howorth
 said, he assented most cordially to every word which had fallen from the right hon. gentleman. He offered a few remarks on some of the operations of the campaign; and in particular alluded to the movement on Poonah. He remarked, of the 65th regiment, that it had this peculiarity attached to it, that three out of four of its field officers, acting as brigadier-generals, viz. brigadier-general Smith, brigadier-general Milne, and brigadier-general Fitzsimons, were all acting in the Decan.General Grosvenor
[892891 said, he should not presume to engage the attention of the House, except for a few minutes. The able and eloquent statement of the right hon. gentleman who introduced the motion, had left too deep impressions of its
[892891Sir Robert Wilson
893 hoped the House would excuse him if he offered himself to its notice for a few moments. It was impossible that a more just or concise notion of a series of important events could have been communicated than in the clear, candid and eloquent statement of the right hon. gentleman. He fully concurred with every part of that admirable speech, reserving only the right of forming his opinion hereafter upon a proceeding with respect to which they had not at present adequate information. As to the praise bestowed on the skill and conduct of those officers who had conducted the late military operations, he felt no small satisfaction in declaring his most cordial concurrence therein. Every man who had known the marquis of Hastings as long as he had known him, must be gratified to join in any vote of thanks, so amply merited, to an amiable and generous individual. He was happy also to accord with the commendations passed on several officers, in whose society he had experienced much happiness, and with whom he had formed connexions winch he hoped would not easily be dissolved. Sir John Malcolm and Mr. Elphinstone were men of whom any service might be proud. One of those gentlemen, although bred to the civil service, had, before he became a great general, shown himself to be a hero at the battle of Assaye. With regard to the eulogy so justly pronounced on captain Staunton, he doubted whether any exploit in modern war of a more brilliant character could be adduced. He agreed that it was right, in reference to the case of general Hislop, to allow him at present the benefit of all those presumptions in his favour which could arise from his own character, and from the approbation of lord Hastings. He believed, and he most sincerely hoped, that he would be able to explain the trans-
893Sir James Mackintosh
 denied, that during the last five-and-twenty years any of the wars in India had been caused by British aggression. The thanks of the House were, however, due for military services, independently of the justice or policy of the war. No praise, indeed, could be too high for the zeal and energy with which our affairs had been administered in that part of the world. We held our conquests there, as no empire was ever before maintained in security. No Marius or Sylla had ever sprung up among the subjugated nations, because they were mildly governed, and because the army was chiefly composed of native levies. The great emigration from neighbouring states into our territory was a convincing proof of the beneficial influence of our government.Sir W. Burroughs
863 said, that after the able and eloquent speech of his noble friend, after the powerful statement he had made of the grievances of the petitioners, and with the recollection which the House must have of the appeals which had been already made to its wisdom and justice on this subject, he felt it unnecessary to take up their time with any observations in favour of the prayer of the petitioners. He was sure, that whatever opinion might prevail respecting the original policy of our penal laws, there could be now but one opinion, that they were no longer necessary. He only wished to take that early opportunity of offering his humble testimony to the loyalty and forbearance which bad been uniformly displayed by the Catholics of England—by that class who were debarred, by the bad policy of our laws, from exerting their talents in those ranks and stations in society, which were the honourable reward of legitimate ambition to other classes of his majesty's subjects. Those opportunities of fair reward and honourable distinction which were open to the great mass of the people of this country, were shut to the Catholics alone. He should only add one word as to the manner and language of the petitioners. It appeared to him, that the petition was drawn up just as it ought to be, in a simple and plain, but yet in a manly and perspicuous manner; it did not enter into the detail of the specific grievances of the petitioners, because they presumed those grievances to be too universally known; it made no mention of the loyalty and stedfast attachment of the English Catholics to the constitution, because of that the House was sufficiently informed, by the unerring test of long gild ample experience. He would not anticipate the debate on this important question, but should conclude by expressing his fullest confidence, that the House would no longer suffer the grievances of
863Lord Morpeth
 believed this motion was brought forward on some speculation-connected with Furnival's-inn. It would be inconvenient to remove the sittings of the commissioners from where they had always been held.Mr. Alderman Wood
 was astonished at the Opposition which this motion had received, since it was admitted that at present the commissioners had not proper accommodation.Mr. Courtenay
 said, if the city did not give the piece of ground they had offered, then it would be proper to send the subject to a committee. At present he objected to the motion.Mr. Wilson
 showed the present system to be very defective altogether, but could not think it would be an advantage to transfer the sittings of the commissioners to Furnival's-inn.Mr. Harvey
 said, that should the chancellor of the exchequer continue to oppose the motion for the appointment of a committee, he hoped he would experience a disappointment similar to that felt by ministers when left in a minority two evenings ago.Mr. C. Calvert
 conceived, that an equalization of the duty on coals would be an act of the greatest injustice, and that the owners of collieries were entitled to claim the protection of parliament. Nothing could be more narrow-minded than to lay a duty at this time on a material on which the manufactures of the country were so dependent. A tax on coals at the pit would be most impolitic.Mr. Davenport
 could not say that this declaration of the chancellor of the exchequer was satisfactory to him. Till he heard a declaration from government, expressing their opinion of the injustice of an equalization of this tax, and that they would not, under any circumstances, support a proposition for such an equalization, he would take every opportunity of exciting a discussion on the subject. He hoped the hon. member for the county of Durham, if he had any intention of moving for a committee, would state whether it was his intention to move for such a committee before Easter.Mr. Littleton
 stated that the numerous manufacturers whom he represented, were not able to bear the present taxes, and consequently were incapable of bearing additional duties. Whether a new or an amended law was in contemplation, he thought, in a financial view, the chancellor of the exchequer ought not to consent to any alteration of the inland coal duties, as it would not only severely affect his constituents, but prove very oppressive to other manufacturing counties.Mr. Littleton
[862861[860859 rose to present a petition from the English Catholics, praying for relief from certain grievous civil disabilities to which they were well known to be subject. The petition was signed by upwards of 10,300 persons, many of whom represented families, of the highest rank and antiquity in the kingdom. At the head of this list, which contained eleven peers and thirteen baronets—was his grace the duke of Norfolk, hereditary earl marshal of the kingdom. The statements in the petition had undergone such ample and frequent discussion, that the minds of members must be sufficiently informed as to them. The prayer was for the relief to which that House might think the petitioners highly and peculiarly entitled. He felt happy to be assured, that the general feeling on this question was fair, good, and candid. When he contemplated the memory of the great and good men in whose hands such a petition had been formerly placed, he acknowledged, with unaffected dismay, that he felt himself unfit for the task. It was natural also that he should feel diffident in coming forward as the advocate of a question, which for so long a time had had the support of that excellent man whose loss the House had so recently to deplore (the late Mr. Elliot)—a man whose whole life had been spent in the strict and able discharge of those high duties which his situation as a statesman and a senator had required, and who died, leaving the bright example of so many public and private virtues, among which his zeal and perseverance in behalf of his long-suffering fellow-countrymen stood eminently conspicuous. When this question had engaged the attention and employed the talents of such a man as Windham, and of so many other distinguished senators, from Elliot up to Burke and Savile, it was natural that he should be dismayed, at the consciousness of his inability to follow in their path, and to take upon himself the advocacy of a cause in which they had acquired such deserved celebrity. It was, however, a relief to him, that this subject would, he presumed, be brought forward, at an early period, by a right hon. mem-
[862861[860859Lord Nugent
 said, that whether or not any of the members for the city intended to bring the subject before the House, he did not know; but he himself should not shrink from the danger. The persons whom he represented had long been oppressed by this tax, and the apathy with which they bore it was astonishing. But if they had hitherto neglected their interests, he trusted they would now exert themselves to see justice done.Mr. Holme Sumner
 said, that at a time when the manufactures in almost every part of the kingdom were in a struggling condition, and the labourers almost reduced to beggary, it would be most impolitic to lay a tax on the coals employed in the manufacturing districts, under the idea of equalizing the duty: but he would willingly vote for the repeal of the tax altogether.Mr. Bennet
895 reminded the House that he had last session been the cause of a committee being appointed to inquire into the expediency of removing the sittings of bankrupt commissioners from Guildhall to some other place. All had not agreed that they ought to be removed, but no one had denied that there was not sufficient accommodation for them in Guildhall. He was of opinion that they might be advantageously removed to Furnival's-inn. He did not scruple to say that the savings which would arise from the change he proposed, would, in a few-years, cover the expense of providing a building fit in every respect, for the reception of the commissioners. He then moved, "That a Select Committee be appointed, to consider of a proper piece of ground for erecting a suitable building for holding the public and private meetings of the commissioners of bankruptcy, and for the transactions of all business in
895Mr. Wrottesley
 said, he had already stated that he thought this subject ought to be investigated in a committee. Whatever might be the opinion of members, it was but right that both parties should have a hearing. Those who petitioned against the existing duty, were confident that in a committee they would be able to prove its injustice and impolicy. He himself had no doubt that they would bring forward evidence to show, not only that the city of London, but that all the coast ought to be relieved from the tax. They would prove that this relief would cause a great increase in the coasting trade, and thus afford employment to a number of seamen —a consideration of the utmost importance in the present circumstances of the country. He hoped they would be able to prove before a committee, the justice and policy of taking off the duty altogether. In answer to the question put to him, he had only to say that the hon. member for Surrey had given notice of his intention to bring the subject before the House, and he did not know whether he would do so before Easter or not.Mr. Lambton
 thought the most advise-able mode of proceeding would be to have the subject investigated in a committee.Mr. Lambton
 thought the motion unnecessary, as the city of London had offered Blackwell-hall for the purpose.Mr. J. Smith
[864 said:—The petition presented by my noble friend is so important in all its bearings, and so peculiarly merits the deliberate consideration of parliament, that perhaps I may be excused if I venture to offer a few observations supplemental to those which have already been so eloquently pressed upon our attention. My noble friend has explicitly stated to the House the substance of the petition, and the tone and temper in which it is couched. The House will hear the petition read, and the signatures affixed to it;—in those signatures it will recognise names illustrious in the annals in our country—names so intimately blended, so closely mixed up as it were and identified, with the most brilliant periods of our history as instantly to recall to our recollection those who, by their counsels in peace and their achievements in war, have materially contributed to the renown and prosperity of Great Britain. In the individuals who now bear these names the House will as immediately recognize peaceful subjects of the state—debarred indeed from emulating the example, precluded from following the public career, of their fore-fathers; but nevertheless eminently characterised by their private virtues—individuals too, who, in spite of the severe privations and galling disabilities to which they are subjected, have, in times of turbulence and danger, maintained a steady and undeviating course, uniformly approving themselves faithful subjects to their sovereign, and zealously attached to the constitution of the state.—Well, therefore, may it be said, that the petitioners are entitled to the deliberate consideration of parliament; and I trust I shall not be thought presumptuous if, before I sit down, I earnestly and anxiously entreat hon. members, before they make up their minds as to the important question which this petition involves, diligently to re-examine, carefully to reconsider the history of those times which gave birth to the restrictions under which our Roman Catholic fellow subjects now labour—to weigh well the peculiar circumstances Under which they originated—the peculiar necessity under Which they were sanctioned, enacted, and subsequently perpetuated: if it shall appear that the necessity out of which they grew has altogether ceased, if it shall be established that the causes which impelled our an-
[864Dr. Phillimore
 expressed himself in favour of the equalization.Mr. Hart Davis
[858 said, that the corporation of London had not yet given any opinion on the question. It was the inhabitants of Westminster and of the Borough, who had held meetings and petioned on the subject. But the corporation would soon take the subject into consideration; and he had no doubt bat they would agree with their fellow citizens,
[858Mr. Alderman Waithman
 opposed the motion. The commissioners were, in his opinion, too numerous, and he could wish them reduced from seventy-two to six or or eight. The want of accommodation of which they complained might be in part removed by themselves, if they would appoint different hours for the meetings of creditors.Mr. Alderman Waithman
865 rose, he said, not to
865Mr. W. Smith
[896 condemned the system of giving one part of the country an exemption at the expense of the rest. Not long ago, for the sake of a few counties interested in rock salt, a great portion of the country was subjected to considerable sacrifices. In like manner, the iron manufacturers now wished to enjoy an im-
[896Sir C. Burrell
 said, if the measure of an equalization were carried into effect, it would be attended with the most ruinous consequences to the large establishments of Yorkshire and Gloucestershire.Mr. Cripps
897 said, it would be very unfair to subject those manufacturers which had grown up under the exemption, to a taxation on coal. But the manufacturers, while they opposed the imposition of a tax on themselves, did not wish the continuance of the tax on the districts on which it already operated. If, instead of contending for an equalization of the tax, these districts proposed the repeal of it, they would meet with very general support. There never was a tax imposed more at variance with all the principles of economical science. There were, therefore, the best reasons why the tax should not exist at all. But an equalization would
897Mr. Philips
ss contended, that the object of the inland manufacturers, judging from their petitions, was, that there should be no alteration in the duty at all. He maintained that a duty of 1ssMr. Alderman Wood
 hoped that some legislative enactment would be made on the subject.Colonel Barry
 deprecated discussion on this subject at present. He thought that the petition, although it only prayed for the amendment of the law, implied a reflection on the committee. Fifteen gentlemen, sitting on oath, had come to a decision, and it was not fit that that decision should be questioned. It was at present inconvenient to discuss the propriety of amending the law, and it was at all events unnecessary, as the House had ordered the minutes, and notice had been given of a motion to amend the act.Mr. Wynn
 said the hon. member for Durham had intimated, early in the session, that he intended to bring in a bill on this subject. He wished to know when it was proposed to carry this intention into execution.Mr. E. Littleton
 said, he held in his hands petitions from several parishes in Staffordshire, praying that no alteration might take place on the duty on coal. He would enter into no discussion on the subject, as he was quite satisfied with the declaration of the chancellor of this exchequer last night, that he would oppose any motion for a committee.Mr. E. Littleton
 presented a petition from Thomas Spring Rice, esq. the unsuccessful petitioner, against the return of the sitting member for the city of Limerick. He believed there was but one feeling in the House as to the hardship of the petitioner's case. The petitioner, however, did not now come forward with any expectation of redress, but to draw the attention of the House to the defective state of the existing law.Mr. Abercromby
 disclaimed all intention of making any illiberal remarks on the members of the committee. The tendency of his observations was, to amend the law.Mr. Abercromby
 said, it was perfectly competent to any member, on an occasion like the present, to discuss any subject in the body of the petition, or any statement made by the member who presented it. This was a question of the greatest importance to many parts of the country, and the constituents of many members were deeply interested in it. These members would not do their duty to their constituents if they did not second their wishes. The hon. member for Staffordshire had done his duty to his constituents —he had raised a cry against the measure of an equalization, by which, according to him, the country would be ruined. His "country" consisted of a few ironmongers, who naturally enough wished to remain exempted from a tax which pressed' heavily on others. But, whatever might be the case with respect to the iron manufacturers, the poor of the county of Stafford, so far from being injured by an equalization, would be greatly benefited by it. They would obtain coals cheaper in consequence of the equalization, as there would then be a free market.Mr. Lambton
 said, he had not yet communicated with his constituents on the subject; but the member for Surrey had given notice of his intention to propose a bill.Mr. Lambton
 said, there were but two questions to be considered; one, whether the petitions should be brought up; the other, whether they should be laid on the table. If gentlemen did not mean to object to either of these stages, he thought it was irregular to enter into discussion on the subject.Mr. Barham
 said, he should oppose the measure of going into a committee. What ground was there for going into a committee? The tax was imposed under ancient acts of parliament, and the citizens of London had acquired and rented their properties with the knowledge of this burthen.Mr. Dickinson
 wished to ask the noble lord opposite whether any resolution had been come to regarding the oath to be taken by officers on half-pay, at the time of receiving their half-pay?Mr. Lyttelton 
 said, the answer of the noble lord was entirely satisfactory.Mr. Lyttelton
 was free to admit the excessive hardship of the petitioner's case; but there was no evidence before the committee that the poll-books were genuine, and though the petitioner requested that the committee would apply to adjourn for ten days, to enable him to procure witnesses from Ireland, yet the committee felt, that in yielding to this request they would have done injustice to the sitting members, who had witnesses in London at a great expense.Mr. Sturges Bourne
[898 knew not whether redress could be given to the petitioner; but it became him to say, that provision should be made to prevent a recurrence of such a case in future. The act said, that a copy of the poll, verified by the clerk of the peace, and deposited among
[898Sir John Newport
899 said, he had not been able to give a satisfactory answer last session to a similar question from the hon. gentleman; but he now had it in his power to tell the hon. member, that it had
899Lord Palmerston
907 having moved the order of the day for resuming the adjourned debate upon the amendment proposed [26th February, See p. 712] to be made to the question, "That Mr. Speaker do issue his warrant to the cleric of the crown, to make out a new writ for the electing of a Burgess to serve in this pre sent Parliament for the Borough of Penryn in the room of Henry Swann, esq. whose election has been determined to be void;" which amendment was, to leave out from the word "do" to the end of the
907The Chancellor of the Exchequer
911l[910lllllllll909llllll[908 began by declaring, that he had no connexion whatever with the committee whose report suggested to him the propriety of the motion with which he meant to conclude, nor with Penryn itself, nor with any of the parties concerned in the recent election. But he felt it his duty as a member of parliament to submit the case to the judgment of the House, leaving it to its own discretion to determine, as to its sense of justice might seem meet, upon a full consideration of all the merits of the question. The minutes of evidence taken before the committee were in the hands of the members, and they presented such a view of the practices which prevailed in this borough, that he thought it impossible for the House, consistently, to abstain from some special proceeding upon the subject. The House was called upon to consider, not only the bribery and general corruption which the evidence disclosed as to the late election, and the inconsistencies in that evidence, but the understanding which prevailed as to the usually corrupt habits in this borough. In defence, indeed, of the rights of their fellow subjects, the House was bound to take this case into its serious consideration. He had taken an abstract of the evidence as it appeared in the minutes upon the table, in order to show the grounds upon which he proposed to proceed. The first witness called for the petitioner was Henry Carter, who deposed, that Mr. Swann said to him that he expected that the witness wanted money as well as the rest—that accordingly, Mr. Swann offered witness a five pound note, which was afterwards received by witness's wife, telling him that he should have five pounds more after the election, adding, that sir C. Hawkins would be answerable to pay the witness ten pounds more, if he (sir C. H.) were brought in, making on the whole twenty pounds. This witness further stated, that he voted for Mr. Swann, but not for sir C. Hawkins. It was but justice to state, that this witness prevaricated very much in the course of his cross-examination. The next witness examined was Thomas Rosman, who de-
911l[910lllllllll909llllll[908Sir Charles Burrell
 begged to suggest that this motion could hardly be received as an amendment on the motion for a new writ. The universal practice in such cases had been, to move that the Speaker should not issue his writ till a certain day, and thus put off the proceeding, from time to time, till a decision had been come to on the merits of the case.The Speaker
 felt obliged to the Speaker for setting him. right, and the amendment being withdrawn, he proposed another amendment to the question, by adding the words "not issue his Warrant to the Clerk of the Crown, to make out a new Writ for the electing of a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Penryn, in the room of Henry Swann, esq. whose Election has been determined to be void, before this day month."Sir C. Burrell
[912 said, he felt great difficulty in rising to discuss this question, as he must confess that he had not been able to pay that close attention to the subject which it deserved from its importance, not only to the character of many individuals, but to the character of the House itself. He, however, could find in the statement of the hon. baronet nothing that ought to induce the House to alter the constitution of the borough in question, by throwing it open to those who had not heretofore enjoyed the right of voting. It had undoubtedly been shown, that several instances of bribery had occurred, but nothing had been proved that went so far to inculpate the great body of the electors, as to justify a measure of such severity. In a case where the punishment must fall on the innocent as well as the guilty, the House ought to pause before they decided on taking the course which had
[912The Chancellor of the Exchequer
[914913prima facie said, he had listened with some attention to the few arguments which the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down had employed in the course of his speech. By so doing, he had discovered that the right hon. gentleman had entered into reasonings which were, in their tendency, of much greater importance than the original question it-self. That question, however, was one of the most important questions that could come before them; and, in the present temper of the country, was rendered more important than ever, inasmuch as it was necessary to show the disposition of the House with zeal and vigour, where such corruptions as had been just produced were brought before it. He was therefore sorry to hear the words gossipping and tittle-tattle applied to facts which were so well substantiated, because they were not the words which a minister of the crown ought to apply to such heinous breaches of the constitution as had been reported to the House. He should almost suppose that the chancellor of the exchequer had not heard the speech of the hon. baronet as be had so completely mistaken its tendency and bearing. The hon. baronet had not talked of disfranchising the borough; be had only told them that there was a [914913prima facieSir James Mackintosh
 was of opinion, as the first committee had acted under the sacred obligation of an oath, no second committee should be appointed, as if to try the merits of their decision. A general impression seemed to prevail in the committee of the intended disfranchisement of Penryn; but he had given his opinion to those who spoke to him on the subject, that there were not sufficient proof's of general corruption to authorize any proceeding to such an extremity; and that opinion he did not now see any reason to alter.Mr. A. Wright
915 said, he considered the question of considerable importance, inasmuch as it showed the practices which were only too common in many boroughs. He would go so far as to suspend the issuing of the writ; and if the borough were found guilty of the practices imputed to it, he would vote for merging the right of suffrage in, the neighbouring hundreds. He wag less inclined than many members of the House to support the cause of reform, because, though he saw the evils which, existed in the pre-
915The Hon. F. Douglas
ll917llllmutato nominespeciosa verbis, re inania said, he could not partake in the virtuous indignation displayed by the House on the present question, because he had long been aware, that the practices which had called it forth were "as notorious as the sun at noon-day." When he recollected that, on one of the king's ministers being accused of trafficking in seats in parliament, the accusation was met and stopped by this declaration, he did not see what right the House had to assume so much of the pride of virtue upon this occasion. It was hard to say, and it would be still more hard to get any man in that House to believe, that the other boroughs were more immaculate than the borough of Penryn; and, therefore, when he heard such loud vaunts about purity of election, privileges of parliament, breaches of those privileges, and so forth, he looked upon them as nothing more than gaudy topics of declamation—ll917llllmutato nominespeciosa verbis, re inaniaSir F. Burdett
919[918 said, that he would not yield to any man, not even to the hon. baronet, in zeal for his favourite cause of parlia-
919[918Mr. Brand
 said, he had no objection to a short postponement of the motion for issuing a writ, but he should object to the proposed mode of inquiry.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that although no friend to wild reform, he considered the transfer of the elective franchise from such corrupt boroughs as Penryn, to towns like Manchester or Leeds, the most salutary reform which the House could adopt, or the country with a view to its own good expect, and he should therefore vote for inquiry.Mr. Beaumont
, of Galway, said, that his principal objection to the motion was, that it tended to a parliamentary reform of the worst species. He was more disposed to the proposal of the hon. baronet, that if any inquiry was necessary, it should be a general one. He thought that no member who had ever voted against parliamentary reform could vote for further inquiry into this case. No general corruption had been proved against the borough, and it was unjust to punish the many for the transgressions of the few.Mr. Martin
[920 thought the proposed inquiry by a committee contrary to all parliamentary practice. He agreed, that where a gross case of corruption had been made out, disfranchisement and transference was the most unexceptionable and practicable mode of reform. It had been tried with success many years ago by Mr. Pitt, in the cases of Shoreham and Ayles-bury; but they were clearly distinguishable from the case now before the House; here the committee had laid no ground whatever for any ulterior step, and the House could not proceed therefore in the face of the minutes. At the same time he was net disposed to exclude all remedy, fey granting the writ; and though the proposed delay was rather too long, he should not object to that part of the motion He was by no means opposed to a
[920Mr. Bankes
921functus officio argued, that if the former committee were 921functus officioSir John Newport
ll, as one of the members of the committee, begged to observe, that proof of general corruption in the borough was given; it was sworn that it had been the general practice to give a breakfast, and to present each of the electors present with 24llMr. Carew
l923[922 referred to the case of the county of Hants, as an authority for suspending the writ at present. It was true, that it had not been formally suspended, but no motion had been made for it until after the minutes had been printed, eleven days after the report of the special committee had been made. The question now was, whether the House should continue to suspend the writ for Penryn; and if he had thought that no grounds had been laid for further inquiry, he should undoubtedly dissent from the motion for suspending the writ. He saw many matters in the evidence already printed, requiring further investigation; but in the first place, it was the strong impression of many members of the committee that the subject should not here be closed. It appeared beyond question, that meetings had been held, at which resolutions were agreed to, and in consequence of which, a candidate had gone down; and if bribery and other corrupt practices could act be brought home to the mem-
l923[922Mr. Wynn
 complained that the hon. member had misrepresented him, in saying he had applied his remarks to every member of the House; his statement was, that the persons accused might turn round on the members of "every other rotten borough," and make the same charge: and if the hon. member asserted he had made use of any other term, he asserted what was false.Sir F. Burdett
 said, he had understood the observations of the hon. baronet to take a much wider range, and to convey a general censure on members of that House, more particularly those representing boroughs.Mr. Wynn
 entreated the hon. member and the hon. baronet to abstain from any allusions calculated to excite irritation during the discussion of the subject before the House.Mr. V. Blake
 wished to know if the hon. baronet intended that his observation should extend to the borough of South-wark? If so, it was most false and calumnious.Mr. C. Calvert
 thought it very hard to be thus called upon after his former explanation; which he repeated.Sir F. Burdett
 observed, that his hon. colleague might have been sure, had the hon. baronet's observation applied to Southwark, that he (sir R. Wilson) would not have allowed it to pass without observation [a laugh]. He so far agreed with the hon. baronet, that he hoped reform would not be confined to Penryn, but that it would be extended to the correction of those abuses which were known so generally to exist; but he trusted with the hon. member for Hertfordshire, that the present opportunity of commencing that reform would not be neglected.Sir R. Wilson
[924 said, he had no objection
[924Sir C. Burrell
 also observed, that the alteration of the term to a fortnight removed his objections to the original motion.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
llll[926lll925l said, that he did not anticipate any objection to the arrangement he was about to propose, and he hoped, at that late hour, no detailed discussion would take place. The committee was well aware, that by the practice of the exchequer, the revenue received for the purposes of the consolidated fund accumulated till the end of the quarter, and those sums had not been made applicable to the public service, but the Bank had had the advantage of the interest on them. The accumulations of the sums thus received for the consolidated fund, which were not applicable at present, unless to the payment of the interest of the public debt, the sinking fund, and the civil list, he proposed to apply to the public service, till required for their original purpose. It was evident that large sums of money came daily into the exchequer, and were at present inapplicable to any public service until the close of the quarter The interest on these sums had been lost to the public, and had proved a source of emolument only to the Bank of England. The simple proposal, therefore which he had to submit to the House was, that the public should have the benefit, instead of the Bank, of those accumulations. The sum to be thus applied, however, he should propose to be limited to a definite amount, namely, 6,000,00llll[926lll925lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
ss[928║ll gave the hon. gentleman credit for not having intentionally misstated any thing in his speech, but he certainly had mistaken several points. The hon. gentleman, in the first place, had said that the produce of the revenue would be exhausted by the 5th of April; but the hon. gentleman must have forgotten entirely, that a great part of the expenditure of the quarter had been provided for from the produce of the past year. In every year there were sums of money remaining from the supplies of the previous year. This had been the case in 1818, and it was the case. in the present year. The current revenue of last year had not been required to be issued for the public service till March, the supplies voted in the preceding year answering the expenditure till that time. With respect to the amount of the unfunded debt, the hon. gentleman was right in stating it at about 48,000,000ss[928║llThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
ll —The six millions which we are to take from the Exchequer are not forthcoming at the beginning of the quarter. It is an accruing, a growing fund. We take the money as fast as it comes in; but we cannot, at the commencement of a quarter, say, that we save the interest on 6,000,000llThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
ll said, that when, some years ago, the hon. gentleman adverted to a plan of this kind, he did not oppose the principle, but merely stated, that it could not be carried into effect, without breaking faith with the Bank. He believed the new system would be advantageous in a very material degree; and certainly the Bank were making considerable sacrifices. The country stood in a much better situation than in Mr. Perceval's time. They were now about to take six millions for seven; whereas, in the former period, Mr. Perceval took 5,000,000llThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
933 hoped the secret committee would let the country know its real situation. His right hon. friend had talked of severe measures. If such were necessary; if there were any unsound parts in our financial system, the chancellor of the exchequer ought to let the
933Mr. Protheroe
[906905[904 said: —In presenting to the House a petition from Stockton, &c. which entreats us to take into our earliest consideration the state of the criminal code, I cannot but reflect, with unmingled satisfaction, that this prayer has already been complied with; and that the numerous petitions on this subject, which are preparing in every part of the kingdom, might, without impropriety, be converted into addresses of thanks and congratulation. I am convinced that the decision of a former night has been hailed with unanimous exultation throughout the country; and that the people have recognised the wisdom and ratified judgment of their representatives. They will rejoice that this momentous question, so closely inter-woven national morals, and consequently with our national happiness, has been referred to an enlightened committee, which will conduct its inquiries not only without prejudice and without preci-
[906905[904Mr. Sinclair
[930lll929lsss thought the statement of the hon. gentleman had been by no means answered. The right hon. gentleman had told them, that the current year only began in March, and that the sum requisite before that time would be found from some other quarter; but if this was the case, a sum of money equal to six weeks expenditure, more than any gentleman in the House was aware of, had been granted in the last session. As to the probability that Exchequer bills would be at a discount, the fluctuations in the price of public securities were so great, that it was impossible to say what might be their value at any future time, however near. Exchequer bills had been at 20[930lll929lsssMr. Tierney
 —The right hon. gentleman forgets one species of severity to which I alluded, I mean the severity of retrenchment. The absence of that severity presses hard on the people, who are to pay, but is never thought of by those who are in the habit of receiving.Mr. Tierney
 presented a petition from Mr. Crawshay, of Merthyr, in Glamorganshire, against the imposition of any general tax on coal. He stated that the petitioner was the largest individual ironmaster in the empire, or perhaps in the world, and that from the quantity of capital he had invested on the faith of the existing laws, he was entitled to consideration from the House. The petition stated many of the reasons which showed the impolicy of the proposed measure, in which he (Mr. E.) concurred. From the variety in the quality, and consequently in the value of coal, in the facility of digging it, and the expense of carriage from the pits, no general tax on its production could by possibility be equal. He urged the House to oppose the proposition for a general inland tax on coal, as a measure unjust in principle, and as particularly ruinous in its effects in the present state of the manufacturing and agricultural interests of the kingdom.Mr. Edwards
llllll927ll complained, that the 9th of March had arrived before any thing had been done to explain and settle the finances of the year. The six millions mentioned by the right hon. gentleman as being partly intended to cover arrears, were now sunk to 2,700,000llllll927llMr. Maberly
llll.l[932ll was glad, that these balances would now be available for the public service. For the last four years, there were generally 6,000,000llll.l[932llMr. Grenfell
l —The average balance is 7,000,000lMr. Grenfell
l931 said, that with respect to the plan now under consideration, the right hon. gentleman had made it a reproach to ministers, that they had not sooner made the Bank balances available for the purposes of the government. It was right to adopt that plan at present; but he denied that any advantage would
l931Mr. Huskisson
 informed the House, that the Committee appointed to try the merits of the Barn-staple Election, had determined, "That sir Manasseh Masseh Lopes, bart., is not duly elected a burgess to serve in this present parliament for the said borough: that Francis Molineux Ommanney, esq. is duly elected a burgess to serve in this present parliament for the said borough: that the last election for the said borough, so far as relates to the said sir Manasseh Masseh Lopes is void: that the said petition did not appear to the committee to be frivolous or vexatious: that the opposition to the said petition did not appear to the committee to be frivolous or vexatious."Lord Clive
 also informed the House, that the Committee had come to the following Resolutions:Lord Clive
935 said, it was the intention of the attorney-general to move for the appointment of a committee to consider this subject with all the petitions concerning it which had been received by the House: and that it never was his object to propose the renewal of the law alluded to in its present state. The attorney-general, he was enabled to say, concurred fully in the opinion just expressed by his learned friend as to the justice and necessity of preserving the principle of the Insolvent act. This, indeed, he found to be the impression of all men of good feeling and sound intellect. All that appeared to be looked for by reflecting men on all sides was, the correction of the deficiencies which were understood to belong to the law in its present shape. Upon an investigation of these deficiencies before a committee, and upon the introduction of any amendments required, he had no doubt that the law would be found to operate with due regard to the fair claims
935The Solicitor General
l[936 observed, that the hon. baronet was completely misinformed with regard to the clerk of the court, who, so far from being the universal, was only the provisional assignee, of the debtors, to which place he was appointed by the learned serjeant who presided in that court, with a view to take care of any property which might be surrendered by, or found in the possession of, any debtors at the time of their release. But the moment the creditors of any debtor appointed an assignee, such property was given up to them by this provi-
l[936The Attorney General
947[946 admitted that the present system was liable to many objections; but maintained, that the demoralization (to adopt a word from the hon. mover) would be ten times as great after this bill passed as before it. It was said, that moral feeling and reduced price were to diminish the commission of offences against the game laws; but was it to be supposed that the feelings of the higher orders, and their disgust at crime, would have any operation upon the lower ranks of society? and as to the question of price, it was not possible that the breeder of game could bring it to market at so cheap a rate as the stealer. The thief would always be able to undersell the honest man; so that this part of the project was both wild and absurd. On a former occasion he had stated that he neither agreed with the premises nor in the conclusion of the hon. member for Hertfordshire; and it was a gross contradiction to give a man a right to sell game without communicating to him the right to kill. What common sense was there in such a proposal? There were two or three modes of dealing with the game laws that were quite intelligible, and the first and simplest was, no doubt, repealing them altogether; but what would be the consequence of such a proceeding? It would, as had been said, drive the country-gentlemen to London— it would prevent them from residing on their property, and the injury would be incalculable. The residence of gentlemen on their estates bad, more than any thing else, contributed to the prosperity of the nation, and had enabled her to hold her head higher among the kingdoms of Europe; and if that were checked, if any disgust were excited by the abolition of laudable country amusements, the most dreadful results might ensue. The country would be impoverished, and that indeed would end in the total demoralization of the inhabitants of the provinces. Undoubtedly it was an effectual way to put an end to theft, to put an end to property; and if the game laws were totally abolished, poaching would of course be
947[946Mr. Bankes
961§[960959lex-officio[958 said, the hon. gentleman had certainly brought forward charges of* a most serious nature against some men, who had hitherto stood as high in character, as any man in the country. The hon. gentleman attacked by his statement the solicitor of the excise—and he also attacked by that statement the humble individual who had then the honour to address the House—and not only them, but he had attacked the boards of excise and customs—accusing all of them with bringing on prosecutions for the purpose of obtaining costs, and not for the purpose of protecting the revenue. In the court of exchequer he had himself been for the last 5 years, and it had been his fortune to conduct almost all the prosecutions which had been commenced there. He would say to the hon. gentleman,—if he meant to insinuate against him either that he had advised the board out of court, or in that court, to bring any action for the sake of costs, or that he ever considered any thing in the shape of costs, either to himself or to any other person, or was governed by any other view than to suppress the abominable system of smuggling to protect the revenue and the fair trader he took leave to state, in the face of his country and his God, whom he called to witness, that he (the hon. gentleman) stated that which was not true—These were not charges which ought to be lightly brought forward, especially when it was considered that they were not confined to the place where they were brought for-ward, but went out, as they ought, to the whole country. They ought not to be lightly made by a gentleman, because he happened to have been himself legally employed in some of the cases. In some parts of his speech the hon. gentleman had certainly astonished him. He was a professional man—and yet he had stated, that proceedings in a court of justice to recover what was due to the crown ought not to be carried on in a court of record, and before a British jury, but before magistrates in private [no, no! from Mr. D. Harvey.] He had understood the hon.
961§[960959lex-officio[958The Attorney General
l967[966l contended, that there were no grounds laid before the House to induce it to assent to the motion of the hon. gentleman. He maintained that the hon. gentleman who made the motion had cast an imputation on the manner in which prosecutions were conducted by his hon. and learned friend. He had distinctly stated, that even when cases got into the court of Exchequer, they were conducted there not with a view to the penalties, but to the accumulation of costs. With respect, therefore, to the warmth displayed by his hon. and learned friend in repelling the accusation with which the mover had charged him, he could not but consider it as justifiable and highly proper, particularly as the solicitors of the excise were branded with an imputation disparaging to their character. The offers of composition never came from the Jaw officers of the Crown, but were always made by the defendants. The right hon. gentleman certainly mistook the tendency of the arguments of his hon. and learned friend, whose entire speech was against the motion. He had come unprepared on this question to the House, and did not, therefore, expect to have the honour of addressing it this night; but he would, however, endeavour to follow the right hon. gentleman in relation to the three cases which he had enumerated. The first was, that of an individual who lent 1,000l967[966lThe Solicitor General
 alluded to a second proceeding which had been instituted against a house in trade, of which he said the worthy alderman was a partner.The Attorney General
l maintained that in neither of the cases was there any ground for impugning the present system. One of them had been abandoned by the commissioners; because no proof could be adduced; and in the other the penalty of 100lThe Solicitor General
 expressed his astonishment that the right hon. gentleman should think that there were no grounds for the motion, merely because the facts stated had been disputed. He had listened to all the arguments which had been brought forward, and thought that the only way of getting rid of suspicion on the part of the public would be to grant the motion. If the information sought for on the present occasion was not afforded, the public would suspect that there was some improper motive for withholding it. In order to obviate one difficulty which had been raised, he would suggest that the cases might be given without the names of the persons concerned in them. In the present times he considered every sixpence as of importance to the public, and if a cheaper way of conducting prosecutions could be shown than that which was now adopted, he conceived that consideration alone would be a sufficient ground for the motion.Mr. Williams
[970 thought it would have been unnecessary in him to have addressed the House, considering the very satisfactory manner in which the case had been argued by his two hon. and learned friends, but he could not help saying a few words because the last case mentioned by the hon. gentleman had come under his cognizance as one of the lords of the treasury. That case had no connexion with the present question, as it had not been in the exchequer, but had only been an act of the excise officers, by order of the treasury, in consequence of an apprehension that the manufacturer defrauded the revenue. His ruin had been occasioned by his not having obtained a legal protection for his manufacture. The case was certainly one which he extremely lamented; but it had unfortunately happened that this individual did not previously apprize the excise of the nature of his manufacture, and in the process it was necessary that he should manufacture glass, which involved an infringement of the excise laws. The excise in the whole transaction had confined themselves strictly to the power with
[970The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that undoubtedly great abuses had taken place under the Insolvent acts, but yet he believed that those abuses were not so considerable as some gentlemen appeared to think. He was of opinion, that the law required amendment, while he was satisfied that its principle ought to be preserved. He agreed as to the propriety of postponing all discussion upon this subject until the proposed committee should have made its report, and he hoped and trusted that the consequence of that report would be the adoption of a measure equally calculated to secure the interest of the honest creditor, and to save the honest but unfortunate debtor from un-merited suffering.Mr. George Lamb
957l[956955l[954llllllll953lllllll[952ll951 rose to move for certain returns relative to Excise Informations filed in the Court of Exchequer. Since he had been in the House, he had understood that an hon. and learned gentleman on the other side meant to oppose his motion. Had he known of this intention before, he should certainly have felt disinclined to proceed; but the suggestions of very many of his constituents, and his own sense of duty, urged him to pursue the course he had taken. He would entreat the attention of the House, while he offered a few remarks, which, after what he had just stated, he should submit with the utmost deference and reluctance. The notice which he gave of his motion was "for a return of the total number of informations filed in the Court of Exchequer, under the Customs and Excise laws, between the 1st January, 1812, and the 1st January, 1819, distinguishing each year [The hon. member here observed, that in consequence of its having been suggested from the opposite side, that such returns would occupy very considerable time, employ a great number of clerks, and be attended with much expense, he would limit his inquiry to one year only, that being sufficient for the principle of his observations; he then continued]; as also for a return of the results of such informations, distinguishing those settled by verdicts from those settled by compositions; and also of the expenses attendant on such informations." His most material object was, to show, that very large and unwarrantable expenses were incurred, and charged upon the revenue, by the constant recourse had to informations of the kind alluded to; his next object, to show that the solicitors of the customs and excise, by constantly resorting to this species of information, entailed the most heavy and enormous expenses on those who were brought into court; and his third object was, to prove that the general system of proceeding in these cases was the cause
957l[956955l[954llllllll953lllllll[952ll951Mr. D. W. Harvey
971 replied. He observed, that the attorney-general had said, that not one case in a hundred terminated favourably for the defendant. He would
971Mr. D. W. Harvey
965lll[964lllll said, that the angry tone in which his hon. and learned friend had met the clear and perspicuous statement of the hon. gentleman behind him, he supposed was meant as a warning to all who had any complaint to make of public grievances or abuses in that House, to be measured in their language, and to beware of any expression that might by any ingenuity or sophistry, be tortured into a personal aspersion on gentlemen opposite. He could not see that any aspersion had been uttered on this occasion, except it might be on persons connected with the board of excise. On the contrary, the hon. gentleman behind him had said, that the hon. and learned gentleman had always discharged his duty in a manner which was highly creditable to him. For his own part, there was no difficulty in his saying, that there was no man at the bar for whom he had more respect than for his hon. and learned friend opposite. He had listened with great jealousy to the statement of the hon. gentleman, and he conceived that every one ought to listen to such statements with jealousy, because they were exparte; and he had waited patiently to hear what answer would be made. He knew, burthened as the country was with taxes, that the revenue could not be supported without rigorous measures; and therefore he should not have listened to the attack made on the system, unless he had been convinced that it could be carried on without those severities which were complained of. The hon. gentleman who brought forward the motion had stated instances of great unnecessary expense and hardship to individuals, and not one of those cases had been contradicted or explained by his hon. and learned friend. The first case mentioned by the hon. gentleman was one of great hardship. A man pleads guilty, and offers first 10965lll[964lllllMr. Tierney
 presented a petition from certain inhabitants of Westminster against the renewal of the Insolvent Debtors act. This petition was, he said, signed by a number of respectable tradesmen, and entitled to attention. He did not, however, at all agree with the petitioners as to the propriety of repealing the act alluded to, while he fully concurred with them in thinking that that act required revision and amendment. He was decidedly of opinion that the principle of this law should be preserved; yet as the execution of that principle required that the court appointed to carry it into effect, should be generally sitting, it was desirable to provide, by every possible means, for the improvement of the machinery of that court, and especially to guard against any facility for the release or encouragement of fraudulent debtors. To these points the committee about to be proposed by his learned friend, the attorney-general, would, no doubt, direct its most diligent inquiry.Mr. Brougham
, adverting to what had been said by the hon. member for Carlisle, namely, that every one of the petitioners from Mary-le-bone parish, comprising between 14 and 1500 persons, had suffered from the operation of the act, observed, that the hon. baronet must be under a mistake, as a vast number of the signatures to that petition were from persons who were not at all in trade.Mr. Brougham
 said, that the petition alluded to was signed by many shopkeepers and tradesmen, and that every one of a deputation which had called upon him on the subject, had assured him that he had suffered some fraud through the insolvent acts. But he could go farther, and say that he had never conversed with a man of property upon the subject, who had not complained of being defrauded by these acts. Debtors had indeed become so cavalier in consequence of these acts, that when pressed by any creditor for payment, nothing was so common as to say, "I'll give you a bill at three months on lord Redesdale." But the execution of this law was almost as exceptionable as its provisions. What would the House think of the clerk of the court for carrying this law into effect, being appointed the universal assignee, or treasurer of the debtors released, and of no dividend, as he understood, having ever been paid to any creditors.Sir James Graham
[934 presented a petition, signed by 1,500 of the principal shop-
[934Sir James Graham
949[948 reminded the House, that on a former occasion, when this question was agitated, it Was the opinion of a committee of that House, that it would be much more advantageous to the country in general as well as to sportsmen, that the existing game laws should be done away with altogether. The hon. gentleman who had just down had said, that the bill he was considering was complained of only by poachers; but he must be singularly ignorant of the general feeling prevailing throughout the country, of the marked dislike entertained for those laws collectively and individually, by all classes, if he supposed that that dislike and disgust were confined to one set of men only.
949[948Mr. Curwen
963lllll[962 said, he had never in his life risen to offer his sentiments with greater diffidence and reluctance than on the present occasion. He had known the hon. and learned gentleman many years, and he believed his character was composed of the qualities of kindness and humanity, and that he had individually every disposition to soften the rigours of the system his duty required of him to preside over. Most sorry therefore should he be if any thing which might fall from him could be construed into a reflection upon the conduct of the hon. and learned gentleman. Nothing could be further from his mind, and he thought that the intention of the mover of the present motion was also much mistaken when it was so interpreted. The hon. and learned gentleman had vindicated himself unnecessarily, without answering one of the arguments, or noticing one of the cases brought forward against the system as it now existed. If he understood the complaint at all, it was against the system, yet the only answer given was, that the system was such as he had found it. The attention of the House was now turned to the state of the penal laws and the relief of insolvent debtors, the present question embraced a part of the same system, and was equally deserving of consideration. The hon. and learned gentleman himself had given notice of a motion for the relief of insolvent debtors; he would ask, had the Crown any mercy upon its insolvents? Then why not soften the rigour of the law with respect to them also? So convinced had he been of the necessity of inquiry and revision, that he had himself prepared a motion of the same kind, without any knowledge of the intention of the mover of that before the House, to which he thought, without ten minutes speaking, the House would agree. The hon. and learned gentleman maintained that the subject suffered nothing, because such was the state of the law; but he could himself state another' case to show, that the law, or the practice required amendment. He would add, that a person might be dragged into the court of exchequer
963lllll[962Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, the facts, as stated by the hon. and learned gentleman were not correct.Mr. Alderman Waithman
ll said, he was sorry to interrupt the debate, but the hon. and learned gentleman was misstating the entire transaction. There were two different cases concerning him which the hon. and learned gentleman confounded. In the first a servant had brought into his house, at the request of a person from the Country, a piece of handkerchiefs, which was seized; and he, though he was in the commencement entirely ignorant of the introduction of that article into his premises, paid the penalty of 100llMr. Alderman Waithman
 wished, if a committee should be appointed, that there might be selected, for that purpose, some practical mercantile men, who were acquainted with the subject in all its details. He feared that if some such were not chosen, those who might constitute the committee would not have that sympathy for the situation of unfortunate creditors which the frauds they had experienced called for.Mr. Waithman
 felt himself bound to oppose the motion, from a conviction that it would be injurious to the individuals concerned to have their names disclosed, and equally injurious to the public by a great number of clerks being taken from their ordinary duties to draw up the returns. He was of opinion, that much more information would be derived if the hon. member would call for specific information on specific cases. It was quite impossible that the House should go into a formal examination of all the causes which the present motion called for.Mr. Lushington
lls[944free warrensroyal rights943**[942ratione soli941[940l939ratione soli[938, in rising, pursuant to his notice, to bring forward his motion for the amendment of the game laws, observed, that the subject was one of the highest importance, inasmuch as it was intimately connected with the interest, the happiness, and moral conduct of the lower orders of society. For the benefit of those members of the present parliament who were not members of the last, he would inform them, that in the year 1816, a report on this subject was made by a very numerous, intelligent, and industrious committee of that House, to the concluding passage of which he requested particular attention. The committee observed, that they would not, at a late period of the session, introduce to the House any measure, on a subject which had so great a variety of bearings; but they cherished sanguine expectations, that a bill, founded on the principles recognised by the common law of the land, that principle being, that the property of game was in the individual possessing the land where it was discovered, might be advantageously resorted to, by which the present system of the game laws might be improved, and the fore they came to the following resolution:— "That all game should be considered the property of the person on whose land such game should be found." He approved entirely of this principle; and he had long wished to bring forward a measure founded on the view of which the committee had professed their approbation. In order to show the efficacy of the plan which he should submit to their notice, it would be necessary for him to enter into some minute details on the subject, which he would however endeavour to make as concise as possible. He was afraid, nevertheless, that in spite of all his endeavours, he should not be
lls[944free warrensroyal rights943**[942ratione soli941[940l939ratione soli[938Mr. Brand
[950 said, he was as desirous as the hon. member for Corfe Castle, that the gentry of England should not be induced to leave their country residences, but it appeared to him that his hon. friend's bill was calculated to avert such an evil, since it gave to all owners of land, full, absolute, and undisturbed possession and enjoyment of it. How could this deter any gentleman from residing in the country? What was it that in reality preserved game? Not the game laws, but the liability to action for trespass. In place of this indirect mode of legislation, he wished to see a substantive measure that would go more directly to the object, by making the killing of game, without the permission of the proprietor, a substantive offence. It had been asked triumphantly, whether he who stole turnips or potatoes in a field, did not get them more cheaply than the person who grew and sold them? But he would ask, whether it was the person who stole, or the person who grew that supplied the market. The fair supposition was, that with respect to game, if the proposed measuse were adopted, it would be supplied by the proprietor of the ground, and not as now by the poacher. Did the hon. gentleman forget the great advantage which the man who procured an article by open, fair and honest means, had over him who procured it by means that were dishonest and illegal? or could he suppose that the latter would be able to stand up against the efforts of that industry which the public would encourage, and the law would protect? It had been asked whether they could get rid of a crime, by saying it was a crime? No doubt they could not; but was It not a most improper course of legislation to call those actions crimes which were not so in their own nature? There was no greater crime in selling a pheasant than in selling a chicken, and the laws which punished the one act while they permitted the other, ought not to continue, unless they were necessary to
[950Mr. F. Lewis
Summum jus, summa injuriœ969llll felt that the defence of the commissioners could not have fallen into better hands than those of the two hon. and learned gentlemen opposite; the one universally allowed to perform the arduous duties of his office with fidelity to the public, and kind attention to the defendants: and the other distinguished by his ingenuity and abilities. He was afraid, however, that the solicitor general was not long enough acquainted with the nature of the causes brought on in the court of exchequer to understand one half of the system he was defending. Of the three cases stated by the hon. mover, he knew nothing; but he would state other three within his own knowledge, and in doing this, he must say that he had always found in the treasury a strong disposition to grant every relief to sufferers. The first case was one in which the penalties were from 1,500Summum jus, summa injuriœ969llllMr. W. Smith
945 argued, that the hon. member would be deceived, if he supposed that his bill would have the effect of rendering the country more moral and less disposed to crime; on the contrary, he was well convinced that poaching, and all kinds of artifices to procure game,
945Sir John Shelley
[968 had yet to learn why the papers moved for should be refused, ft was stated on the other side, and particularly by the hon. and learned attor-
[968Sir M. W. Ridley
[974973 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill for the regulation of Mad-houses, and observed, that as this subject had been already several times before the House, he did not feel it necessary long to trespass upon its attention. It would be recollected, that some years ago, the report of a committee had been laid before the House, detailing such scenes of misery and wretchedness in mad-houses, as had perhaps never been paralleled; and after such an expose, it was the obvious duty of the House to follow up the report by the adoption of some legislative measure, calculated to put an end to the evils complained of. There was, however, no fault to be found with the conduct of that House; for it had done its duty, by repeatedly sending up a bill to the other House of parliament, which that House thought proper to reject. He believed it was not irregular to advert to the proceedings of the other House in a former parliament; and he could not forbear from remarking, that no reason was at any time publicly stated in that House for rejecting the bills alluded to. He was indeed at a loss to divine the grounds upon which such rejections took place; and as none were urged, it was the duty of the House to persist in its purpose of legislating, with a view to correct the enormous evils, which, upon full inquiry before a committee, were demonstrated to exist. Many of the evils described in the report of that committee had been removed or abated; but, too many of those evils still existed. The regulations desired were not generally adopted; and a proper system of regimen and control was not yet established. No effectual provisions, indeed, with a view to that establishment, had yet been enacted; for it appeared, that although no mad-houses could be legally opened, without a license from the college of physicians, that body was not in possession of funds to prosecute such as might violate the law. Under these circumstances, he proposed by the bill which he meant to bring in, that a general board of inspection for mad-houses should be appointed, and that the members of that board should be at liberty to visit such houses throughout the country at different and uncertain times, so as to ascertain the manner in which they were conducted, and to report any existing evil to the board, which should be invested with powers to enforce their correction. There was a provision in the existing law, that no lunatic should
[974973Mr. Wynn
l.l.l. remarked, that his hon. friend had said no more than what would turn out to be the fact, namely, that after all the boasting about the 6,000,000l.l.l.Mr. Tierney
l.l.l. conceived that the whole subject would be found to have been misstated or mistaken, as far as the advantages to be derived by the public were concerned. The fact was, that of these 6,000,000l.l.l.Mr. Maberly
975l.l. said, that the observations made on a former evening by the chancellor of the exchequer on the subject of the Bank balances, and his statements of what they were likely to produce to the public, had created strong impressions in and out of doors, and that those impressions had led to the greatest errors and delusions. He would appeal to the House, whether the conclusion which might have been fairly drawn from what the right hon. gentleman had said on the 2nd of February, and on last Friday, was not that 6,000,000975l.l.Mr. Grenfell
l. regretted that the hon. member had not delayed his remarks until the chancellor of the exchequer was in his place. For his own part, he had no hesitation in saying, that the 6,000,000l.Mr. Lushington
l said, that it might no doubt be necessary to apply a part of the ways and means of the year to the liquidation of the 3,000,000lMr. Huskisson
[976 expressed a desire to assimilate the proceedings in courts-martial in the array to those in courts-martial in the navy. In the latter service the sentence was declared immediately, and in open court; in the former it was referred to the inspection and consideration of the commander-in-chief, and was not in some cases declared till six months after the sitting of the court-martial. He thought it neither consistent with law or justice that such a practice should be allowed to continue. No man entertained a higher
[976Sir Isaac Coffin
 said, that when the proper time arrived, he trusted he could adduce satisfactory reasons for the existence of the present practice in military courts martial.Lord Palmerston
 Smith was accordingly called to the bar, and underwent a long examination In the course of the evening, Mr. Stuart Wortley gave notice, that if any part of the proceedings were published before their completion, he would bring the individual offending before the House for a breach of privilege. Mr. Carew Smith having in the course of his examination, delivered in several letters, the said letters were referred to a select committee to examine the same, and to select so much of the said letters as should appear to have material relation to the matter of the said complaint. Then Mr. Goold was examined; after which, the further hearing of the said complaint was deferred until to-morrow.Mr. Carew
977 said, that as it had fallen to his lot to present the petition on which the House was now about to institute an inquiry, it became his duty to put such introductory questions to the witnesses who might be called to the bar, as would serve to bring forward the facts as far as he had been made acquainted with them, and to connect the chain of evidence which it was in the power of the petitioner to offer. His object was to obtain truth, and that in the most explicit and unequivocal manner; but he; begged to say, that if he trespassed on the rules of the House,' or violated the laws of evidence, he hoped it would be ascribed, not to wilful error, but to his inexperience in such proceedings. He was convinced that no gentleman had come to the H6use to act the part of a judge without endeavouring to divest himself of previous impressions, and wishing to guide himself entirely by the evidence; but he could not conceal from himself that an unfair impression had been made on the minds of the House by untoward circumstances. They had nothing to do, generally speaking; with the abstract motives of petitioners, unless when they seemed likely to influence the truth of their statements. He did not conceive that anything which had been proved against the petitioner or his father should induce the House to relinquish the inquiry into an alleged public offence of the first magnitude. The time was now come for him to say, that neither the petitioner nor his father had any part in the fabrication of the matter of the charge; but that it rested entirely on the evidence of a gentleman; whose character stood as
977Sir R. Wilson
 presented a Petition from the Corporation of London complaining of the crowded state of Newgate.The Sheriffs
 stated, that the city did not so much complain of being obliged to maintain the criminals of Middlesex as well as of London, as of the crowded state of the gaol, which was now such, that 47 prisoners were under sentence of death, while there were only 15 cells to confine them in. It was also mentioned as a fact, which showed the shocking consequences of the crowded state of this gaol, that 16 persons convicted of an abominable crime, were all confined in one room. If any prisoner was Bent from that House, or any person of rank superior to the common prisoners, he was necessarily confined among the felons. The wish of the city was, to have the petition referred to the committee on gaols.Mr. Alderman Wood
[978 stated, that every possible means had been taken to place
[978Mr. Alderman Wood
 thought the only way was to call in Mr. T. W. Grady. He was accordingly called in, and thus examined by the Speaker.Mr. Wynn
 said, it was quite manifest that Mr. Grady's conduct proceeded from youth and inexperience. He considered Mr. Goold's conduct as he had always been accustomed to consider insults. It must be apparent to the House, that he was extremely inexperienced, and a youth of a weak character. He hoped, therefore, that they would regard with indulgence an indiscretion in which no contempt or breach of privilege had been contemplated.Sir R. Wilson
nem. con.[980 said, the question was not what indulgence the youth and inexperience of Mr. Grady might claim, but what
nem. con.[980Mr. Bankes
 stated, that he had no other witness to call in support of the petition, but the petitioner himself. As the petitioner, a young and inexperienced man, was necessarily much agitated by having fallen under the displeasure of the House, and by the apprehension of being sent to Newgate, he should move that the farther consideration of the matter of charge be adjourned to Monday.Sir R. Wilson
 asked, whether the hon. member, meant not to proceed in the examination of the petitioner till he was allowed to kick the other witnesses?Mr. Canning
 acknowledged that the petitioner had committed a great fault of which the House was obliged to take notice, though he hoped that a severe reprimand might have answered the ends of justice; but what he meant now to assert was, that he should not do justice to the public, to the House or to the petitioner; if he suffered the examination of the petitioner to proceed when he was in a state of agitation.Sir R. Wilson
 said, the petitioner had been committed to the custody of the Serjeant at arms to secure another witness against his outrage. The hon. member had assumed that he was also to be sent to Newgate, though no such proposition had been mentioned in his heating.Mr. Canning
 thought the House bound to declare and make known, that its witnesses should not be insulted. Those who with him had read the private letters in this case, would know the necessity of proceeding cautiously, and of showing the determination of the House to resent any attempt to violate its privileges in the person of its witnesses. He thought at the conclusion of the proceedings it might be advisable to pass some resolutions to that effect, for which there were not wanting precedents.Mr. Wynn
981 trusted the House would deal leniently with the offence of this young man. It was not to be forgotten that, though standing in the situation of a petitioner against a member of the House, he had heard grave facts stated against himself. It was to be remembered, too, that
981Mr. Peel
 said, that his opinion being that the petitioner would not give his evidence with self-possession while in custody, he should move, "That Thomas William Grady be now brought to the bar, in order to his being reprimanded and discharged."Lord C. Churchill
 and sir Robert Wilson concurred in the motion. Mr. S. Wortley and Mr. Courtenay objected to it, as unjust to Mr. Goold, and as not likely to render the witness more collected, or more fit to deliver his evidence.Mr. Lambton
 said, the case of Mr. Goold was very hard. He had been called over from Ireland to the great prejudice of his private business, and while delivering his evidence as a man of honour, he had been attacked by a young man with the grossest outrage. It was the duty of the House to alleviate the feelings Of Mr. Goold, and to protect him in the discharge of his duty.Mr. Grattan
 said, that nothing but the most absolute, urgent, and imperious necessity could justify the city of London in adopting the line of conduct which they had done. He could only suppose that the city had not any means to remedy the evil of which they complained; because, if they had, they never could have been reduced to the lamentable alternative, of forcing so disgusting a subject on the House. As the subject had been brought before them, it was their duty to attend to it. The plan of his hon. friend, the member for Bramber, appeared to him the most efficaciousMr. Brougham
 said, that one of the circumstances referred to was so disgraceful and disgusting that some immediate steps should be taken to remedy the evil. He suggested a special committee instead of a reference to the Committee on gaols.Mr. Wilberforce
111011091108 rose to second the motion. He said, that the grounds on which he might have troubled the House had been much narrowed by the speech of his noble friend: he should not therefore, enter into the detail of precedents which his noble friend had so ably examined, but state at once the general grounds on which he supported the motion. On former motions for reform, it had been a favourite argument to contrast the advantages of the present system with the dangers of a change. This argument had great weight with him when a practical good was opposed to a theoretical one; but when his noble friend proposed to touch nothing but what was as essentially bad in practice as it was erroneous in theory, this reasoning would not apply. The only question which could be raised on the disfranchisement of places convicted of corruption, was the abstract question of the property of the voters in their franchises. In his opinion, the word property did not apply. The privilege of voting was not property but a public trust, conferred for the benefit of the community at large—that trust which the voter delegated to his representative, had been delegated to him by the community at large. The nation had an interest, not only in every election, but in every vote. If the voter twisted his trust to the purpose of corruption, he forfeited his franchise; and if the majority of voters were so corrupted as to influence the whole return, the franchise or trust of that larger portion was as clearly forfeited, and should be transferred to some other place, which, from its size, wealth, and populousness, comprised the largest portion of the national interests [Hear, hear!]. He admitted all the evils of those itinerant demagogues, who went about the country and sought only the overthrow of that constitution which they pretended to reform; but the present motion would, if agreed to, have the effect of destroying the influence of such men, by placing the reform of abuses in hands from which a safe and effectual remedy might be expected. What could be a greater right than that of selecting a member of the legislature? and if that right was bartered, was it not proper that it should be forfeited? The member
111011091108Lord Normanby
1116norma 1115norma1114111311121111 rose, he said, at this early stage of the debate, for the purpose of submitting a few observations, with a view to direct the attention of the House to the real question which it was called upon to consider by the nature of the noble lord's motion. It was his wish that gentlemen, in discussing this question, should not allow themselves to travel into the unfathomable abyss of debate, to which party spirit or abstract theories might lead. The example of the noble mover would, no doubt, have its due weight with other gentlemen. That noble lord had, indeed, debated the question with a temper that was highly creditable to his judgment, and which naturally disposed his mind to make every practicable concession to the noble lord's wishes. In keeping aloof from the language and temper of the wild theorists who had lately agitated the country, the noble lord had pursued the course that was best calculated to conciliate the House and to promote his own object. Still, he must say, that the noble lord had sometimes fallen into the error of making an approach to those principles which the theorists whom he disavowed were forward to maintain. The noble lord had, indeed, dealt more in general topics of reform than was strictly consistent with the end which he had in view, or with the motions which he had brought forward; but still the noble lord's speech was, on the whole, of a moderate and conciliatory character. There was, at present, a peculiarly morbid sensibility upon the subject of reform prevailing in the country, and it seemed not at all probable that the proposition, of the noble lord would give any degree of satisfaction to those who were affected by that sensi-
1116norma 1115norma1114111311121111Lord Castlereagh
, in explanation, stated, that the only difficulty which would remain on the disfranchisement of Grampound would be, as to the manner in which the right of return should be disposed of. That the return should be transferred to another district, he should have no objection, in consideration of the peculiar circumstances of Cornwall and the character of its municipal government. But he could not accede to the establishment of any general principle upon such transfers, and he must reserve to himself the right of moving an amendment upon any proposition, as to the place of transfer, which might be brought forward by the noble mover.Lord Castlereagh
 expressed himself satisfied with the view of the subject which had been taken by the noble secretary for foreign affairs. He preferred the proposition of the bill recommended by the noble lord to the general propositions brought forward by the noble mover, because it was much more satisfactory to reason from particulars to generals, than from generals to particulars.Mr. Wynn
 wished to avoid future misconception, by stating, that he did not pledge himself to any particular mode of proceeding, nor was he pledged to the exclusion of the local principle, in the consideration of the transfer in all cases. He did, however, think from the number of boroughs in Cornwall, that the local principle did not there apply. Every distinct case should be canvassed on its own intrinsic merits.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that the bill professed to encourage fisheries and manufactures, and yet in it there was not one word about either. It was not however of the omissions, but of the contents of the bill that he complained. It had for a long time been the practice of Ireland to admit occult, partnerships, and wherever any ambiguities formerly occurred, they had been in so many recent instances pointed out and explained by decisions in courts of equity, that the practice in such partnerships was rendered quite clear and intelligible. He could not therefore see the utility of the worthy alderman's proposition.Mr. Leslie Foster
, that though these matters might be clear enough in Ireland, yet it did not follow that people in England were equally conversant in the decisions of Irish courts of equity. In the present state of Ireland, it was very desirable to encourage English capitalists, and he was therefore in favour of any explanatory measure which could have that tendency.Mr. W. Parnell
 said, that this was not a bill of regulation, but one which went at once to sweep away, by an unqualified repeal, whatever had grown systematic in a code of commercial law which was perfectly understood by the people. He had had great experience in the equity courts of Ireland, and he could assure the House that he had not observed any difficulty in the operation of the existing law. The worthy alderman had not pointed out the defects in the existing code. Had he done so, it was competent for him to propose a specific remedy, instead of which he called upon parliament to repeal the whole code.Mr. Plunkett
1124 replied, that he had stated, as he conceived, the real object of his bill, which was to remove the prevailing uncertainties respecting partnerships in the courts of law, which prevented, in a great degree, English capitalists embarking in Irish trade. He could state a specific evil, as the law stood,
1124Mr. Alderman Wood
 hoped the worthy alderman would not withdraw the bill. He certainly should, in the first instance, support the motion of the worthy alderman, as he felt himself bound to support any measure which had a tendency to encourage the embarkation of the capital of an English merchant in Irish trade.Lord Jocelyn
 having moved the reading of the order of the day for the going into a comtee on the Seizure of Arms bill,Lord Castlereagh
in toto;1126 felt it unnecessary to
in toto;1126Lord Rancliffe
 having moved, that the Speaker do leave the chair,Lord Castlereagh
11301129, after apologizing for the length at which he must trespass on the attention of the House, trusted he need not say, that it was with feelings of the deepest regret he had seen the necessity which existed for calling parliament together, arising from the distresses which prevailed in many parts of the country, and the discontents which they had unfortunately produced. He might, perhaps, add to these causes, the efforts of a few evil-disposed persons, who were ever to be found ready to take advantage of such a state of things, for the furtherance of their own views. There was one subject connected with these considerations, but which he did not wish at present again to introduce into that House—the Manchester meeting—of which he would observe, that his votes had already expressed his own opinion. He could not, however, but regret, that into the nature and consequences of a transaction, unprecedented in the history of this country, and unparalleled in the annals of such meetings, the House had determined not to inquire; nor could he at the same time refrain from declaring, that hitherto he had heard no reason whatever assigned for the denial of an investigation into the occurrences of a day which would for ever be recorded in history as one on which the blood of his majesty's subjects had been wantonly and uselessly shed. Although he allowed that there was cause for alarm, he expressed his conviction that that cause had been greatly exaggerated, for the purpose of obtaining the concurrence of parliament in measures hostile to the freedom, and repugnant to the feelings of Englishmen, If there could be one of those measures more repugnant than another to a free and high-spirited people, such as the English were, it was this. The principles upon which it was founded, and the temper in which it was framed, appeared to him to be so much at variance with the free spirit of their venerated constitution, and so contrary to that undoubted right which the subjects of this country had ever possessed—the right of retaining arms for the defence of themselves, their families, and property—that he could not look upon it without loudly expressing his disapprobation and regret. The more he did look at it, the more he was amazed at the extraordinary powers given to one man, to authorize the entry of others into the house of any individual in the dead of
11301129The Hon. T. W. Anson
1136113511341133 said, that with the exception of a subsequent clause, the whole object of the bill was to give the magistrates a concurrent jurisdiction, enabling them to seize arms, in particular cases, in a neighbouring county. The honourable gentleman who had just sat down had stated, that when a bill of the same nature was formerly before the House he had given it his strong opposition. He had always thought, he said,
1136113511341133Lord Castlereagh
1150l.11491148l.l.1147l.l.11461145114411431142| | allowed that, as he should be sorry to push any expressions beyond their fair and obvious meaning, he was perfectly ready to admit the right of the subject to hold arms according to the principle laid down by the hon. and learned gentleman, especially when accompanied with the qualification which the hon. and learned gentleman had thought proper to annex to the right, after having stated it on the authority of Mr. Justice Blackstone. The doctrine so laid down, he was willing to
1150l.11491148l.l.1147l.l.11461145114411431142| |Mr. Canning
 observed, that he might have made use of the hon. and learned gentleman's argument, as he himself must have felt with greater effect than he even had done.Mr. Canning
 observed, that he did not see any reason why his right hon. friend should have singled him out as the most likely person to have interrupted the right hon. gentleman on the other side during the time he was reading a certain paper to the House, as he was not in the habit of rising to vindicate its privileges, except when he thought that the violation of those privileges tended to produce some practical inconvenience. With regard to the objections which his right hon. friend had taken against the precedents which had been quoted to defend this bill, he must say that they were rather of a curious nature. His right hon. friend had said that they referred only to the Highlands of Scotland, and therefore were not proper precedents for extending a similar measure to England. Why, however, he would ask, was the precedent confined only to the Highlands? Because in those days they were the chief seat of disaffection against the government. The same reason was sufficient for the application of similar measures to those districts which were now disturbed. No reasonable objection had yet been urged against the execution of the warrant by night, and therefore he should give his warmest support to the bill.Mr. Wynn
1162 said, that satisfied
1162General Grosvenor
 replied, that he thought it right to include Westmorland, as it lay between the disaffected districts of Scotland and Lancashire.Lord Lowther
 said, the hon. member had been very ready in advising him, but he thought this bill no stigma, nor would his county think it a stigma. He knew nothing of Northumberland; but as to geography he begged to say, that Westmorland was connected by situation with Lancashire, Cumberland, in which Carlisle was disturbed, and the West Riding of Yorkshire.Lord Lowther
 said, that although that was so, yet the necessity of sending for the lord lieutenant, and other reasons for alarm, had afterwards changed his view of the state of that part.Lord Lowther
 declared his intention of voting against the bill, unless some alteration was made in the clause at present under discussion. Nobody could have a firmer reliance than he had upon the magistracy of the county which he represented: he was certain that they never would abuse any powers which might be entrusted to them; but there were other magistrates upon whom he could not place the same reliance, especially after the occurrences of the 16th of August. He felt himself warranted, from information which he had received from different parts of Derbyshire, in observing, that in that county, there had not been the slightest disturbance for some years, except that partial insurrection which took place a short time ago. Why, then, was Derbyshire to be included in the bill?Lord George Cavendish
11074. "That it is expedient that the borough of Grampound, in which gross
11073. "That it is the duty of this House to consider of further means to detect and prevent corruption in the election of members of parliament.2. "That it is expedient that the right of returning members to serve in parliament, so taken from any borough which shall have been proved to have been guilty of bribery and corruption, should be given to some great towns, the population of which shall not be less than 15,000 souls; or to some of the largest counties.1. "That it is expedient that all boroughs, in which gross and notorious bribery and corruption shall be proved to prevail, should cease to return members to serve in parliament; provision being made to allow such of the electors as shall not have been proved guilty of the said offence, to give votes at any election to be held for the county in which such boroughs shall be respectively situated.
11074. "That it is expedient that the borough of Grampound, in which gross
11073. "That it is the duty of this House to consider of further means to detect and prevent corruption in the election of members of parliament.2. "That it is expedient that the right of returning members to serve in parliament, so taken from any borough which shall have been proved to have been guilty of bribery and corruption, should be given to some great towns, the population of which shall not be less than 15,000 souls; or to some of the largest counties.1. "That it is expedient that all boroughs, in which gross and notorious bribery and corruption shall be proved to prevail, should cease to return members to serve in parliament; provision being made to allow such of the electors as shall not have been proved guilty of the said offence, to give votes at any election to be held for the county in which such boroughs shall be respectively situated.11061105†11041103110211011100vulgi stante coronâ109910981097109610951094l.1093***1092 and said: Mr. Speaker; The House will readily believe, that it is with no common feelings of anxiety that I rise to address them on the present occasion. In private life there is no task more painful, or more inviduous, than to tell an individual of his faults; and those who have had occasion to address this House on any question connected with reform, have found it no less irksome a duty to point out defects, and require amendment, in a numerous assembly. This difficulty, I am aware, has been much increased since last year, when I gave notice of my intentions. It is impossible not to see, that there are two parties dividing the country, both greatly exasperated, and both going to extremes: the one making unlimited demands, and the other meeting them with total and peremptory denial: the one ready to encounter any hazard, for unknown benefits, and imaginary rights; the other ready to sacrifice for present security, those privileges which our ancestors thought cheaply purchased with their blood.11074. "That it is expedient that the borough of Grampound, in which gross
11073. "That it is the duty of this House to consider of further means to detect and prevent corruption in the election of members of parliament.2. "That it is expedient that the right of returning members to serve in parliament, so taken from any borough which shall have been proved to have been guilty of bribery and corruption, should be given to some great towns, the population of which shall not be less than 15,000 souls; or to some of the largest counties.1. "That it is expedient that all boroughs, in which gross and notorious bribery and corruption shall be proved to prevail, should cease to return members to serve in parliament; provision being made to allow such of the electors as shall not have been proved guilty of the said offence, to give votes at any election to be held for the county in which such boroughs shall be respectively situated.
11074. "That it is expedient that the borough of Grampound, in which gross
11073. "That it is the duty of this House to consider of further means to detect and prevent corruption in the election of members of parliament.2. "That it is expedient that the right of returning members to serve in parliament, so taken from any borough which shall have been proved to have been guilty of bribery and corruption, should be given to some great towns, the population of which shall not be less than 15,000 souls; or to some of the largest counties.1. "That it is expedient that all boroughs, in which gross and notorious bribery and corruption shall be proved to prevail, should cease to return members to serve in parliament; provision being made to allow such of the electors as shall not have been proved guilty of the said offence, to give votes at any election to be held for the county in which such boroughs shall be respectively situated.11061105†11041103110211011100vulgi stante coronâ109910981097109610951094l.1093***1092Lord John Russell rose
1122 said, he rose with feelings of peculiar pleasure to thank the noble lord for the conciliatory disposition which he had evinced, and to congratulate the House on the result of that night's debate. He was, indeed, ready to acknowledge, that the noble lord had given him every assistance in his power, in conducting the inquiry last session into the state of the borough of Grampound; but, on the present occasion, he must confess that the noble lord had even gone beyond what he had reason to expect. He certainly did not see the force of the objection which the noble lord had urged against his proposition; but on that subject it was not his intention to offer any remarks. If he rightly understood what had been said, the noble lord had no objection to a bill for disfranchising the borough of Grampound, and extending the right of representation to some great town or other place; and that if he should have any objections to the plan proposed for transferring the right of representation, he would state them when the bill came to be discussed. He now therefore gave notice, that on Thursday next he should
1122Lord John Russell
 could not concur in the view of the state of the county of Durham taken by his hon. colleague. At a meeting of 38 magistrates and other principal inhabitants of the county of Durham, 36 expressed their opinion of the necessity of placing the yeomanry in that county on permanent duty. A great portion of the population of that county, although suffering great distress, certainly bore it with exemplary temper and forbearance; but from all the means of information of which he had been able to avail himself, he was persuaded that there nevertheless did exist in that county considerable disaffection.Mr. W. Powlett
1161 said, he had stated in 1812, that in the manufacturing districts the number of magistrates had at all times been small, from the absence of
1161Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
 apologized for taking that opportunity of addressing the House on the state of the country and the new measures, as he had been prevented by family indisposition from attending to deliver his sentiments earlier in these discussions. That the country was in an alarming state no one had ventured to deny, from whatever cause its danger originated He was convinced, not only by the papers on the table, but by information, obtained from other quarters, that there did exist a widely spread conspiracy for changing the constitution of the country. He believed that many of those persons who had recently been actively engaged in the proceedings to which he alluded, thought that that at which they aimed would be an improvement of the constitution; but he also believed that they were misled, and goaded on by leaders who hoped to raise themselves in the confusion of a revolution. For this purpose, those leaders endeavoured to eradicate every religious principle from their minds, to draw closer the ties that united the infidel to the enemy of order, and direct the combined powers of blasphemy and sedition against the government and the institutions of the country. A great change to the worse had taken place in the morals and opinions of the people over the manufacturing districts; so great indeed as to render it doubtful, whether the diffusion of education, by which their minds had been opened to the introduction of mischievous as well as good principles, had been more a blessing or otherwise. Disaffection prevailed not only among those who were suffering from want, but those who enjoyed a competence; and that disaffection had been nourished by speeches at public meetings, by seditious publications and itinerant orators. It was consolatory, however, to reflect, that the operation of these machinations was confined to particular districts, and that even in those districts the moral and decent feeling of the majority of the people revolted against them. Nevertheless no man acquainted with the state of the manufacturing districts, but must allow that it was a state of great danger.—With respect, however, to the enactment in the bill which authorized the search for arms, by night, he considered it as utterly inconsistent with freedom, and with the existence of civilized society.Mr. Protheroe
11181117non constat declared, that he never rose with more of the spirit of moderation, or with more of a disposition to harmony than he felt at that moment; and in the first place, he must thank his noble friend for the opportunity which he had afforded the House of unanimously and decidedly discountenancing the wild and visionary doctrines of reform which had lately agitated the country. But while he must say, that he could not see the force of the noble lord's objection to some parts of the speech of his noble friend, he was pleased with the points upon which the noble lord expressed his disposition to acquiesce. The noble lord, if he correctly understood him, and he was not disposed to misrepresent, had acceded to this proposition—that if the majority of the electors of any place or borough, should be found to have conducted themselves corruptly, the right of voting for such place or borough should be thrown upon the adjoining districts, or the right of return should be transferred to some other district. But then the noble lord had raised an objection to that of his noble friend's plan, which proposed to confer the right of voting for the same county upon such electors as had not acted improperly, but as might be involved in the disfranchisement of any borough. To this proposition, the noble lord had said, that its adoption would serve to create an anomaly, by giving potwallopers the right of voting for the return of a county member. But to such an anomaly he thought no very serious objection could be urged. If the right of voting for a comity were given to the present potwallopers, 11181117non constatMr. Tierney
1160115911581157l.11561155laying115411531152 expressed his surprise that the impression of gentlemen opposite always should be to treat this and other important subjects as mere party questions. The whole wrath of the right hon. gentleman—Well, he did not wish to use the same word that he had used on a former occasion, and he would therefore say that the whole speech of the right hon. gentleman had been one continued attempt to devise some mode by which he could throw a slur on gentlemen who sat on that (the Opposition) side of the House. Having no ground on which he could support an accusation with reference to their present actions, the right hon. gentleman went back to the old topic, and began to revile them as Whigs— Whig, Whig, Whig," were the first and the last words in the right hon. gentleman's speech. Night after night this epithet was introduced in order to annoy them. The right hon. gentleman never made a speech in the course of which he did not declare that the Whigs were the persons whom the country ought most particularly to guard against as having done a great deal of harm. The Whigs had, however, done the country some good, which the right hon. gentleman overlooked; but if they were the authors of any mischief, that was exactly the precedent the right hon. gentleman and his colleagues quoted in order to justify the ill which they were willing to do to the constitution. It was a pity that they would not imitate some of the good works of the Whigs, as well as their bad ones. An hon. member under the gallery had said, how fortunate and how happy an event it would be if gentlemen coming to these discussions would throw aside the spirit of party, if they would endeavour to render those measures palatable instead of opposing them altogether. Now if ever an effort was made to do this, it had been attempted with respect to the bill now before the House. When that measure was brought forward, he stated his objection not to its peculiar principle, but with a reference to the situation of the times. He desired that a
1160115911581157l.11561155laying115411531152Mr. Tierney
 said, that the noble lord, had traduced the character of his county, and upon his authority the House was called upon to pass this most odious law respecting a peaceable and well disposed county, and in the most odious shape in which it could be passed; as it authorized persons to enter into houses during the repose of night. He wished to know, whether the county of Northumberland was to be included, and nine-tenths, who were loyal and well disposed, were to have this stigma upon them? Because the neighbourhood of Newcastle was infested by a few who were the object of contempt and indignation to the great body of the county, Westmorland was to have that stigma upon no evidence at all but the calumny of its own representative. No member so calumniated Northumberland.Mr. Bennet
 said, that the noble lord who was one of the representatives of Derbyshire, had asked, why that county was included? The noble lord opposite had deigned to give no reply. The member for Coventry had asked, why the people of Coventry, reported by the constituted authorities to be in a state of perfect loyalty, should be included? Still no reply from the noble lord. The sole purpose of this extension of an unnecessary, irritating, and barbarous measure was to circulate the system of delusion and deception.Mr. Bennet
11321131 strongly objected to the bill. It would be in the recollection of the committee that on the subject of depriving the people of arms, a measure had been proposed in the year 1817, which he had opposed. He did so upon this principle—because he held that the distinctive difference between a freeman and a slave was a right to possess arms; not so much, as had been stated, for the purpose of defending his property as his liberty Neither could do, if deprived of those arms, in the hour of danger. It was a violation of the principles of a free
11321131Mr. Bennet
unprecedentedness in explanation, declared that the right hon. gentleman had quoted expressions and arguments which he had never used. When did he ever say that this measure was unprecedented? When did he ever argue on what the right hon. gentleman was pleased, in a fine word, to call it unprecedentednessMr. Brougham
11411140l.113911381137ultraultra observed, that thus much had been conceded—the noble lord did not present the bill upon the table as constitutional in its principle or in its spirit, for he had frankly avowed that it was an infraction of the one and a violation of the other. It did not follow that the same opinion would be felt by all who ranged themselves on the side of government; from an 11411140l.113911381137ultraultraMr. Brougham
1165 said, the noble lord had really let new light in upon them. Carlisle, then, was now considered disaffected and dangerous. The noble lord had thought otherwise before the 16th of August; for if he had not been misinformed, the noble lord had put down a loyal address proposed to be signed by
1165Mr. Brougham
in transitu said, it appeared then that Westmorland was to be punished, not for any radical principles, of which it had none, but on account of its misfortune in being situated between radical districts. The noble lord happened, however, to be unfortunate in his geography, for Dumfriesshire was situated between the disaffected part of Scotland and Lancashire, and yet it was not included. Perhaps the noble lord might as well urge that Westmorland was included in order to prepare for another measure, to stop the radicals in transituMr. Brougham
1151 replied, that it would have been very unfair in the right hon. gentleman to have done so, since he had stated his qualification in very strong terms, and had not pushed his argument so far as some people thought. He knew from experience the powers of misrepresentation possessed by the right hon. gentleman, and he thanked him for his courtesy in not making use of them to the greatest possible extent on the present occasion. He very sensibly felt that he
1151Mr. Brougham
1125§ observed, that adhering to the declaration which he had made on a former occasion, of the tranquillity of the county of Durham, and of the absence of all necessity, in that county at least, for the measures in the progress of enactment by the legislature—having already stated that the report of arms being found in the possession of the persons who attended the meeting at Newcastle was wholly groundless—having since received from the clerk of the peace of the county of Durham a direct contradiction of an extraordinary statement respecting that county, contained in an article in a ministerial news-
1125§Mr. Lambton
 rose to make a similar proposition with respect to Nottingham. He contended that there had been no disturbances in the county of Nottingham sufficient to warrant the extension to that county of the operation of the bill. Unquestionably much distress existed in Nottingham. Of 10,854 frames, no fewer than 3,751 were unemployed; so that a great portion of the population were almost starving. Had the harsh measures now before parliament any tendency to ameliorate the condition of the poor people thus left destitute? He was persuaded that had the noble lord acceded to the motion of his honourable friend, for an inquiry into the existing distresses of the country—had he even gone so far as to show his feeling and the feeling of parliament for those distresses, more good Would have been effected, than by all the gagging bills that could be devised. Instead of which, however, the present bill was urged, with the denunciation which its title expressed against all the "disturbed counties." Now as Nottingham was not disturbed, he should move, that it be an instruction to the committee, that the provisions of the bill should not extend to the town and county of the town of Nottingham.Mr. Birch
 proposed to have the city of Coventry excepted. The mayor and corporation, although as much at variance with the inhabitants as his majesty's ministers were with the whole of the people, represented the inhabitants to be loyal and submissive to the laws. This was part of a system of grinding and simple despotism, of encroachment on encroachment, plot on plot. This was the Pitt system long advancing in its desolating course, and now hastening to a consummation.Mr. P. Moore
, on perusing the bill, felt convinced that it contained nothing which could affect the poor man's rights, or property, except he possessed fire-arms, for which he could have no use. Had the bill been one for the protection of game, the gentlemen opposite would not have objected to it.Mr. R. Martin
 concurred in the assertion, that there was not the slightest manifestation of disaffection or disloyalty at Nottingham. He begged leave to state for the information of ministers, with respect to the town of Nottingham, that although the lord lieutenant of the county did at one period propose the adoption of measures indicative of a suspicion of disaffection, he believed that noble duke was now perfectly satisfied that his apprehensions were unfounded. The more reports of disturbance and disaffection were inquired into, the more they were proved to be groundless.Mr. Denman
 defended the loyal address which he had proposed to the grand jury. He had thought it incumbent on them to do as others had done, very properly and very beneficially. No place was in a more dangerous state than Carlisle.Mr. Wallace
 thought it would be advisable to get rid of as much of the rigour of the bill before the committee as possible. He was convinced that the people were generally loyal and obedient; he did not therefore see any necessity for the extraordinary coercion that the obnoxious clauses manifested, and unless the bill were stripped of them, he conceived it would tend much to aggravate those who were well affected to the government of the country.Mr. T. Wilson
 would not have thought it necessary to have spoken at all on this question had he not concurred with his honourable friends in thinking that this bill was stretched farther than humanity required, in giving to magistrates the power of search by night. Though he was afraid of an insurrection, and even of a rebellion, bursting forth in the manufacturing districts, he could not see any advantage arising from the execution of this search-warrant for arms in the nighttime, which would not arise as well from its execution in the day time. Besides, the effect of the bill, if passed with this obnoxious clause in it, would be to excite disgust in the bosoms of the well-affected, who would be shocked by the horrors which would attend the execution of it. He did hot, however, see the expediency of having the signature of two magistrates to the warrant, which had been so warmly advocated by some hon. gentlemen.Mr. Lyttelton
 said, that he should vote for the original clause, and against the amendment. The publicity which was given to every transaction in this country would guard the powers which were entrusted to the magistracy under it from being abused. There was not a county under the operation, of the bill which did not possess more than one or two newspapers; and if any abuse was committed, they would take care to blazon it forth to the country. Besides, let the committee remember for what the search was to be made. It was for arms which persons kept for the injury of themselves, and for the destruction of others; it was for the seizure of arms from persons who had made up their minds to resist legal authority. There could be no doubt of the object for which those arms were kept. Upon the principle of humanity, therefore, he would support the original clause. Prevention was better than punishment. It was better to seize the arms of evil-disposed persons than to suffer them to go on from bad to worse, from disaffection to blood and murder.Mr. Wilberforce
1163 said, he had voted for nine and twenty years on the ministerial side of the House, but, if the obnoxious
1163Sir Joseph Yorke
 believed the bill to be necessary, but argued against the clause empowering the search by night.Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, that by letters he had received that morning, he could state, that there was every appearance of tranquillity, even in the places in the neighbourhood of Newcastle, where disaffection had appeased. Individuals were fast giving up the classes into which they had formed themselves.Sir M. W. Ridley
11211120§1119 stated, that, with the permission of the House, he would shortly notice his reasons for opposing all the resolutions of the noble lord; at the same time he would not disturb the harmony which now so happily subsisted between the noble lord and the right hon. gentleman, by giving a negative to the particular point upon which they agreed. He lamented that this spirit did not commence some days sooner, as he was sure, if it had done so, the right hon. gentleman; would have saved the House and the country much time and anxiety. He received with every respect the proposition of the noble lord, because there was no proposition, especially on the present subject, which the House would not feel disposed to receive from any member the house of Russell and this feeling was
11211120§1119Mr. Valentine Blake
 said, it might perhaps be considered irregular in him to address the House after his noble friend had proposed to withdraw his motion; but he could not refrain from congratulating the House on the result of the debate. Though, for his own part, he certainly did not object to the propositions of his noble friend, yet, perhaps, some of them propounded principles which it was better to keep out of view. His opinion on the subject he should state when the bill was brought in; but at present he might observe, that he thought it would be both possible and expedient to adopt some general rule for supplying the vacancies in the representation occasioned by the disfranchisement of corrupt boroughs, and he thought that the House, in establishing such a rule, should direct its consideration to those places which formerly sent members to parliament, but which at present were unrepresented.Lord Milton
[986 said, that he had a petition to present from the Guildry of Edinburgh, which prayed for a reform in the present constitution of the Scotch burghs. He should not have said any thing on that question at present had it not been for the numerous signatures which were attached to the petition which he had to present, for the perspicuous statement which the petitioners made in it of the evils under which they laboured, and for the firm and constitutional manner in which they expressed their hopes of obtaining redress from the justice of parliament. They complained of the self-election of the members of the different corporations, which was an evil that the House ought immediately to remedy; inasmuch as, by the law of Scotland, all the burgesses were responsible for the debts contracted by a magistracy, of which they did not elect a single a member. This was a serious hardship, because many boroughs had funds, which were only just equal to their expenditure, and others had an expenditure greater than their funds. The petitioners bad been accused of favouring wild and visionary schemes of reform; they stated that this accusation was false, and that it was known to be so by those who urged it. They also added, that if they had been the disloyal subjects which they had been asserted to be, they could not have wished for any thing better than the continuance of the system which prevailed. The government never had an easier opportunity of conciliating a large number of its subjects by the mere exercise of common sense and common justice, than it had on the present occasion. All the petitioners asked for was, a relief from their present grievances: they were, however, of opinion, that the bill which the lord advocate had intro-
[986Mr. Abereromby
 said, he could not let this opportunity pass without objecting to that part of the bill which sanctioned enlistments for life. It was a practice productive, on all sides, of unmixed evil. It went necessarily to render the soldier discontented with his situation, it prevented the recruiting of the army, it was in itself a monstrous injustice, and one which was never heard of, or tolerated in this country, previously to the accession of George the first. The late Mr. Wind-ham, he said, had substituted enlistment for a term of years; which the noble lord opposite had got rid of, by holding out a fallacious option, and under this, a boy of sixteen or seventeen years of age, probably intoxicated, when he could not by law make a title to the smallest amount of transferable property, was allowed to sell himself for life for ten pounds! He should therefore move, that the schedule B. be left out of the bill, which contained the form of the oath for Life Enlistments.Mr. Gurney
 said, the hon. member seemed to attribute part of the distresses suffered by those individuals to the neglect of government. This was not just. He knew of very few cases where they could interfere to give local relief, without being guilty of partiality. The proper way was to come to parliament, and let the facts of the case be duly investigated.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was unwilling to obtrude himself on the House, but having been for many years connected with the army; he might be supposed to have formed an opinion oh this subject. That opinion was not a popular one, but still he was bound to state it. He must then say, that, however objectionable and injurious the system formerly was, yet he did not think the British army could be kept in its present state of discipline, if it were wholly removed.Sir Lowry Cole
 called the attention of the House to the Frame-work-knitters petition which he had recently presented; and after pointing out the necessity which existed, for granting some relief to that body, moved, "That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into the grievances complained of in the frame-knitters petition, and to report the same, with their observations thereon, to the House."Mr. Mansfield
 said, that as the petitioners had made out a strong case, he hoped they would not, by a refusal to examine their grievances, be led into an opinion, that the House was unwilling to grant them relief. If some measure of relief were not given to those poor people (and if it originated with his majesty's government, he should like it the better), their sufferings were so excessive, that he feared scenes of disorder, which all good, men, deprecated would be the consequence.Mr. Birch
[992 did not mean to oppose the motion, but looking to the result which had attended the labours of the committee appointed in 1816, to inquire into the grievances of the Nottingham manufacturers which had sat six weeks to very little purpose, he hoped the House would
[992Mr. Hume
 described the afflicting state in which the frame-work-knitters were plunged, and earnestly entreated the House to devote some means of relieving them.Mr. Pares
 said, that the army, with respect to courts-martial was in an unhappy state indeed; since the sentences were given privately, and transmitted to the commander in chief, instead of being, as in the navy, openly promulged. Sir Isaac Coffin
res judicata; [judge advocate general] said, that when returns had been laid before the House of the number of courts-martial, not for one or two years, but for a century and a half past, and when it had still continued to sanction corporal punishment, he thought the matter should; be considered as res judicata;Mr. Beckett
 moved the order of the day for continuing the investigation on this subject, when, in consequence of an explanation given by Mr. W. Quin, relative to a discordance between the testimony of Mr. Goold and Mr. Carew Smith, by which it appeared that Mr. Quin confirmed the assertion of Mr. C. Smith, and negatived that of Mr. Goold, as to an interview on the morning of September 22. Mr. Lambton moved the discharge of certain orders for the attendance of additional witnesses from Ireland. The Speaker learning that Mr. W. Quin admitted the correctness of Mr. C. Smyth's statement, and consequently that no further evidence would probably be necessary upon that point, said, he had delayed the issue and transmission of the summonses. Mr. Goold was called in to explain a part of his testimony of Friday night: after which Mr. T. W. Grady, the petitioner, was examined at great length. Mr. David Roche was then examined; after which, R. Wilson moved that the minutes of evidence taken that day be printed along with the rest. As he did not think that the minutes could be in the hands of members before the beginning of next week, he should move that the further consideration of the petition be adjourned to the 25th instant. This was put and carried.Sir R. Wilson
[990ÇÇultimum supplicium989 said;—Not having recollected that the Mutiny bill was passed before the 24th instant, I omitted to ask for returns which I wished to be laid upon the table of this House, before the bill came under consideration. Having, however, in much earlier life expressed a strong opinion upon a particular part of our military code, and having, indeed, been the first officer who, by a written treatise, directed the serious attention of the government and the country to the subject, I feel called upon to express my present opinions, notwithstanding I am so much exhausted. I know that since the time to which I alluded, the duke of York has effected what may be called a revolution in our military system of discipline I know that by his regulations admoni-
[990ÇÇultimum supplicium989Sir Robert Wilson
 was astonished to hear the hon. gentleman assert, that this country owed the victory of Waterloo, and other glorious achievements to the system of corporal punishment. This was an assertion which he never could give credit to. He could not believe, that the victories of this country were to be attributed to so base an engine. The infliction of corporal punishment would, he believed militate against the accomplishment of mighty deeds; He should not rejoice in the noble spirit and enthusiastic gallantry of a British army, if they could be traced to such a source as that which the hon. gentleman had panegyrised.Sir J. Newport
985
985Mr. Gooch
s.s. said, that this subject had been well and frequently considered in the House, and the ground on which this part of the system stood was evidently the fairest and best. The recruit might choose limited or unlimited service. The difference in the bounty was only 16s.s.Lord Palmerston
 presented, by command of the Prince Regent, the Convention between Great Britain and America, of which the following is a Copy:Lord Castlereagh
 brought in a bill "for the preventing of bribery and corruption in the election of members to serve in parliament for the borough of Penryn, in the county of Cornwall." The bill was read a first time, ordered to be read a second time on the 2nd of April, and to be printed.Sir C. Burrell
[1002 said, that as the hon. gentleman's motion seemed to have been made merely for the purpose of obtaining information, he would trouble the House with a very few words. It was undoubtedly true, that much difference and controversy had existed; not as to the judicial system attempted to be introduced into India, because that was modelled upon our own, and such emendations had been engrafted upon it as local circumstances were thought to require; but as to the adaptation of that system to that particular country. Were his own opinion to be asked upon this subject, he should not, undoubtedly, draw so highly coloured a picture as the hon. gentleman had done; but he should rather say, that the benevolent intentions of lord Cornwallis had been in many instances frustrated. If some evils had flowed from that system, he was by no means prepared to bay, that no good had been effected by
[1002Mr. Canning
 considered the motion as one calculated to confer the best benefit on an extended population, namely, a just administration of the law: with this benefit they were at present entirely unacquainted, and India presented a melancholy scene in consequence. It was impossible that the House should not enter into the views of the hon. mover. For himself, it was his decided opinion, that however extensive our territorial dominions in Hindustan might be—however we might have subdued faction and revolt—however we might have crushed a formidable confederacy of Mabratta princes, and now ranged those predatory and feudatory chiefs under our own banners—yet our best security and our firmest empire was to be established in the affections, and attachment of the native population; and those could only be acquired by making them, feel that equity and protection were the principles of our jurisprudence.Lord Morpeth
 then moved, "That a printed copy of the said bill be served upon the Portreeve of the borough of Penryn, and that he do affix notice of the day appointed for the second reading of the said bill on the doors of the Town-hall and of the parish church of the said broughtLord Castlreagh
[1000 did not see the absolute
[1000Mr. Wynn
 said, he entirely concurred in the proposed proceeding; more especially, considering the loss of time which would accrue upon the serving of notices on not less than 250 individuals, residents of Penryn.Sir C. Burrell
 dwelt emphatically on the, importance of India, and on the wretched state of the police and administration of justice in that country; and impressed on the other members of his majesty's government, the expediency of taking measures forthwith to bring the natives of that country out of the state of wretched-ness in which they, were plunged.Mr. Hutchison
[1004 Said he could assure the
[1004Mr. Canning
[1006ex-post facto;1005 rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to submit a motion to the house with regard to the present state of the
[1006ex-post facto;1005The Attorney General
 said, that an order had been made for the production of the minutes of evidence, taken before the committee on the Rochester Election, without any reason assigned for that proceeding. As this was contrary to the practice of the House, he should move that the said order be read, for the purpose of moving afterwards that it be discharged.Mr. Wynn
 rose to order. The opinion of counsel was no reason, he said, for attaching blame to the committee. They had decided upon the evidence before them, and the previous opinion of counsel was very improper ground for impeaching their conduct. It would be improper and dangerous to arraign the conduct of committees.Lord Castlereagk
, as a member of the committee, deemed it to be his duty to declare the opinion which he had formed after mature consideration, and which every thing he had since heard had contributed to strengthen. He had concurred most fully with the committee in deciding in favour of the due election of the sitting member, but there had appeared to him to be that ground of doubt on the face of the act of parliament, that a legal argument might fairly be raised on it. He could not, therefore, bring himself to concur in the opinion of the committee respecting the petition, because a sentence of a committee that a petition was frivolous and vexatious, implied not only that the committee had no doubts on the subject, but that there could arise no reasonable doubt in the minds of others. The House would only gather from this that the committee were not unanimous. He was convinced at the same time that the committee had acted from their best judgment, and he therefore concurred in the present motion.Lord Normanby
1019 thought that no good could result from the motion; but, on the contrary, that to bring before the House, who were not on their oaths, the judicial parts of the transactions of election committees, would shake the fundamental advantage of the Grenville act. To decide a petition to be frivolous and vexatious, it was not necessary that the intention of the petitioner should be to harass the. sitting member; it was enough that he proceeded upon such loose and frivolous grounds as had the effect of bringing unnecessary vexation on him. He also protested
1019Lord Castlercagh
 said, that this was the first time, he believed, for the last five and forty years, that it had been expected that any good could arise from canvassing in the House the decision of its election committees. The next step would probably be a proposal to repeal the law which had already produced such excellent effects. The House had, by the Grenville act, delegated to its committees the right of deciding on election petitions, and had thus prevented great evils. If the order to produce the minutes was enforced and the judgment of the committee questioned, there was an end of the law. It was a part of the duty of committees to declare on oath whether they thought the petitions on which they sat frivolous and vexatious. If they so determined, the petitioner paid the costs. Was not this what happened in all other cases? The right hon. gentleman had made a distinction between frivolous and vexatious; but it did not appear necessary for inferring costs, that a petitioner should be adjudged both. If frivolous, it was in fact vexatious. It seemed strange, after this petition had been decided on by fifteen gentlemen, who had the best evidence, and who were sworn to examine it impartially, that the question should be brought before the House for discussion by those who had heard only one side of it, and who saw only the opinion of counsel. Fifteen gentlemen had given their judgment against the petitioner on principles which had been acted upon for the last hundred and fifteen years and yet the hon. gentleman had said to-night, that the question was never mooted. A uniform practice of upwards of one hundred years was surely better than a doubtful decision, or a newly mooted question.Mr. Wynn
custos[1024into: said, that he should not have persisted in claiming priority of speech at that period of the evening, had he not been of opinion that he could offer same explanations to the House which would render it unnecessary to enter into any lengthened discussion. Though they did not convince him, he had listened with the most pleasing attention to the arguments of the last speaker, and had witnessed with the utmost satisfaction the same enthusiasm of feeling exhibited by the son in defence of our reverend monarch as had formerly been displayed, so nobly and ably, by the father. Notwithstanding the respect which he felt for him, and for the gallant officer who had brought forward the present motion, he was obliged to disagree with them custos[1024into:Lord Castlereagh
[1026 said, that when he heard that a motion for the restoration of the two equerries was to be made, he had declared that it should meet with his support. He confessed that, after what had passed, he was in some embarrassment, from a doubt as to which side he should give his vote, and this doubt was caused by the manner in which the gallant officer had thought fit to word his resolution. He was ready to acquiesce in the motion for the restoration of the two equerries, but he was not prepared to agree with the hon. member in the reasons
[1026Mr. Martin (of Galway)
 thought that good had been done by bringing forward this discussion, and argued that it was too much to decide that a petitioner had acted frivolously and vexatiously, when he proceeded under the advice of two gentlemen who had had so much business before committees. No petition could be with propriety decided to be frivolous and vexatious, unless the object of the petitioner clearly was, to harass the sitting member, without hopes of succeeding in his petition. The question as to the qualification of the eldest sons of Scots peers had never been decided: The clerk at the table was merely in the habit of receiving the declaration of a gentleman, that he was the son of a peer without inquiry. He did not quarrel with the decision of the committee as to the merits of the election; but when they had divided seven to seven on the question of censuring the petition, which was carried only by the casting vote, it was natural the petitioner should feel some degree of soreness. Some measure should be taken to relieve committees from the necessity of such a decision, as the practice would in effect be writing up against petitioners "Steel traps and spring guns." The right hon. gentleman had said that any plain person might construe the act of parliament; bat the right hon. gentleman was not a plain person; he was a person practised in the explanation of acts of parliament. But here came a gentleman who had been in the artillery. What could he do? He had consulted two eminent counsel, and had acted on their opinions. If a petition founded on such advice was voted frivolous and vexatious, no man could tell when he was safe in petitioning the House.Mr. Tierney
[1016 said, he was in a strange, and certainly a difficult situation. An hon. gentleman had objected to him, that he had procured the order without assigning reasons; and now when he had begun to assign reasons for his proceeding, the noble lord had objected to him that he was out of order. In what was he out of order. The House could canvass or arraign the conduct of the lord chancellor it could arraign the conduct of the judges or of any individuals in the kingdom, invested with judicial powers; and in that right he stood up, and asserted his privilege, though not in the language of arraignment, to offer his observations on the conduct of the committee. He repeated, that his object was the guidance of future petitioners; that it was the first time, that on an unmooted, undecided point of law, a committee had come to
[1016Mr. Bennet
1015 said, he had moved for the production of the minutes without assigning any reason, but anxious himself to hear from some member of the committee the reasons for the decision which that body had adopted. As a motion was now made to rescind that order, he should state the reasons why he had been induced to procure it. He wished the minutes to be produced that future petitioners might
1015Mr. Bennet
[1014primâ facie said, that though he did not mean to oppose the introduction of the bill, nor was prepared to state at that period his assent to, or dissent from the principle of it, he should suggest one obvious [1014primâ facieMr. Brougham
 presented themselves to the notice of the House. Lord Castlereagh first caught the Speaker's eye; but Mr. Brougham was loudly called on by the opposition members to proceed.Lord Castlereagh and Mr. Brougham
l.l.l. said, that if the adoption of the motion were capable of adding in any degree to the dignity of the Crown, or the comfort of the sovereign, no man would be more ready to support it than himself; but he felt that, in the present unfortunate situation of the king, to annex a multitudinous train to his majesty would be a mere mockery. He could not accede to such a proposition, although were this train to add in the slightest degree to the dignity of the throne, or the comfort of the king, the grant of 1,000l.l.l.Mr. Grattan
1013ex post factocessio bonorum,[1012 observed, that after the committee had terminated their labours and presented their report, the merits of this question would properly come under consideration. He had to apologize to the House for offering any observations on it at all; but there were some few words which had fallen from the worthy alderman that required notice. The worthy alderman had charged some offences on the Insolvent Debtors' act which did not belong to it. The worthy alderman had said that a comparison was drawn some nights ago between the bankrupt laws and the Insolvent Debtors' act, but that comparison could be drawn between them, as the bankrupt laws were founded in justice, and the Insolvent Debtors was not. Was an act which said that an honest debtor who fairly gave up his property should not be abandoned entirely to the mercy of his creditor, not founded in justice? The worthy alderman had said that when assignees were disposed to do their duty, justice was always done, and he had bestowed praise on all Who were connected with the execu-
1013ex post factocessio bonorum,[1012Mr. Abercromby
 asked, whether any clause was to be introduced to set at rest the question, whether Scots peers eldest sons. were qualified to sit?Mr. Barnett
1001 rose to submit his promised motion, for a return of papers relative to, and declaratory of, the judicial system at present pursued in India. On a subject of so much general importance, he thought it proper to offer one or two observations, as he was anxious that the House should clearly understand the nature of that system. He should begin by declaring, that the whole of our judicial system in India had been very much misrepresented. In this country, we had been completely in the dark, as to the deplorable state of jurisprudence in India, both civil and criminal, and as to the state of the police there. The documents he should now move for, as well as other documents in his own private possession, were connected with a subject which nearly concerned the welfare of no less than from seventy to eighty millions of souls. Yet, upon these important matters, the public now were, as they had been for the last twenty years past, in a state of profound ignorance. Civil justice was, in fact, virtually denied to suitors; those very suitors being obliged to pay the government, on the amounts claimed by them, from 50 down to 7 and 6 per cent. This he was able to declare, not from any official documents obtained by him from the East India Company, but from their own regulations of 1814 regulations, in which the House would find with astonishment, that a fine was levied on the value sued for, decreasing as the amount increased, from 50 down to 1 per cent. That astonishment would be much increased, when he stated, that every document requisite to the progress of a suit, the citations, examinations, and depositions of witnesses, &c. were all to be written, every sheet of them, upon
1001Mr. Hume
 expressed his concurrence in the selection from his motions made by the right hon. the president of the board Of control. Adverting to what had just fallen from the learned gentleman, he observed, that if there was one evil in India which required correction more than another it was the state of the police. Many months often elapsed before persons who were apprehended were brought to an examination; during which time they were kept in crowded prisons, where death frequently overtook them. The whole system of the Bengal police was carried on by hired spies, the heads of bands of rubbers, who were admitted king's evidence. So far from there being any economy in the judicial department, the administration of justice on the whole of Europe did not cost so much as the administration of justice in the British dominions in India. He congratulated the House and the public, on the recent publication of Mr. Mill, which contained so many accurate statements and so much clear reasoning, that it could not fail to be eminently beneficial.Mr. Hume
 agreed with the last speaker in his view of the subject, and he thought the attorney-general deserved great praise for the manner in which he brought the measure forward.Mr. Hurst
1011l.l.l.cessio bonorum,cessio bonorum.[1010l.1009[10081007 said, it would be in the recollection of the House, That on presenting the first Petiton against the Insolvent Debtors act, he had given no-
1011l.l.l.cessio bonorum,cessio bonorum.[1010l.1009[10081007Mr. Alderman Waithman
1023[1022 addressed the House for the first time. He said that if it required any thing In addition to the importance of the question itself to rouse
1023[1022Mr. Spencer Perceval
1003 declared, that to his own knowledge there was no justice in India until the establishment of the regulations introduced by lord Cornwallis, whose system had his complete approbation. The diffusion of it was of course attended with difficulty, and many years must elapse before it could be exclusively in operation. Its progress, however, had been greater than could have been expected, although much impeded by a false economy in limiting the number of individuals employed in the administration of justice. He had had an opportunity, during a residence of 21 years of witnessing the improvement which the system had made in the character of the natives, and the inducements which it held out to the inhabitants of the neighbouring states to emigrate to the British dominions. As to the system of police, it was dreadful.
1003Sir W. Burroughs
1025 said, that he had listened with as much pleasure as any member on the other side of the House to the hon. gentleman who had spoken last but one. The recollections which had pressed upon the mind of every man in the House, in consequence of the subject on which he had spoken, had given his speech an additional interest of a very peculiar nature. Notwithstanding that, he would make bold to tell him, that the laugh which had come from the side of the House on which he (Mr. Lamb) sat, and which had excited the hon. gentleman's strong indignation, had not been directed against the revered individual whose advanced age and heavy misfortunes rendered him so strong a contrast to the splendor of a crown. His thought that the hon. gentleman would withdraw his anger, when he was told, that the laugh originated in the palpable inconsistency of the resolution. The preamble stated in lofty language, that the Windsor establishment ought to be conducted with all proper magnificence, and ended with
1025Mr. William Lamb
[1018è contra,ex majore cautelâ,1017 said, he had not objected to the production of the minutes, lest he should seem to have opposed inquiry. His noble friend had put the question as to a petition which should be voted frivolous and vexatious on the fair footing; but he would state why it appeared to him that there could exist no reasonable grounds for such a petition. Minutes of evidence there were in fact none; all that was material had been admitted on both sides; the whole question arose put of a few words of an act of parliament, which
[1018è contra,ex majore cautelâ,1017Mr. Sturges Bourne
 thought it proper that all persons whose rights might be affected by the bill should be fully apprised of its provisions.Sir A. Piggott
 observed, that in former cases, it had been the practice to give previous notice of the second reading of a bill to all parties concerned. In later ones, however, the practice was, to submit the matter to a select committee of the House who directed notices to be served on such parties. In the Hindon case, the order of the House was, to disfranchise Certain individuals only; which order was accordingly served upon them, and not upon the borough itself. He only stated these circumstances, in order that the House might be aware of the nature of the present proceeding; and suggested, that possibly it might be advisable to direct the returning officer to serve similar notices, or affix them on public places in Penryn.The Speaker
 submitted to the House, that it was necessary to take some step that evening with regard to the stayed writ for Barn-staple. Upon which it was ordered, on the motion of lord Clive, "That Mr. Speaker do not issue his warrant to the clerk of the crown, to make out a new writ for the electing of a burgess to serve in the present parliament for the borough of Barnstaple, in the room of sir Manasseh Masseh Lopes, bart., whose election has been determined to be void, till Tuesday, 23rd March."The Speaker
 said, he had no such intention, as he had always thought that question settled.Sir G. Warrender
l.l. said, the motion which he had to propose would not require to be prefaced by many observations. By the act of the 9th of queen Anne, ch. 5, it was enacted, that to enable a person to sit for an English county, he should possess 600l.l.Sir G. Warrender
 said, he had not; overlooked the objection stated by the learned gentleman; but the qualification was required in Scotland under a particular law, by which every representative of a shire was to be an enrolled freeholder: to represent a Scots burgh, no qualification whatever was requisite. For representing particular places in England (he had understood), some boroughs, in Yorkshire for instance, and the Cinque ports, particular qualifications were necessary [cries of No!]. The qualification necessary, to represent a Scots county might, be purchased for a small sum.Sir G. Warrender
l. expressed his willingness to concur in the motion, and he did so under the impression that there was a possibility that the sovereign might, before his death, become sensible to the objects around him. If then, such an event was to take place, in what light could this paltry saying of 1,000l.Sir John Nicholl
, in explanation, stated, that if the hon. gentleman meant to insinuate that the motion had originated with any of his military friends, who were high in office, he laboured under a complete mistake.Sir. A. Hope
1021l.[1020 rose to make his promised motion, to continue the six equerries making part of his majesty's establishment at Windsor, instead of reducing the number to four as recommended in the report of the select committee. The proposition he was about to make was, he said, so reasonable, that he confidently expected
1021l.[1020Sir Alexander Hope
[10281027 presented a petition of the there undersigned inhabitants of the city and liberty of Westminster having a right to vote at the election of citizens to serve in parliament for the said city and liberty, on behalf of themselves and others, was delivered in, and read; setting forth,[10281027Sir Francis Burdett
l[1030 observed, that he had so shaped his motion on the present subject, as to allow him to hope that the information he sought from the board of ordnance would not be refused. And he begged to premise, that in seeking for that information, he had no intention of urging any charge against the ordnance department or the Treasury for their conduct in the transaction. Sales had been made of articles principally consist-
l[1030Mr. Alderman Wood
 said, that the proposed amendment increased his objection to the motion. The contract Was still going on, and it was proper to have a scrupulous regard for the interest of the person with whom the con-tract had been made.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 could not help thinking, that; no sufficient reason had been as signed for departing from the principle of public competition. He knew little of the nature of the contract in question; but he could not conceive what harm could possibly accrue to the gentleman Who Had contracted, by making public life terms of his contract.Mr. Baring
1029, in pursuance of notice, rose to move for leave to bring in a Bill "to amend certain provisions of the 26th of George 2nd, for the better preventing of Clandestine Marriages." The immediate object of this bill would be, to amend that part of the existing law which referred to the marriage of minors, and his remedy intended to apply to such marriages whether by licences or banns. As the Jaw now stood, any
1029Dr. Phillimore
 said, the hon. gentleman was not justified in attributing to him any motives of personal interest.Mr. Grenfell
l.,l1031 said, he should like to know why the board of Ordnance had de-parted from the principle usually observed by all other public boards, of giving an opportunity of fair and general competition? The hon. gentleman had stated, that that departure was in concurrence with the suggestion of a finance committee; but that was no reason for the adoption of a course
l.,l1031Mr. Grenfell
lll[1032 said, that the hon. mover Was too intimately connected with the interests concerned, not to be biassed in his views of the matter. As for the hon. gentleman who had spoken so much of fair honest, and open competition, there was one other word which might have been very properly substituted among individuals combination; for the effects of a proceeding as he recommended was always rather a combination among was, than a public competition. The average prices obtained for the articles in question, by means of the contract with Mr. Samuels, were as good as would have obtained for a much
lll[1032Mr. R. Ward
ll said, that the particulars and sales of such stores had already been minutely inquired into and reported upon. It would be in the recollection of the House, that that report stated, that there was a great quantity of stores on hand, which it was the duty of the board of ordnance to dispose of as soon as possible; not only because they were of a perishable nature, but because of the expense which would be incurred by the buildings necessary for their deposit; and it was also their duty, in a financial point of view, because of the money to be raised by their sale. The committee on the peace-establishment desired to know to what extent they might depend on the proceeds of Ordnance stores during three years. It was found impossible to raise any considerable sum, by the regular sales at the Tower, and by other tenders—say 100,000llMr. Robert Ward
—[1038l said, he held in his hand a petition praying for the total repeal of the Window tax in Ireland. It was from the populous and important city which he had the honour to represent, and was roost numerously and respectably signed. Among the signatures, were by far the most part of the respectable population of Cork. The petitioners appealed to the justice, the humanity, and the sound policy of that House in soliciting the re-repeal of a tax, the existence of which had been found extremely injurious to the health of the people of Cork. They stated that this tax was originally imposed as a war tax, the chancellor of the exchequer at the time of its imposition, expressly stating that it was meant to continue for only three years, of during the war. But this tax was found exceedingly injurious, not only in Cork, but throughout all Ireland. The injurious effects of this tax to the health of the people, he could state from his own observation. The prevalence and wide-spread malignity of the typhus fever, which had of late years committed such ravages in Ireland, was in a great degree to be attributed to the operation of this tax; for this tax served to extend the prevalence, and aggravate the severity of this direful disease, the poorer orders, who were unable to pay that tax, being necessitated to shut up their windows, and thus to exclude the air. He hoped that this subject would shortly be taken into the consideration of the House, and it could not fail to interest the attention of every just and humane mind. The petitioners observed, that parliament had in its justice repealed the income tax at the conclusion of the peace, because it was originally laid on as a war duty; and a hope was very naturally expressed, that the same measure of justice would be dealt out with respect to the Irish Window tax. It was also seen by the petitioners, that parliament had very recently repealed so much of the tax upon husbandry in this part of the empire, as equal in amount to the whole produce of the window tax in Ireland, namely, 200,000[1038lMr. Hutchinson
l1039†llllll said, that the proposed measure, with reference to the accumulation of public money in the hands of the Bank of England, was by no means what the House had a right to expect from the repeated statements and declarations of the chancellor of the Exchequer since the commencement of the session, and particularly those of the 1st February, and of Friday last. Those statements and declarations were calculated to mislead and disappoint the public, and in fact the public had been misled and disappointed. He would venture to appeal to every member in the House, to the chancellor of the exchequer, and to the country at large, whether what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman did not amount to this—that as public money had accumulated in the hands of the Bank of England to the amount of 7,000,000l1039†llllllMr. Grenfell
ll[1040 said, that the very title of this bill, certainly the resolution he moved for in the committee of the whole House, was the best answer to the hon. gentleman's observations. The title was for the application to the public service of a part of the growing produce of the consolidated fund. It professed solely to refer to the exchequer bills account, which was certainly only one (though a very important one) of the 36 accounts of balances. The hon. gentleman was well aware, that since the peace, the public balances in the hands of the Bank had been reduced to six or seven millions; he must also know, that with respect to several of these balances, the sums for instance from the court of chancery, in the hands of the accomptant-general, and the monies for the public creditor, he had no control, as their appropriation was specifically enjoined by a distinct act of parliament. He could assure the House, that in the general public departments, where cash must be in the first instance deposited for the ordinary transactions of business, care was always taken not to leave a deposit for a larger sum than would cover the exigencies of a week or ten days in advance. There. was, it was true, another branch of public balances in the hands of the Bank, he meant the revenue balances, which were no longer suffered to remain in the hands of private bankers, in the names of the receivers general and these were weekly and sometimes oftener, paid over
ll[1040The Chancellor of the Exchequer
ll1041l begged to ask the right hon. gentleman, what was his own undertaking when first he announced to the House his intention of making the public balances in the Bank available to the public service? Was it not that he contemplated the reduction from seven millions to one, applying thereby six millions to the use of the public? He now asked, whether in the answer, or rather no answer, he had given to the speech of his hon. friend, he had not altogether abandoned that intention? These Bank balances consisted of two descriptions—one from the growing produce of the consolidated fund, the other arising from the general receipts of the departments of the government. How came it then, that the proposed measure was now reduced to so limited a scale? He verily believed the chancellor of the exchequer would, if he could, have been consistent, but the truth was, that he was overruled by the Bank, and consequently obliged to hedge from his original engagement. As to these six millions being made available, he believed such a hope had no existence but in the imagination of the chancellor of the exchequer. He, however, first look credit for 3,300,000ll1041lMr. Tierney
[1042 replied, that his bill went to regulate the whole question respecting the exchequer balances, and he could not consent to postpone it for the object alluded to; at the same time, he felt no. difficulty in admitting, that the whole of the other
[1042The. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that all he wanted was, to know the effect of the principle of this bill. If the bill were referred to a committee, he would pledge his existence they would make no such report as the right hon. gentleman had made in anticipation of its efficacy.Mr. Tierney
ll observed, that he had found no reason to depart from the explanation he had given on a former occasion, namely, that 3,300,000llMr. Lushington
 pressed the right hon. gentleman to state, in what manner he expected to have between two and three millions available to go in reduction of the Bank loan.Mr. Tierney
 replied, that he expected the amount would turn out to be as he had already stated it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 repeated, that all he desired to know was, what was the probable amount of the sum which was expected to accrue at the end of the quarter, when this bill was to come into operation?Mr. Tierney
 replied that he thought the average amount alluded to would be about three millions, as far as he could judge.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
.—The right hon. gentleman says he believes, as far as he can judge, the quarter's average will be about three millions; now, as far as I can judge, I don't believe a single word of it.Mr. Tierney
per diem,d asked, what was to be done respecting the exchequer bills which and been issued at an interest of 2per diem,dMr. Grenfell
 replied that they would be subject to the usual regulations.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
dd desired to know whether the Bank had not received an interest at the rate of 2½ddMr. Maberly
1043 replied, that whenever they had held over those bills, they received the interest according
1043The Chancellor of the Exchequer
dddd said, he understood it was admitted, that where the public only derived an interest of 2ddddMr. Maberly
 thought it now quite clear, that after the public were shut out from receiving interest on exchequer bills, which had been held over after a certain day, the Bank continued to obtain an exclusive amount of interest.Mr. Williams
 again protested against the provisions of this bill. Why was its operation restricted to the saving of the interest on six millions, which was expected to accrue out of the exchequer? The amount first accruing was, after the arrear on the consolidated fund was settled, to be applied to the payment of the Bank Joan. He referred to the quarterly accounts, and said it was impossible to carry this saving higher than three millions by the present bill. He pointedly condemned the limitation of the operation of this bill, and asked, why it should not be made to apply to the whole amount of the growing produce of the consolidated fund? He could see no reason why this should be the case, except that the attempt to make it so, however beneficial to the public, Would trench an the profits of the Bank.Mr. Grenfell
 said, that this bill was made only by way of experiment, and its principle might hereafter be extended to the other, balances. In his present plan, he kept in view the principle of the negotiation between Mr. Perceval and the Bank, in 1808.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that from the ambiguity of the explanations offered in the committee, he was more than ever convinced of the necessity of referring the Subject to the Finance Committee.Mr. Maberly
 said, the system now proposed protected the interests of the public creditor as much as any that could be devised.Mr. Huskisson
 said, that persons complained to him that the regulations were so vexatious, that they Would rather forego the advantages held out, than subject themselves to the vexation and inconvenience imposed upon them.Mr. Kennedy
 said, that he could not allow himself to overlook the observation of the hon. mover with respect to the Comparatively reduced amount of the salt tax in Ireland. If the hon. member expected that an augmentation of the Salt duty in Ireland would be the result of any such revision as he had alluded to, that hon. member would, he had no doubt, find his calculation erroneous, since it was understood, that no advance was to take place in the articles of salt and coals.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
[1064 wished shortly to state the reasons why he should vote for the motion of his hon. friend. He agreed with his hon. friend, who had just sat down, as to the real grounds on which ministers were determined to keep up offices like those now proposed to be reduced. Anxious as he was to support every measure of practical economy, and convinced that there was no other remedy by which we could recruit our exhausted resources or impart new vigour to the state; yet he would still be cautious how he approached the ancient fabric of the constitution, or diminished the just patronage of the Crown. But it was his firm conviction, that so far from there being any danger of diminishing the just patronage of the Crown, the influence of the Crown was already overgrown. He did not wish to excite a cry out of the House, against the House, or against public men, nor would he allow himself to be guided in any part of his conduct by popular clamour. But when he considered the extended influence of the Crown, and when he considered the numerous army which was placed at the command of that Crown, when he considered the influence arising from the collection of so large a' revenue, he could only come to the conclusion, that the power of the Crown was too great and ought to be diminished; and he thought therefore that every motion which like the present had for its object to reduce within proper limits the influence of the government ought to be adopted. Though the gallant admiral had endeavoured to prove that the offices in question, were indispensably necessary to discharge the business of the Admiralty, yet he must say, that he, for one, could not comprehend why the board should have more to do how in time of peace, than when we were at War with the whole world. The hon. baronet who brought forward the present motion, had proved by figures the truth of many of his positrons. In time
[1064Mr. Graham
1067 said, that there were certain great political principles which ought to regulate the opinions of every public man. His hon. friend opposite had appealed to one of those principles in saying that he would vote for the present mo-
1067Mr. Long Wellesley
[10661065 said, be could not help thinking that the hon. member who had just sat down, and who had declared that he would vote against the motion,
[10661065Lard John Russell
 implored ministers, as well as that House, seriously to consider the importance of salt to the agricultural interest, as well as to our fisheries, and expressed a hope that some measure would be adopted upon this subject, agreeably to the just claims of both.Mr. Davenport
 said, that till he heard the speech of the gallant admiral, he was in favour of the motion: now he would vote against it, as he conceived from that speech, that the number of the commissioners was hot greater than the business required.Mr. Cumming
1063[10621061 said, he rose to make some answer to what he dared to say the gentlemen on the opposite side of the House thought a very important speech. It would not be doing justice to the gallant admiral, if he did not allow that this character applied to a considerable part of it; but he thought at the same time that this speech of the gallant admiral proved too much. That speech went to prove that the number of commissioners was too great in time of war. According to the gallant admiral, in time of war, the fleets were divided into ten or twelve squadrons, and all that the Admiralty board had to do then, was to correspond with the commanding officer of each squadron. But now, in time of peace, the commissioners had to correspond with tight or ten thousand officers scattered over all parts of the globe; and to examine into a great variety of plans; and all this could not possibly be got through without the assistance of the two junior lords. His speech reminded him very much of that which was made by an hon. gentleman (Mr. Groker) a year or two ago, when it was proposed to abolish the office of paymaster of widows' pensions. Then the House, for the first time, heard of the great importance of the office, and of the laborious duties which the person who filled it had to discharge; the necessity of keeping up a correspondence with sixteen hundred widows. Surely the gallant admiral would hardly seriously contend that there was as much business for the board, now that such a diminution had taken place in the number of ship, commanders, and men employed, as there was in time of war. The true defence against this motion, was that which was stated when the subject was last before the House, namely that it was necessary to keep up the offices now proposed to be reduced, as a school of education for young persons who meant to dedicate themselves to politics, who could not be trained to business without these means. This was the true defence, and not that which the gallant admiral had set up; for it was impossible that the business of the Admiralty could bear any proportion now, to what it was during was. The way he was inclined to deal
1063[10621061Mr. Calcraft
sss said, he still retained the opinions with which he entered the committee of the last session, which opinions were indeed strengthened by the evidence taken before that committee, and therefore he adhered to the first resolution, which it adopted, namely, that it was desirable to repeal this tax, but that, from the state of our income and expenditure, the committee were restrained from instructing its chairman to move the House for a total repeal. He was himself thoroughly persuaded, that so long as salt was under the excise, the consumption of that article would not be as extensive as it might be, especially among the agriculturists. But an opportunity would next year offer of entering fully into the consideration of the subject—when a revision of the Irish taxes was to be expected. The difference between the Salt tax in Ireland and in Great Britain was very remarkable indeed; for while in England the tax was 15sssMr. Calcraft
ss1033l, rose pursuant to notice, to move for some returns respecting the salt duties, and though he was aware there would be no objection to his motion, yet he felt it necessary, upon this important subject, to state what he intended to do individually upon it. He was fully aware, when considering this subject in the committee, of the many evils and hardships which the duties produced; but he could not shut his eyes to the necessity of supporting the revenue at that time, and particularly so at the present. He could not lose sight of the fact, that these duties produced the sum of 1,500,000ss1033lMr. Calcraft
10351l observed, that the tax under consideration was the most unjust and oppressive of which the country had to complain, and especially in its operation against the interest of agriculture. He was, from experience, enabled to speak of the great good that might be derived to agriculture from the use of salt. But this article was not merely beneficial to agriculture; for it was found of great utility to sheep, horned cattle and horses. Following the plan of that able and diligent individual, sir Thomas Barnard, he had made use of salt to some extent, and so had other agriculturists with whom he was acquainted. He was convinced it would be generally used by farmers, if it were not for the amount of the tax. He had indeed, no doubt, that the duty might be very materially reduced, without any diminution of the revenue, because that reduction would very much increase the consumption of salt. His calculation was, that were the duty materially reduced, the annual consumption of salt among the agriculturists, would be equal to between 2 and 300,000 tons. The reduction ought, with this view to amount to the difference between 3410351lMr. Curwen
, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the Bankrupt Laws. He observed, that, in calling the attention of the House to this subject, he meant not to enter into the history of those laws. There were, he was convinced, many gentlemen in that House who believed they were not interested in this question, because they imagined that the bankrupt laws did not affect them. It was, however, very difficult to say, who were, or who were not, subject to them. In fact, persons who were never directly connected with trade, might, as appeared from recent decisions, be subjected to the operation of those acts. That a revision of the laws should take place, was most important to the interests of the commercial world, and more so, to the interests of humanity. He should say no more at present, but move "That leave be given to bring in a bill to alter and amend the laws relating to Bankrupts."—Leave given.Mr. J. Smith rose
 said, that every man who had read the minutes of the last committee must be satisfied of the necessity of the repeal of the tax, or the great lowering of the duty. The farmers would never use it generally, unless the duty was lowered.Mr. Tremayne
 declared his conviction that the salt tax should be repealed altogether, because the existence of such a tax was repugnant to the primary principles of political economy. He therefore should feel great regret if the proceedings of the committee at the last session were to have no other termination than the adoption of such a bill as that alluded to. Thinking the tax under consideration to be totally pernicious, he could neither subscribe to the theories of the hon. mover, nor accede to the bill contemplated by the right hon. gentleman on the treasury bench; for in his opinion the tax should be done away with altogether, oppressive as it notoriously was upon the country. He would ask whether a tax which bore with so much severity upon the poor ought to be tolerated in any shape? Salt was so much an article of necessity, and in such general use among the poorer orders, that even were the tax reduced to the sum suggested by the hon. member for Carlisle, the effect would still be to subject every cottager to the payment of about two pounds a year. Thus the imposition would operate as an income tax to that amount upon a very useful, and the most distressed class in the country. He agreed, that the reduction of the tax would serve to render it more productive on the whole; but he was a decided enemy to the entire principle of the tax because it operated not only to oppress the poor, but to injure the interests of agriculture, and materially to impede the progress of our fisheries, by giving to foreigners who were exempt from any such tax a decisive advantage over our own countrymen. He threw out the consideration of the House, the propriety of reducing the tax progressively for Tour or five years, and then repealing the tax altogether.Dr. Phillimore
 observed, that no tax bore so hard upon the poorer classes as that of salt. He could hot, however; in the present state of our finances, press for the repeal of that tax, if a substitute for it were not provided; but so obnoxious was this tax, that he could not hesitate to express his readiness to, support any substitute in preference to it.Mr. Grenfell
[1034 perfectly concurred in the statement of the hon. gentleman, that in the present state of the country, so large a portion of the revenues as the amount of the salt-duties could not be taken away. He heard, therefore, with pleasure, the hon. member's declaration, that he did not intend to agitate the question during the present session. The hon. member had alluded to the committee; he should say, that though the labours of that committee had not been productive of the result of removing the tax, yet great good had been obtained by them: they had examined into all the arguments and objections against the tax: they saw what were the evils to which it gave rise in some instances, and they also saw that many of those objections were without foundation, and that many of the evils ware highly exaggerated. He him-
[1034Mr. Wallace
 supported the motion, and recommended a reduction of this tax.Mr. Egerton
 took the earliest opportunity of repelling the personal attack made upon him by the hon. baronet.Sir G. Cockburn
1059[10581057[1056 said, that the hon. baronet had spoken of the patronage used by a member of the board of Admiralty for electioneering purposes at Portsmouth. He had the honour to represent that borough, and he, therefore, indignantly repelled that charge, as he would any charge made against his conduct either in or out of that House. He had a plain tale to state on the subject. As soon as the reductions which had taken place in the navy were determined upon by the Admiralty board, it was decided that the three senior chaplains of the navy should be appointed chaplains to the three ports—the senior to Portsmouth, the second to Plymouth, and the third to Chatham. As soon as that decision was taken, orders were issued for a return of the names of the three senior chaplains. In the answer to those orders, the first name was that of Mr. Cuthbert. Now, was it his (sir G. Cock-burn's) duty, because he was a member for Portsmouth, to say that that gentleman should not be appointed the chaplain there? Such was the simple fact on which the hon. baronet had made so many extraordinary remarks. As he was on his legs, he would say a few words on the motion before the House. The hon. baronet founded that motion principally on the great reduction that had taken place in the business of the board of Ad-
1059[10581057[1056Sir G. Cockburn
 had to thank the gallant admiral for his favourable opinion; but in answer to what had fallen from him respecting a noble lord, late one of the commissioners, he could assure him that that noble lord took his turn at the Admiralty, and indeed was there very constantly.Sir G. Cockburn
, after bearing testimony to the assiduity with which his gallant friend who had just spoken (as well as the other naval members of the Admiralty board) discharged his duty, said, he should like to know whether a lay commissioner, who had lately retired, had ever discharged any one duty connected with his office, or signed one paper, except the receipt for his salary? Of another of the lay lords he could venture to affirm nearly, the same thing. For his part, he begged never to hear of any such lords. In former times the commissioners, who Were not naval men, were at least men of business But now what was the board composed of? Some of the members were men who never knew any thing of business—young gentlemen who were seen, riding in Hyde Park from morning to night. When lord Howick was at the head of the Admiralty, he was never out of it from morning to night; and his gallant friend opposite was also most assiduous in his attendance. But what was done by the lay commissioners? Did they not throw all the fatigue on the three naval lords?Sir I. Coffin
[1060 said, that he would not have hazarded the assertion respecting the chaplains of the navy, had not the
[1060Sir M. W. Ridley
 disclaimed any intention of making a personal attack on the gallant admiral.Sir M. W. Ridley
1055[10541053[10521051[1050║1049[10481047[10461045 rose, in consequence of the notice which he had already given, to move an Address to his Royal Highness the Prince Regent, praying that he would be graciously pleased to give directions for a reduction in the number of Junior Lords of the Admiralty. He was sensible of the peculiar difficulty of the task he had undertaken. It was with great diffidence that he at any time ventured to address the House; but on the present occasion more particularly he felt diffident of his ability to arrest their attention, because he was aware, that it was scarcely in his power to throw any additional light on a subject which had already been so thoroughly discussed. He was cheered however by the consciousness that he was performing a public duty, and he trusted, that in the importance of the question itself the House would forget the inadequacy of the individual by whom it was brought under their consideration. He confessed that he had almost flattered himself he should be prevented from finding any necessity for the performance of this task. Recollecting the opinions delivered in the House of Commons at the time when he had formerly taken the liberty to introduce this subject, recollecting that he was oh that occasion supported by as numerous a minority as ever divided on a question of that nature, he
1055[10541053[10521051[1050║1049[10481047[10461045Sir M. W. Ridley
 observed, that such a ferment had been excited throughout the country, in consequence of an expected alteration in the coal-duties, that it had become the duty of ministers to declare their intentions on the subject openly and specifically, in order to allay the anxiety which had been created.Lord Folkestone
[1072 said, that he had expressed himself as explicitly as he could upon this subject on a former occasion. He would, however, repeat what he had then said, in order that no future mistake might arise. He thought that it would be neither expedient, nor
[1072The Chancellor of the Exchequer
lcustos regisllcustos regis1073lll rose, he said, not to animadvert upon any of the amendments which had just been adopted, but to take that opportunity of stating his opinion upon the clause in the bill, which related to the grant of 10,000lcustos regisllcustos regis1073lllLord Folkestone
[1076l1075l observed, that the reception which the remarks of his noble friend had met with, and the little attention which ministers seemed disposed to show them, held out but a slender encouragement to him to address the House upon this occasion. But still he felt it his duty to say, that if the grant alluded to was made, it would be quite scandalous to vote that grant upon false pretences. To the grant itself he had strong objections, but he urged those objections with great pain, for although the case was stated to relate merely to the grant of a certain allowance to a public officer, it was still, in many respects a personal question, and upon such a question, every man must feel it painful to state an objection, especially where a member of the royal family was adverted to. But it was among the serious faults of the present administration, to make the members of the royal family the subject of discussion in that House, as well as out of doors, with respect to pecuniary questions. The conduct of those ministers during the last session, could not soon be forgotten, when they pressed such propositions as served to render that House popular, by opposing pecuniary grants to several members of the royal family, and such conduct could not easily be forgiven by the real friends of that illustrious family. But the duke of York, who was spared on that occasion, and whose character stood high in the country, notwithstanding a certain event, to which he did not mean particularly to advert, was in the present instance dragged forward by those ministers in a most exceptionable manner; for what could be more exceptionable than to propose a pecuniary grant to his royal highness upon false pretences. But nothing was more remarkable than the sophistries adduced in support of this grant. It was argued that it was essential to the maintenance of the dignity of the duke of York to annex 10,000[1076l1075lThe hon. Mr. Lyttelton
l suggested, that there was a verbal inaccuracy in the preamble which ought to be corrected. The 10,000lMr. Wynn
 thought the words employed unexceptionable: the same terms could not be applied to the queen and the duke of York; and if they were more general in the present instance, they were on that very account less liable to objection.Lord Castlereagh
ll1079 hoped, the House in this instance would legislate practically, not theoretically. The present bill was of the latter description, and the practice of legislating on theoretical principles for practical purposes, he totally disapproved of. From the most mature deliberation, he found himself imperatively called upon to oppose the bill. Although all the eloquence might be on the other side, yet he flattered himself that all the argument would be found on his side. The bill professed to detect and prevent poachers; in his opinion, it would tend to increase, rather than diminish them. The poacher would find a new stimulus to his nefarious pursuits, by the provisions of this bill, and whenever he got possession of game, he would
ll1079Sir John Shelly
l1089 said, he had heard objections made to several of the clauses, but there were none of them that might not, in his opinion, be got over, and, therefore, he should vote for the second reading of the bill. It was due to the hon. gentleman who introduced it, and to the committee who came to the resolution on which the bill was founded, to suffer it to proceed, and to see, whether, in its progress, they could not remove the objectionable parts. With respect to the objections of the hon. gentleman on the floor (Mr. Bankes), they did not strike him in the same point of view they did the hon. gentleman. He was not sorry to see those provisions retained to which the hon. gentleman urged his strongest objections. One of his observations was, however, correct. He had stated, that the number of criminals imprisoned for offences against the game laws, at present were less than they used to be. This, he believed was the fact; but the circumstance was owing to a bill introduced into that House by a near relative of the hon. gentleman. In one clause of that bill were was a very great, omission. Every person purchasing game, was, by that clause, subject to a
l1089Mr. Cripps
[1082 said, that the objects of the present bill appeared to him to be two; the one to prevent poaching, and the other to secure the proprietors of estates. It was found, that the present game laws, strict as they were, could not preserve game. Now the present bill would take away all restriction whatever; and he never yet found that to take away a security tended to preserve a thing. As to the recommendation of granting licences, he could not see what good they would effect. Licenses were granted to various persons to sell tea, tobacco, or spirits, yet it had not-been found that those licences
[1082Lord Clive
 said, that, fond as he was of the sports of the field, he could not give his assent to the continuance of a system of laws vicious and tyrannical in principle, and which, in point of fact, could seldom or ever be put in execution. As a proof of this, it had been already stated, that the sale of game was carried on to an immense extent, in defiance of laws the most unjust and most odious to the public, ever passed. The legislature had certainly enacted some statutes on this head, contrary to the general spirit of our law, and to all our notions of liberty and equity. The act which was passed last session had excited throughout the country the greatest disgust; so much so, that no magistrate had ever put it in force, without the strongest feelings of reluctance and aversion. The recommendation of the hon. member he could by no j means assent to. It would certainly be j very curious to find parliament legalizing the sale of that which it had been for so many years endeavouring to prevent.Mr. Long Wellesley
1083║ of Norfolk, said, he had always looked upon these laws as most odious ones. He was an old member of that House, and he remembered, about six and thirty years ago, that a bill was introduced, which gave to keepers and others a right to take up persons found walking about the grounds of their employers; which bill was afterwards withdrawn, on a prosecution having been commenced, by virtue of its enactments, against an individual, who took the opinion of the three most distinguished lawyers of their time upon the subject: they gave it as their opinion that game was, legally, private property: upon which the act was withdrawn. Those lawyers were lord Kenyon, Mr. Dunning, and Mr. Lee. He should hope that the framers of this bill, in bringing it in, had not merely the preservation of game in view, but the good of their country. As to the mere preservation of game, he thought an attention to farming, agriculture, or any other useful amusement or rational pursuit, infinitely more
1083║Mr. Coke
1085[1084 adverting to the circumstance mentioned by the hon. member for Norfolk, observed that the injury sustained by the poor woman was the result not of the game laws, but of the wanton, or it might be accidental, act of the gamekeeper. What was there in the bill before the House which would prevent the recurrence of a similar event? He contended that
1085[1084Mr. Bankes
1087[1086 observed, that the hon. member for Corfe Castle had entirely misunderstood the nature of the accident which was described by the hon. member for Norfolk, as having happened to a woman in some cover or other. That woman had not been shot by a game-keeper, but by a spring-gun. [Mr. Coke observed, that he had certainly stated, that the woman had been shot by a game-keeper.] Colonel Wood apologized for his error. The bill before the House would, however, prevent even such accidents; for if game were made private property, that petty warfare between the higher and the lower orders, between the game-keeper and the poacher, would be at an end, and the ferocious practice of shooting, whether by spring-guns or otherwise, would be checked. Gentlemen set no spring-guns to protect their turnips or their poultry. He denied that the bill would increase the number of poachers, by assuring them of a market; for no man went out at present to poach, before he was assured of a market for the game he took; otherwise it would spoil before he could sell it. He believed that if the bill passed, although there would still be stealers of game, as well as there were now stealers of poultry, yet that the majority of those who dealt in game would be honest dealers. When a measure was sometime ago in the House on the subject, the poulterers of
1087[1086Colonel Wood
dsl1093ll[1092dsllllslll1091 said, it was not his intention to enter upon the hacknied topics of the public burthens and the duty of that House. He meant merely to justify himself for affirming that the expenses in
dsl1093ll[1092dsllllslll1091Mr. Hutchinson
ll suggested, that there was a Resolution before the House that 79,154llThe Speaker
 said, he did not wish to negative the grant, as the money had been expended; he would therefore propose his resolution after the question before the House was disposed of.Mr. Hutchinson
[10961095llll[1094, in rising to give the explanations required by the hon. gentleman, said, he could not promise to speak to every point, as there were several totally out of his own department, and which be must refer to his right hon. friend. He perfectly understood the hon. gentleman not to have meant any thing like a personal charge by his motion, but to have brought it forward merely out of a sense of duty, to enforce an economical application of the public money. With respect to the fitting out of the royal yacht, he could say nothing, for he knew nothing. As to the expense incurred at Aix-la-Chapelle, the observations of the hon. member had been rather of a political than a financial nature. The hon. gentleman had said, that a king's messenger could have transacted the business as well as himself and his noble friend. If such observations had been made when the treaties and protocols concluded at Congress were laid on the table, they might have deserved an answer. If the hon. gentleman, however, required any explanations on the head of expense, he would not refuse the most ample. By examining the account, he would find that there had been no improvident waste of the public money, and that the sums expended had been less than on former missions of the game nature. With regard to the item of charge for his imperial highness the grand duke, who lately visited this country, all that he would say was, that
[10961095llll[1094Lord Castlereagh
lll said, that as to the practice of giving snuff-boxes and such presents, it was, he would admit, one of long standing, and might in some respects have been called for by circumstances'; but he trusted it was an expense which the country would not be called upon to pay in future. He gave credit to the noble lord for the statement he had made; and he would add, that, from circumstances which had come to his knowledge, the noble lord had not done himself justice. He conceived that the House and the country owed the noble lord a great deal for his conduct at Aix-la-Chapelle, where the resolution that, had been proposed at the meeting of ministers for interchanging presents for each of the treaties which had been concluded, had been objected to by him, and only one present interchanged in lieu of many. This was conduct for which he conceived the noble lord deserved credit, where he had the practice of other times to urge him to a contrary mode of proceeding. There were in the account some other items, of which, though the amount was comparatively small, he conceived the principle ought not to be agreed to. It was the practice of going to much expense for the royal personages who happened to visit this country. He was not averse from having every necessary attention paid to those illustrious strangers, but he conceived we were not bound to pay all their expenses whilst here; or if that principle was to be contended for, he would suggest, that those who were appointed to attend them in their tour should be a little more economical. He saw that the expenses of one of the grand dukes, whilst at an hotel in Edinburgh, was charged 100lllSir M. W. Ridley
 observed, that the hon. baronet was right in saying that his noble friend had objected to the interchange of presents among the ministers, for each treaty which had been concluded; but he was not correct in mentioning that circumstance as having occurred at Aix-la-Chapelle. It was true that at Aix-la-Chapelle, there was only one present interchanged between the several ministers; but the circumstance to which the hon. baronet had so candidly alluded in respect to his noble friend, occurred at the congress of Vienna, where a resolution was proposed that presents should be given for each treaty, but this was objected to by his noble friend, and on his suggestion one present was interchanged for all the treaties; whereas, if, according to custom, they had interchanged one for the conclusion of each treaty, the number would have amounted to forty-five.Mr. Canning
 moved the order of the day for the further consideration of the report on this bill.The Attorney General
v[11001099ultimum remediumjudicia Dei[1098judicia Dei said, the bill was called a bill for the abolition of trial by battle, but it went also to take away the right of appeal, with which, he conceived, it had nothing whatever to do, any more than with an indictment at common or statute law. In fact, the trial by battle might be considered as completely obsolete. The principle was—"cessante ratione cessat lex; "and he conceived that here, as well as in the cases of trial by ordeal, by fire and water, and by receiving the sacrament, and other cases where the v[11001099ultimum remediumjudicia Dei[1098judicia DeiSir F. Burdett
1103§[11021101 said, he understood the hon. baronet's object to be that of preserving the right of appeal, while he agreed in the propriety of; abolishing the trial by battle; but according to his own feelings upon the question, he would
1103§[11021101Mr. Serjeant Copley
 insisted that there were statutes which took away the right of pardoning murder from the Crown, except in the cases he had already specified. He admitted, that if the person was found to be innocent, there ought to be a power to save him vested in the Crown; but that was not pardoning murder; it was preventing the execution of innocence. Though the right of appeal, in its present form, might be liable to many abjections, those objections were susceptible of remedy, and as it constituted come check of advantage to the subject, he could not consent to part with it, merely because there were disadvantages annexed.Sir F. Burdett
1105ex post facto justified the clause as absolutely necessary. If in the case of Ashford v. Thornton, the appellant had persevered in the trial, by battle, he had no doubt the legislature would have felt it to be their imperious duty at once to have interfered, and to have passed an 1105ex post factoThe Attorney General
 observed, that he had not referred to the statute of Gloucester.Sir F. Burdett
 added, that if the hon. baronet had not alluded to that statute, he must confess his total ignorance of any other taking away the power of the Crown to pardon; he believed—he was sure it did not exist.The Attorney General
 read the words of the statute 2nd Edw. 3rd, c. 2, which expressly provided that the king shall only grant pardons "in cases where the king may do it by his oath.'Sir F. Burdett
 said, that the hon. baronet had declared himself not satisfied as to the law of trial by battle not being obsolete. In reply to that, he would merely state, that the very case of Ash-ford and Thornton showed that it was not obsolete. There the appellce having thrown down his glove, and challenged a trial by battle, one of the counsel declared it to be his opinion, that such a proceeding was obsolete. The late lord chief justice Ellenborough immediately replied, that he could not see how that was the case, the act having never been repealed, and therefore was still a part of the law of the land.Mr. Serjeant Copley
[1110l1109[11081107l[1106 said:—Mr. Speaker; before this bill passes through its last stage, I cannot but express my concern, that all the beneficial results expected from it, and from the conventions between this country and the other powers of Europe, to which this and similar bills are intended to give effect, are likely to be frustrated, by the choice of Sierra Leone as the place of residence of the commissary judges and the commissioners of arbitration. The total unfitness of Sierra Leone as the place of adjudication for captured Negroes, has been so strongly stated by that gallant and lamented officer, the late sir James Lucas Yeo, in his official dispatches to the lords of the Admiralty, that I shall give it in his own words: "Another great objection to Sierra Leone, arises from its being at Such a distance directly to the windward of where
[1110l1109[11081107l[1106Mr. Marryat
 observed, that in settling an establishment on the coast of. Africa, for the adjudication of captured slave ships or the civilization of negroes, government had, in fact, no option. They were obliged to take Sierra Leone—no other suitable place being found. Cape Coast Castle and other places, which had been mentioned, were fully inquired about, and it was ascertained that none of these places could be fixed upon for the establishment alluded to by the hon. member, with safety to the object in view, to the protection of the negroes, in consequence of their defenceless condition, and their contiguity to the populous districts of Africa. Hence the establishment was made at Sierra Leone, the internal organization and general circumstances of which were, he was happy to, say, very materially improved of late, years. The noble lord concluded with assuring the hon. member that government had not come to a determination upon this subject without duly considering the letters of sir James Yeo, to which the hon. gentleman had referred, as well as; every other information that it was practicable to obtain, and that had any bearing upon the case.Lord Castlereagh
ex post facto[1104ex post facto said, that there was an objection to a part of this bill, which he wished to present to the consideration of the House and of the hon. and learned gentleman with whom it originated. The bill went to prohibit wager of battle not only in writs of right hereafter sued out, but in those now depending. The objection was, that as far as concerned any writs now depending, this prohibition was ex post facto[1104ex post factoMr. C. Tennyson
1077 said, he had always felt great respect for the personal character of the duke of York; but he had felt as he had before expressed, that in a discus-
1077Mr. Protheroe
lll1071slslllll[1070lll1069 presented a petition from William Weaver, complaining of his imprisonment under a prosecution by the commissioners of excise. The worthy alderman expressed his sorrow that the attorney-general had not acceded to the motion which had been made for an inquiry into Exchequer processes; and gave notice that he should himself bring forward some motion upon the expenses incurred in the
lll1071slslllll[1070lll1069Mr. Alderman Waithman
l[1090àprioriergo said, he could not recollect that a single argument of any force had been adduced against the bill. The market, it was observed, could be as easily supplied with stolen game as with stolen turnips. But the market was not supplied with stolen turnips, l[1090àprioriergoMr. Brand
[1088 conceiving the system of the game laws objectionable in the highest degree, thought that when a measure to supersede that system was brought before the House, it was their duty to give it a fair consideration. The bill was called a bill for the amendment of the laws for the preservation of game; but it might fairly be called a bill for the better protection of game, and for the prevention of poaching. It had been said, that the bill was full of absurd contradictions; that among other things, it first declared that game was the property of certain persons, and then allowed those persons to remain subject to penalties for using that property. Was it absurd to say, that those who had the land should have a right to the game on it in preference to all others? Was it subversive of the right of property to say, that that property should be put under regulation? Were not fisheries put under regulation? Were not the proprietors of fisheries limited to fish only in particular seasons? And was it not well known, that by means of these regulations fish continued to be preserved notwithstanding the open sale of it in the markets by those who had the property of it? He wished to see game preserved, and better laws for that purpose than those which existed at present; by giving an interest in the game to those who had the greatest power of preserving it. Was not this object more likely to be accomplished than by the existing laws? With respect to the comments of the hon. gentleman on the floor, on what had fallen from the hon. mover of the bill as to natural rights, they were altogether founded in misconception. God forbid that any person should insist on natural rights in a state of society! As well might it be said that every man had a natural right to the land of a country, as that certain persons had a natural right to the game on that land. But did it follow that, because you made game the property of the person on whose land it was, you therefore said he had a natural right to it? Property of various kinds was put under restrictions in this country. It was necessary, for instance, to have a license to deal in horses. For the sake of the morals of the people, public-houses were put under restriction. But it was contended by the hon. gentleman, that
[1088Mr. Frankland Lewis
l1081[1080 observed, that though no sportsman, he was as much alive as any man in that House, to the importance of keeping, by every possible inducement, the country gentlemen resident on their estates. He felt fully the value of such a custom, when he reflected on the exercise of those qualities which that class, the pride and honour of the kingdom were so conspicuous in cultivating, and to which might mainly be attributed the peculiar character this country had acquired. When he felt that result thus strongly, it could not be supposed that he would yield his support to any measure which tended to diminish so laudable an influence. But from the best views that he was enabled to give the proposed bill, combined with the opinions of others, on whose authority he could rely, he was persuaded that its effect would be to increase, not to diminish the quantity of game; while, on the other hand, it would produce amongst the population a growing indisposition to commit violations of
l1081[1080Mr. Wilberforce
[1074 stated, that the question
[1074The Speaker
 seconded this motion, and condemned the principle and tendency of the bill.Sir John Stewart
1117 presented a petition from John Thelwall, of Lincoln's Inn Fields, gentleman, setting forth,1117Sir F. Burdett
 expressed his surprise at the expense which this building had cost, and condemned the erection in it of a steam engine.Mr. Alderman Wood
 replied, that that plan had been adopted which seemed, in all respects, to be the most eligible for the attainment of health, security, separation, and inspection. The object of the steam engine was to grind corn, and raise water for the convicts, they being employed in such a way as would enable them to be useful to themselves and to the public on their liberation.Mr. Long
, while he admitted the propriety of the mode of employment adverted to by the right hon. gentleman, observed, that the water might have been raised, and the corn ground (as he had seen in a prison in Paris), by the labour of a very small portion of the prisoners.Mr. Alderman Wood
 observed, that a prison capable of containing the same number of felons might have been built at one-half the expense, he might almost say one-third. There were carpenters, shoemakers, and other trades at work in the Penitentiary. Indeed, no one could go there without seeing persons hard at work.Mr. Bennet
 stated, that a vertical wheel had been constructed in the prison at Aylesbury, for raising water to supply the prison and the town. The height to which the water was raised was 70 feet; eight men were employed at a time, and they were relieved every hour.Lord Nugent
 objected to the voting money for a steam engine. If they were to credit the newspapers, disturbances of a serious nature sometimes took place in the Penitentiary, and in his opinion, pumping water, grinding corn, and other severe labour, would be a proper punishment for the refractory.Mr. Hume
 observed, that the statement of disturbances in the Penitentiary was greatly exaggerated. There would be an end to the plan of separating the prisoners, if they were to be employed in raising water, for that would necessarily bring a number of them together.Mr. Holford
 wished the right hon. gentleman would state all the items on which he grounded this claim. It was asked for the Caledonian Canal; but where was Caledonia? The name and the race of the Caledonians had been extinct for 600 years; for since the thirteenth century there had been no such place as Caledonia. Tacitus had told us where Caledonia was in his time; but since that it had been inhabited by the Picts and the Scots. This canal, he believed was begun in 1803. He supposed it was then calculated what it would cost; but how much had been granted since? It was originally devised for the purpose of employing the labourers of Scotland; but all that benefit had been reaped by Ireland.Lord Carhampton
llll said, that the original estimate in 1803 was 500,000llllLord Binning
1121judicia Dei said, he thought it his duty to state the grounds on which he should give his vote on this bill. He meant that his observations should be addressed not to the present ministers only, but to all their successors; not to the present generation, but to all futurity. He begged to assure the attorney-general, that he gave him full credit for purity, of motive, and integrity of intention. When this bill was first brought in, none was a greater enemy than he was to the trial by wager of battle. That part of the bill which abolished all appeals to the judgment of Heaven, he most fully approved of. The practice of calling for 1121judicia DeiSir Robert Wilson
 said, he had heard a very able speech from a learned gentleman on the other side of the House, in support of the bill, but the right of appeal appeared so important to the liberty of the subject, that on that ground he would vote against the bill.Mr. Alderman Wood
l then moved, "That 50,000lMr. Arbuthnot
[11161115 presented a petition from Sheffield, setting forth[11161115Mr. Stuart Wortley
lslll[1114 begged to state the substance of a petition that had been intrusted to him by that respectable body the booksellers and publishers of London and Westminster, praying a repeal of the copy-right act. It was enough to mention the names of Messrs. Longman and Co., Messrs. Baldwin and Co., Messrs. Rivington, Mr. Murray, and Mr. Mawman, to secure it attention; in short, it had been signed by all the respectable booksellers of the metropolis. The Petition was then read, setting forth,lslll[1114Mr. Lambton
[1120 hoped the commissioners,
[1120Mr. Hume
ll said, that the canal was begun with the best prospect of success, and it was the opinion of every person qualified to judge, that it would be productive of the greatest benefits. It had been supposed, that while the trade to the Baltic would be benefited, labour would incidentally be provided to a great number of workmen, he believed that this incidental advantage had proved even greater than had been anticipated. The spirit of labour which had been introduced into that part of Scotland, was, in his opinion, worth more than all the money that had been voted. Of those who had been employed in this labour, there were not two in a hundred who were not Scotchmen; and surely the noble lord would not object that now and then a poor Irishman should be employed. The work had cost 700,000llMr. W. Smith
 said, he saw no reason to alter any opinion he had expressed on the subject. He did not think the wish for reform was by any means general.The Lord Advocate
 said, he was still persuaded that the great body of the Scots population did not desire any such alteration. Were they unanimous, it would be different, but they were not, and besides the petition from Hawick just presented, was not from a royal burgh. Much dependence could not be placed on those petitions, which came from a few interested persons.The Lord Advocate
 contended against the impolicy of government in refusing the same charter to the trades of Aberdeen, as they had granted to those in Montrose. In the latter borough the happy effects of such reform had been already felt.Sir R. Fergusson
[1130 trusted that the most vigorous and expeditious measures would be taken, in order to inquire into the conduct of governor Macquarrie. Such measures, it had been intimated, had been taken: whether or not they might not have been more effectually taken than they had been, or been instituted through a better channel than that adopted, he would not now inquire. He had only one observation at present to make; it was a most extraordinary circumstance that the House was informed, one day, of oppressions said to have been exercised by the governor as against the free settlers; and, on another day, of oppressions against the convicts. He thought it fair to infer, therefore, that in point of fact the governor had acted impartially to them both. The hon. and learned gentleman had alluded to the governor's having laid a restriction on the importation of spirits into New South Wales, which restriction he appeared to consider unwarrantable. It would be obvious how necessary such a restriction was for the welfare of the colony. He himself knew of one instance of this nature. A vessel had sailed from India for New South Wales, laden entirely
[1130Mr. Forbes
1141 thought, considering the eulogium which the right hon. baronet had passed on the natives of Scotland, it might have been expected, that if the power so reprobated had been of that grievous description, at least some one of those natives would ere this have raised his voice against it in that House. But, since the year 1707, up to the present moment, no person belonging to that country had ever complained of the power in question. The right hon. baronet had proceeded altogether under a misapprehension. In the first place, the courts of session and justiciary never declared that statutes were no longer binding on the natives of Scotland; but it was a fundamental principle, coeval with the law of that country, and a principle in that great code on which the law of Scotland was founded, and which was the law of all the countries of Europe, with the exception of England, namely the civil law, that laws enacted by the legislature, by contrary consuetude fell into desuetude, or became obsolete. The right hon. baronet had stated this as an assumed power contrary to law. But he would read a passage from the principle institutional writer of that country, Mr. Erskine, who stated the law in these terms [Here the learned lord read a passage in which it was declared, that as a posterior statute explained or repealed a former statute, so a posterior custom derogated from the authority of a prior statute.] This principle was also laid down by lord Stair, one of the most constitutional writers Scotland had ever produced. But this matter did not rest with institutional writers, nor the decisions of courts, recognized by the House of Lords; but it was also recognized in the great foundation of
1141The Lord Advocate
 explained.The Lord Advocate
 opposed the motion. If the custom of the judges of declaring laws in desuetude was monstrous, yet it was coeval with the existence of law in Scotland. If lord president Hope had used the expression imputed to him, he was certainly unfit to sit upon the bench. Statutes were declared in desuetude, not by acts of sederunt, but by decisions on special cases, argued by counsel. With those decisions the people of Scotland, the only persons interested, were well satisfied. Not a petition from them had been presented to the House on the subject: whereas, if the laws of Scotland had been attacked in that. House, the table would have been covered by petitions.Lord Binning
 paid a compliment to the right hon. mover, to whom he thought Scotland was indebted for the inquiry into its courts of justice. The inquiry proposed might do good, and could be productive of no evil.Mr. Forbes
 said, that though he was of opinion that the exercise of this power on the part of the Scots judges had been beneficial to the liberties of the people, yet the practice was such an outrage on principle, and so liable to abuse, that he thought the House bound at least to inquire into it.Mr. Kennedy
1143 observed that if the laws which were liable to be affected by
1143Lord A. Hamilton
 presented (similar petitions from Crail, Hawick, and Elgin.Lord A. Hamilton
 took an opportunity of contradicting a statement which had been made during the last session by the lord advocate that the people of Scotland were perfectly satisfied with the reform which his bill had provided. The reverse was clearly proved to be the case, by the number of petitions presented to the House.Lord A. Hamilton
 impressed upon the House the necessity of not placing the fullest reliance on petitions of this description, particularly when they called for what the petitioners were pleased to consider their inalienable rights. Had they confined themselves to a control over the expenditure of the burghs, or what was termed the common good, he was disposed to give his co-operation to the success of their application. A bill to that effect, he understood, was in preparation; and to that extent it should have his support.Mr. Boswell
 said, he happened to have the third part of the Scots acts in his pocket; and the hon. gentleman then read a passage from an act of Chas. 2nd, to show that the principle of acts of parliament being derogated by custom was recognized in these statutes themselves. It was one of the evils under which that country had suffered, that statute after statute was passed, without any one having ever been repealed. It had been said, that no individual of Scotland ever complained of this. He, as an individual, and many others, complained of this evil, namely, that a certain body of laws and acts were left in that sort of dubious state, that no person could say what act of parliament was in force and what was not, till it was brought before the court of session, and the matter was argued and the custom proved. It had been said by the learned lord, that many of the laws were absurd; but this was the Very objection he had to the system—if these laws were absurd, there was no doubt they ought to be repealed. As every man was bound to know what the law was, he ought to have it in as explicit a state as possible.Mr. Boswell
 stated, that under the present management of the royal burghs, the inhabitants were not only robbed of their rights, but almost of the power of giving expression to their grievances.Mr. F. Douglas
 had been acquainted for thirty years with the gallant officer in question, and declared that he had never known a man of more unquestionable character, or one who appeared to him to be less capable of any unjust or harsh proceeding.General Hart
[1138 denied that the governor had the power of punishing civil offences by corporal punishment. By the act of parliament crimes committed in New South Wales could be punished only as similar crimes were punished in this country. The single difference was, that in New South Wales trial by jury was not necessary if the alleged crime were committed by a convict. Corporal punishment was illegally inflicted for a trespass, or for any other civil offence. Having exercised an arbitrary power of taxation for upwards of twenty years, the hon. gentleman new came forward and said, at length we find we have been wrong, we ought to have bad tie sanction of an act of parliament for what we have been doing. For himself, he highly approved of the tax on spirits; hit only objection was, to the mode of imposing that tax.
[1138Mr. Bennet
jure belli said, the common law was the law of New South Wales, as well as of England, with one exception, namely, as to the mode of trial, which was peculiar to that colony, and which it had under an act of parliament. This was not the case in matters of taxation only, but also in all other subjects whatever. The case was different when the Crown conquered a colony jure belliMr. Brougham
[11281127[1126sl1125 said, he rose for the purpose of presenting two petitions from two individuals named Blake and Williams, free settlers at New South Wales, complaining of the conduct of governor Macquarrie. He felt it his duty to present them, having satisfied himself that they were couched: in respectful language. The truth of the allegations sat forth, must rest with the persons who signed them, but he must add, that he had made an inquiry respecting the petitioners, and the result satisfied him that they bore good characters, and were not likely wilfully to mislead the House. With respect to the conduct of governor Macquarrie he should say, that if culpable, he was disposed to consider such conduct rather as a fault of the system than of the man. He was placed in a situation of high and uncontrolled authority, in a distant settlement, under very peculiar circumstances—not alone peculiar from its distance, but from the character of a great portion of the people subject to his government, they consisting principally, on the arrival of governor Macquarrie, of convicts, although a very
[11281127[1126sl1125Mr. Brougham
 said, the learned lord had stated that the people of Scotland were satisfied with the present state of the burgh system. When petitions however came in signed by so many, he thought his learned friend should make some exception to that observation.Mr. Brougham
1137[11361135 thought it his duty to offer a few observations on the subject. All were agreed as to the propriety of an inquiry into the condition of the colony. The only difference of opinion was, with respect to the precise mode in which that inquiry ought to be conducted. The learned gentleman had stated, and truly stated, that the condition of New South Wales was such as to render some reform necessary; to which, however, the learned gentleman had most justly added, that the imperfections existing in the administration of that colony were attributable more to the peculiar circumstances in which it was placed than to the character of the individual placed at the head of the government. It had been truly observed by the learned gentleman, that at the outset of governor Macquarrie's administration the state of the colony was such as rendered it necessary to invest the governor with greater authority than that possessed by the governor of any other colony. The materials of which that colony was composed were so extremely combustible that it required a strong compressive force to prevent them from bursting into flames. When the learned gentleman drew a distinction between the conduct that ought to be observed towards the convicts and the free settlers, he begged him to recollect, that if it was necessary to discipline with severity those who were sent to the colony for crime, it was necessary that, the free part of the inhabitants should be placed under great restraint, with the view of enforcing the regulations against the offending part of the community. He would not enter into the reasons for this. It was evident that if, without any regard to circumstances, the free part of the community were left with power to administer to the vices, or to the excitement of the convict portion of the community, the tranquillity of the colony could not long be maintained. The fact was, that when an insurrection did break out in the colony, the greater part of those by whom it was instigated and conducted were of the class of free settlers. He stated this, not with any view to exempt the governor from the consequences of making any improper, use of the authority vested in him, if such improper use had been made; but he wished to impress on the House, that when the laws of the colony were broken, either by settler or by convict, the settler had no right to complain if he was subject
1137[11361135Mr. Goulburn
 contended, that the people of Scotland had a right to expect some redress. The situation of the very borough from which this petition came proved the necessity of a reform. He had a list in his hand of the magistrates of that town for the last twenty years, and he found that one set of magistrates presided this year, and the other set presided the next; and that the public property of Dundee had been let at half its value to friends of the magistrates. The petition was signed by nine-tenths of the population.Mr. Hume
[1142 considered the inhabitants of Scotland as greatly obliged to the right hon. baronet for the pains he had taken in bringing the laws of Scotland before the House. He was far from thinking that, because no individuals from Scotland had raised their voice against the power in question, there were therefore no grounds of complaint against it. Such was the state of the law of Scotland at this moment, that it was impossible for any man before he went into court to know whether any law was in force or not. But the court of session not only decided what laws were, or were not in force; they passed what were called acts of sederunt, setting aside the law of the land. Lord president Hope had declared that acts of sederunt suspended the law of the land. It had also been stated from the Bench, as appeared from Buchanan's Reports of Remarkable Cases—"I do not Care what an act of parliament says on the subject, for I know there is a power paramount to acts of parliament," namely, the court of session. In several cases great injustice had taken place, from the court of session having, by acts of sederunt, declared the provisions of acts of parliament no longer in force. By the Scotch
[1142Mr. Hume
[1124 said, that much of the confusion which had arisen in the funds of the Scots burghs was occasioned by the self election of the magistracy, and the want of control which the inhabitants had over the receipts and expenditure. The bill introduced last year was by no means adequate to remedy the evil. The expectation of the different incorporated trades in Scotland had been much excited by the charter given to Montrose; and he could
[1124Mr. W. Douglas
 observed, it was not difficult to make accusations of the nature of those now under consideration, when the object of them was many thousand miles distant, and unable to offer any defence. Governor Macquarrie, to his knowledge, was a man of high honour and character. He had served in the Bombay army for eighteen years with distinguished reputation, and had also been for some years under the earl of Harrington on the staff of the London district, where he was well known and greatly respected. It ought to be considered that the greatest subordination was indispensable among such persons as those who resided in New South Wales. Under all the circumstances, therefore, he trusted gentlemen would suspend their judgment, until a full opportunity was allowed for the development of the facts of the case.Mr. Manning
1129ex parte said, that he had known general Macquarrie for several years, and was much surprised to hear such charges brought against him. If the allegations contained in the petitions were true, he could only say that general Macquarrie must have completely and essentially abandoned all those principles which had regulated his conduct during a long and honourable service. On his first arrival out he immediately set himself to ameliorate the condition of the people whom he was called upon to govern, and whose affections and attachment he very soon conciliated. He found the colony in a state of revolt, and both the civil and military departments in declared insubordination; the male and female convicts living together in a state of concubinage, and all the sacred ordinances of religion neglected. He applied himself to reform these abuses, and to enforce the observance of the sabbath day. It was not therefore to be expected, that under such circumstances, a people so disposed and composed should view the exertions of the governor with a friendly eye, or submit quietly to a new state of things. He felt that every person in that House, whether actuated by a love of justice, or by sentiments of regard for general Macquarrie, must feel anxious that the most minute investigation should immediately take place into the subject of the petitions. He would, however, claim this much for governor Macquarrie—that the House should not make a premature judgment upon his conduct, on an 1129ex parteMr. Money
1133[1132l1131 entirely concurred with the hon. and learned gentleman, in the general principles laid down by him in his speech. At the same time, he could not deny to the hon. gentleman who had spoken last, the force of many of the arguments he had advanced, as to the oppressions stated to have been exercised by the governor against the settlers and the convicts. It was very possible that he might ultimately prove to have held a middle course between them; but he could not infer the same presumption of impartiality on the governor's part, on account of his having been said to have oppressed both parties. He had the pleasure of a short acquaintance with gover-
1133[1132l1131Mr. Wilberforce
 said, he should consider himself inexcusable, if, after what had taken place, he prolonged the conversation on the subject. The circumstances of the case were such as to call for an immediate and efficient inquiry. The friends of governor Macquarrie, as became their regard for his reputation and their zeal for his honour were loud and unanimous in their call for inquiry. To say a single word more in aid of the argument for inquiry, would be merely a waste of the time of the House. He rose, therefore, for the sole object of avoiding being misunderstood, to repeat his testimony in favour of governor Macquarrie. Having long and intimately known that gentleman, he was bound to state (what he had indeed before stated), that he always considered him a man of high honour and humanity. From all the observations which he had been able to make of governor Macquarries's conduct during the period of his acquaintance with him, he did not think it likely that he would ever be induced to deviate from those principles and from that character, which be maintained at the period to which he alluded.Sir James Mackintosh
1123 said, that of all the speeches he had ever heard, with re-
1123Sir James Mackintosh
[11401139 said, the subject to which he was about to call the attention of the House was one of very great importance. The object of his rac-
[11401139Sir John Newport
llllll[1148ds said, that no instance could be shown where the decree so winch talked of had been produced. In the city of London two persons had been employed for a month in making the most diligent search, and though they had discovered a decree of bishop Bonner, which was made for some temporary purpose, they had found no trace of the decree in question. No evidence of its existence had been produced before the committee of the House, but such as was supplied from a modern copy of the statutes. In fact, the common sense of the thing had warranted the conclusion at which the committee had arrived. The clergy made it an allegation in their petition, that they were entitled to 2llllll[1148dsMr. Alderman Wood
1149 denied that the minister of Allhallows had the ecclesisatical preferment attributed to him by the worthy alderman. There were other clergymen besides those who had applied to the House by the petition in question, who had a plurality of livings; and he could see no reason for making that circumstance a part of the present consideration. With respect to the decree in question, its existence had, not been mooted, because it was never doubted. For two centuries it had been acquiesced in, which was quite sufficient to rebut the circumstance of the decree not having been found enrolled. The question was, whether or not the
1149Mr. Wynn
1151 said, that the committee above stairs was appointed in order to ascertain whether or not the standing orders had been complied with by the petitioners, and nothing more. To that the committee ought to have confined their report. What monstrous consequences might ensure if a committee above stairs, so appointed, were allowed to come to a decision which should preclude the House from forming any opinion on a subject submitted to them! Let the House consider how such a committee was constituted. It did not consist of a definite number of members. It was not a select committee appointed
1151Mr. Peel
, as the committee had exceeded their authority by entering on an inquiry to which they were not competent, thought that the best mode of remedy would be to send the report back to be re-considered, and to be rendered more conformable to the orders of the House.Mr. Plunkett
 thought that the best way of getting rid of the report was simply to disagree with it, and to give leave at once to bring in the bill.Mr. Wynn
lllllllll[11461145 said, that the committee had come to an almost unanimous conclusion, that the allegations in the petition of the London clergy had not been at all supported by the evidence which they had produced. In order to have a proper view of the question, it would be requisite to consider what had been the condition of the London clergy previous to the great fire of 1666. Now it was matter of record, that in the reign of Henry 8th, continual quarrels were carried on between the citizens and clergy of London, regarding their tithes, and other fees and emoluments. In order to put an end to the disorders which thus
lllllllll[11461145Mr. D. W. Harvey
 hoped the House would allow the merits of the case to be discussed. The clergymen in question had a fair claim on the attention of the legislature, whose duty it was to maintain the character of the church.Mr. Gipps
 objected to the mode in which Mr. Harvey had argued the question. Such a speech might have been very proper after the bill was brought in, but was quite uncalled for in the present stage of the proceeding. He insisted that the subject ought to be fully and fairly discussed, after an opportunity of proving their case had been afforded to the petitioners, and that the committee had arrived at an unwarranted and unprecedented conclusion.Mr. Wrottesley
ds[1144lllldddssdsds rose, to bring forward his motion regarding the London clergy. He said, he should not move that the report of the committee which had decided on this important question should be then read, but should content himself with stating its substance, which was, that the petitioners had not proved the allegations which were made in their petition. He would, however, mention, that the petition which was thus unceremoniously condemned as unsupported by facts, was signed by the incumbents of 50 different parishes in the city of London, and prayed for such further increase of stipend as the House in its liberality might think proper to grant. In the reign of Henry 8th, the clergy of the metropolis were entitled to 2ds[1144lllldddssdsdsSir James Graham
1147 put it to the chair, whether it was not only highly indecorous, but
1147Mr. Dent
ds[1150**ds said, that if the House had entered into a premature inquiry into the condition of the clergymen in question, it was indebted for the excursion to the hon. baronet. With respect to the situation of those clergymen, there were several things to be taken into consideration. A great difference existed both in the size of the parishes and in the stipends attached to them. The beneficial things annexed ought also to be taken into the account. As to the parish of St. Anne's, Blackfriars, it seemed to him very extraordinary that the minister of that parish should be found among the petitioners. That minister had but recently been presented with the living, by the parish; but no sooner was he seated in it, then he turned round and asked parliament to lay a tax upon his parishioners. As to St. Peter's, Cornhill, that living was in the disposal of the corporation of London; and he recollected having been warmly solicited, not long ago, for his interest; and now the minister of that parish, enjoying another living, came to the House and asked it to tax his parishioners [Question! Question!]. He was sorry to obtrude on the time of the House. He would be the last man, on his own account, to force himself on their notice; he would rather forego addressing them altogether. But he trusted he should never want sufficient confidence to stand up for his rights, not as an individual, but as one of the representatives of the British metropolis. Having been a member of the committee to whom the petition was referred, he knew that the question was neither more nor less than this:—The petitioners asserted, that before the fire in London in 1666, the incumbents of the parishes in question were entitled, under the act of the 37th Henry 8th, to a payment in lieu of tithes of 2ds[1150**dsMr. Alderman Waithman
[1152 considered a committee above stairs as of the nature of a grand jury, constituted for the purpose of enabling parties petitioning the House to bring forward their own proofs of their own allegations. He could not but say that there appeared to him to be some suspicion in the circumstance of the strong opposition, contrary to all usage, made to the present stage of the proceeding. It would be a most dangerous precedent to allow a committee above stairs to stifle a petition referred to them, without allowing the House any opportunity of examining its merits; and this the more especially, as the committees above stairs were certainly not one of the best parts of the system of the House of Commons. Nothing could be more contrary to justice and to the established usage of parliament, than for a committee constituted as the committee in question had been, to enter into the merits of a petition referred to them, merely to ascertain whether or not the standing orders respecting it had been complied with, and to report that the allegations of the petitioners had not been proved. He was astonished to hear the transactions and circumstances of private life gone into by more than one hon. member; for he was persuaded that was a kind of discussion in which the House would not indulge. All unnecessary inquisition into private affairs ought to be avoided. One of the greatest grievances of the property tax was its scrutinising and inquisitorial character. The House had been told, that the claims of the petitioners ought not to be granted because they were otherwise provided for. He was always desirous to see the clergy
[1152Mr. Wilberforce
 submitted to the House, that to give leave to bring in a bill would be in itself to disagree with the report. Simply to disagree with the report, without a resolution that the allegations of the petition were proved, would be to raise a doubt whether or not the committee were empowered to give an opinion on the merits of the petition.The Speaker
1153 observed, that when he had stated to the House that it was not the practice to make such a motion as that proposed by the hon. baronet, on the report of the committee, he had accompanied that statement by another, namely, that he believed there was no instance of such a report having been presented. Consequently there could be no instance of any subsequent proceeding on such a report. In the formation of different committees, the House used different and set terms. When an opinion was required from a committee, that was expressly declared in the vote by which it was constituted. That the claims of a petitioner were good or not good—that the allega-
1153The Speaker
 did not apprehend that the course pursued by the hon. baronet was irregular. He suggested that the subject, if it was thought expedient, might be referred back to the committee.The Speaker
l could assure the House, with respect to one of the parishes in question, that of St. Anne and St. Andrew's, Blackfriars, containing a population of above 6,000 souls, that the minister of that parish received only between 2 and 300lSir T. Baring
 spoke shortly in favour of the motion.Sir. W. de Crespigny
l said, that the living of St. Peter, Cornhill, was worth only 300lSir W. Curtis
 Wright feared that the principle of allowing parties to gain a settlement for themselves by residence, would be attended with many mischievous consequences.Mr. Atkyns
1157 was decidedly in favour of the principle of the bill, its objects being, as he understood, to facilitate to the labourer, the means of carrying his industry to the most advantageous market, and to prevent his being torn from the place where he found it his interest or his happiness to reside. So far the measure had his approbation—it would render the inquiry before the magistrate simple and easy of determination, and must necessarily put an end to a great deal of the existing system of litigation. At the same time, he was not prepared to say, that it would not open other sources of litigation, and give rise to fresh difficulties in practice. He knew no satisfactory reason why the poor should not be permitted, without the forfeiture of any legal benefit, to repair from one place to another, according to the demand for their labour. This, it might be urged, would be incompatible with the system of affording parochial relief; but he still looked forward with hope to some radical improvement of that system. It was a system most injurious to the poor themselves, and rendered the wages which they received, even with the addition of the poor-rates, a much more inadequate reward than they would otherwise obtain. Many suggestions had been thrown out, and amongst others, one proposed, that the rate should be limited to its present amount, and that no farther assessment should be made. The effect of such an enactment would be, to prevent all that competition between different parishes, which had long been productive of so many evils. But to the poor themselves it would be an inestimable advantage to find a free market open to their labour, the price of which was now depressed, and in fact placed in the hands of the magistrate. Its value must always depend
1157Mr. Western
 stated several inconveniences that arose in parishes in which friendly societies were established; and especially directed the notice of the hon. gentleman to this evil, namely, that in some parishes where there were these societies, parochial aid was frequently refused to a sick man if he belonged to them.Sir Gerard Noel
1159 thought, that the two great evils for which it was desirable to provide a remedy, were, the tendency towards a redundant population, and the inadequacy of the wages to the support of the labouring crasses; and he apprehended, that the measure now proposed would not afford any security against the continuance of these evils. On the contrary, he thought that, if a provision were made for all the children of the poor, it would only increase the evil; for if parents felt assured that an asylum would be provided for their children, in which they would be treated with humanity and ten-
1159Mr. Ricardo
[1156 said, that the general outline of the measure corresponded with his own ideas of what might be beneficially done upon this branch of the subject To him it appeared equally cruel
[1156Mr. Curwen
 was convinced that the principle of prohibiting any allowance to employed labourers in parishes where the children of the poor were maintained and educated, would be impracticable in the district with which he was most acquainted; and in which the wages of labour were very scanty and insufficient. He was a member of a committee above stairs, in which a certain class of workmen had proved, that although fully employed, it was impossible for the best hands, even when labouring for seventeen hours in the day, to earn more then six or seven shillings a week. Now, if there was an act of parliament prohibiting magistrates from granting such individuals relief from the poor rates, what would become of them?Mr. Mansfield
 highly approved of the proposed measure. It was the practice in many parishes to allow two shillings a-week for every child above two. The consequence was, that where such an allowance was made, the parents seldom exerted themselves to procure work. In the parish in which he resided, there was no such allowance, and the consequence was, that there was no distress.Mr. N. Calvert
1161[1160, in rising to move for leave to bring in a bill for the further encouragement and protection of Friendly Societies, combated the arguments of those who had expressed opinions hostile to the principle on which those societies were formed. Of late years it had been said by high authority, by Mr. Malthus, Mr. Davison, and lastly by one of whom he was bound to speak with peculiar respect, Mr. Copleston, that to encourage poor people to lay by their earnings under an ensurance of this nature, was a bad thing; and that those whose property was very small should not enter into a mutual guarantee. He thought, that the smaller the property, the greater was the necessity of insuring; he would illustrate his opinion by what was familiar to him officially. The East India Company did not ensure, because the amount of the ensurance upon their great concerns, would be equal to the whole loss that could in any probability fall upon them; but he who had ventured his on a single brig, would be very unwise if he did not ensure it lest, as Mr. Davison had said, he might, if his voyage proved favourable, find that he had subscribed to the repair of another's fortune! In like manner, a rich landlord had no need to ensure against the expenses of sickness; but a labourer, although if he enjoyed uninterrupted health, might have made a bad speculation in subscribing his savings to a Friendly Society, would, on the other hand, if he should be disabled by sickness, lose, without this precaution, his whole means of subsistence at once. All though he was confident that Friendly Societies Were of the greatest use to the community, it was, nevertheless, well known that they were open to many abuses. In the first place, some of those societies had been Founded on erroneous calculation the result either of the want of accurate tables, or of the sanguineness or
1161[1160Mr. Thomas Courtenay
 thought, that according to the only principle upon which the poor laws could be defended, relief ought to be withholden from any man to whom, from whatever cause, it was otherwise than absolutely necessary for his maintenance.Mr. Courtenay
[1158 next moved for leave to bring in a bill to prevent the Misapplication of the Poor Rates.—A similar bill had, he said, been under the consideration of the last parliament, but there had not been sufficient time for correcting and modifying its objectionable clauses. This he hoped would be now found to have been done, and that it was not ill calculated to produce its end, which was to prevent a very considerable misapplication of the poor rates. The House must be well aware, that one of the greatest evils arising out of the present system, was the payment of the wages of labour out of those rates. A man with, perhaps, a family of six children, represented to the parish officers that he was not able to maintain more than two. By the acts of Elizabeth and of George 1st, there was a case in which the children above the number of two, ought to be set to work in the parish workhouse; but, under all the circumstances, it was not surprising that this practice should not be resorted to. The bill was intended to provide for placing these children to work and sustaining them, instead of giving to their parents a relief which was often squandered and not applied to the benefit of the children. This conduct of parents was not, indeed, of new occurrence; it had been remarked in the reign of William 3rd by Mr. Locke, who had recommended the regulation adopted in the present measure. The experiment had been made in some parishes, and the applications for relief had become less numerous. One advantage would certainly be gained in the due application of the funds, and a third and more material one would be realized in those parishes where charitable institutions existed, by placing the children in schools where industry might be com-
[1158Mr. Sturges Bourne
1155sub silentio,, in moving for leave to bring in a bill to regulate the Settlement of the Poor, observed, that it might be necessary, in order to render the subject perfectly intelligible, that he should treat it somewhat historically; the first statute establishing a compulsory assessment for the poor was the 14th Eliz., which was farther regulated by the 43rd, Eliz., and the law remained unaltered until the 13th and 14th Car. 2nd, which was in truth the foundation of the superstructure which had spread so wide, and excited so much dissatisfaction. It was required, among other things, by this last statute, that before a settlement could be gained by a pauper, by a residence of forty days, he must give notice in the church of his coming to reside. This enactment imposed heavy fetters upon the free circulation of labour, and by an act of William 3rd certificates from parish officers were substituted. As these certificates were granted or refused, at the option of the overseers, the evil was only partially removed, and, down to a very late date, and through what were called the best times, it had continued in the power of parish-officers to remove any labourer or family, without cause assigned, from one end of the kingdom to the other. This immense power was, however, partly restrained by Mr. Rose's bill for the encouragement of friendly societies, in 1793, and farther limited by Mr. East's act of 1795, which, although making a most important change, and doing more for the benefit of the lower classes than had been accomplished since the Revolution, had passed 1155sub silentio,Mr. Sturges Bourne
[1168 said, that the more this subject was agitated and discussed, the more evident would appear the general opinion of the people of Scotland in favour
[1168Mr. Maitland
1169 said, that Stinton had not been punished in consequence of his absence from parade; he had behaved ill in many other respects; had endeavoured to escape from the Serjeant who had arrested him; and, in consequence, had been brought to a court-martial. What
1169Colonel Townshend
 considered this a violation of a most important privilege. The House was bound to protect its witnesses, and in doing so it only exerted the same power which every court of justice possessed, and when necessary exerted.Sir C. Monck
1171 thought it highly objectionable to adjourn such a question to so distant a period. Important as the business was which was at that time to come under discussion, it could not be more important than that which they were then discussing. Rather than such an adjournment should take place, he should prefer that the House should meet and specially consider the matter to-morrow. For his own part, he thought that the House ought not to separate without corning to a decision on the question forthwith. In the last parliament, when a witness had
1171Mr. Wynn
 stated the circumstances under which he had become acquainted with the nature of the present cage, upon the man's first confinement. He had conferred with one or two members of the committee on the subject; but finding that the man had broken away from the serjeant, and had in other respects misconducted himself, he directed that he should be proceeded with in the usual way.Colonel Townshend
 said, that this was the question which was not distinctly made out by the evidence of the Serjeants. It was also matter of doubt, whether the court-martial had been suffered to go on with a knowledge of the facts, or whether tile facts only transpired at its conclusion. Mr. Wynn thought it appeared by the evidence that the man had been ordered into confinement by his officer, after the latter had been informed of the cause of his absence. This was in itself a breach of privilege, and the court-martial could scarcely have been ignorant of the circumstances. It was desirable, therefore, that the hon. officer should inform the House, what had been the immediate cause of bringing the man to a court-martial.Mr. Tierney
 said, that the real question was, whether the soldier had or had not been arrested whilst he was in attendance upon a summons from a committee of the House. Now it appeared that he had been so arrested, and arrested also in the precincts of the House. The Serjeant, therefore, who had arrested him, had certainly transgressed against their privileges.Mr. Tierney
 rose, pursuant to his notice of moving the House to instruct the committee on gaols to take into consideration the state of New South Wales. He was happy to inform the House, that there was no occasion for him to proceed with his motion, as the committee had come to a resolution of turning their attention to the subject without any delay.Mr. Bennet
 said, it was probable the soldier solicited the court martial, because he would have been flogged without it.Mr. Bennet
 observed, that as the soldier had been illegally arrested in the first instance, he did not see why he should be punished for an attempted escape from an arrest which, in point of law, was no arrest at all. He also maintained, that, as the arrest was illegal, any punishment inflicted on the soldier, for his endeavour to escape from that arrest, would be highly illegal. For his own part he should wish to see the minutes of the court-martial.Mr. Bennet
bona fide, pursuant to notice, moved for leave to bring in a bill to impose an oath on persons voting in right of small freeholds and to prevent fraudulent conveyances of such freeholds; and also to amend the25th Geo.3rd, c. 84, relative to the oath of qualification. His object in bringing in this bill was not to alter in any respect the law of the land; he merely wished, that whoever claimed a right to vote, should bona fideMr. William Williams
 was then examined. He stated, that be was serjeant-major to the 1st regiment of guards, and that hearing Stinton had been missing at the defaulter's drill, he had ordered serjeant Hardy to secure him He afterwards learnt about two o'clock that it had been done, and as he found that Stinton's absence had been occasioned by his attendance on the House of Commons, he had directed serjeant Hardy only to confine him to the barracks. Stinton having subsequently made his escape and been retaken was confined till Monday, and then arraigned for breach of duty. He told the adjutant, who reasoned with him on the subject, that the charge was false, and that he would not answer the questions of any one, unless he were brought before a court martial. He behaved with the same impropriety to the commanding officer. He was then brought before a court-martial, and found guilty of two of the charges laid against him, but, in consequence of his pleading that he had been summoned to attend the House of Commons, the court had pardoned him and no punishment had been inflicted upon him. On the Friday previous to his absence, he had stated to the witness that he had received a summons to attend the House of Commons, upon which the witness told him that he must inform him whether his attendance would interfere with his military duty, which he never did. The witness did not know that Stinton had been called before a committee of the House of Commons, except from the report given him by serjeant Hardy.—He then withdrew.Thomas Sutton
[1170 asserted, that a more serious breach of privilege could not be committed, especially as it originated from a military officer. If, during the course of a late examination, a party had been committed to the custody of the serjeant at arms, for using threatening language to a witness who had been examined at the bar of that House—a punishment which he, for one, did not think disproportionate to the offence which had rendered it necessary—surely they ought to exercise equal severity towards a military man who had been guilty of so gross an outrage as that upon which they were then debating. He had never before heard such unsatisfactory and extraordinary arguments as those which the judge advocate had just advanced; he had heard them with surprise not unmingled with indignation. The learned gentleman had intimated, that an ignorance of the privileges of the House was to be considered
[1170Sir James Mackintosh
 presented a petition from the royal burgh of Dumfries, complaining of the present system of electing magistrates in that burgh. The petition, he took upon himself to say, was signed by its most respectable inhabitants; and, he felt himself bound in justice to add, that the principles on which they prayed for redress, were strictly constitutional, and unmixed with any of those wild and visionary theories which had so much abused the cause of reform. The population of the royal, burghs was 480,000. Of these 410,000 had petitioned for a reform in the present system. Of the remaining 70,000, it was to be observed, that though they had not petitioned in favour of such a measure, yet they had not sent up a single petition, or signed a solitary resolution against it, however dependent any part of them might be supposed to be on the will of those who wished to preserve the present system. If ever, therefore, there was a question on which the public voice of those interested in the issue was most unequivocally declared, it was that to which the petition adverted.Sir James Mackintosh
 admitted that the House should take notice of the proceeding, but believed that the offence for which the soldier was tried was wholly of a military nature.Mr. Beckett
 said, that the learned gentleman was wholly mistaken in supposing that he had extenuated the conduct of the Serjeant, on the ground of his ignorance of the privileges of that House. As to the court martial, he understood it was solicited by the soldier.Mr. Beckett
1173 conceived such a proceeding to be unusual, except in the case of Some distinct ground being laid for it. They were all agreed, he had no doubt,
1173Mr. Beckett
 thought that such an outrage ought to be marked by the censure of the House on the individual who had been guilty of it.Sir M. W. Ridley
 solicited the attention of the House, whilst he detailed to it a most gross violation of its privileges, which had lately occurred. A soldier of the first regiment of guards, named Stinton, had been summoned to attend and give evidence before the committee on the Worcester election. He had attended, and had been examined on Saturday last. As he was retiring from the room in which the committee sat, and was crossing the lobby of the House, he was arrested by a sergeant of the guards, for a military offence which he had committed; that offence was his absence from parade, in consequence of his attendance at the House of Commons. The committee, on hearing of the circumstance, had not taken any immediate notice of it; because they thought that when the soldier's conduct was explained to his officers, nothing would be done to punish him. Since that time, the man had been tried by a court martial, though sentence had not, he believed, been passed upon him. He thought that such a transaction was well worthy of their consideration: for his own part, he must denounce it as a most flagrant breach of privilege to arrest in the precincts of the House, any witness who was in attendance pursuant to its orders. They ought in all cases to punish with severity any breach of their privileges; but still more so, when the breach was committed by military authority.Lord Althorp
 was happy to find that no breach of privilege had been committed. He considered it, however, desirable that the subject should be prosecuted to an end; and in order that it might be fully recorded in their Journals, he would move that the minutes of the court-martial should be produced;Lord Althorp
 then moved, That the Serjeant of the first regiment of Foot Guards, who arrested Thomas Stinton on Saturday last, be ordered to attend the House on Tuesday next.Lord Althorp
[1172 expressed his opinion, that there was now evidence before the House, to show that Stinton had been brought to a court-martial, amongst Other things, upon a charge of being absent from drill, that absence having been caused by his attendance on a committee of the House. The statement of these circumstances clearly indicated a case of a breach of privilege, and rendered it
[1172Lord Althorp
 observed, that one reason why the man had been brought to a court-martial was, that he had refused to answer any question put to him by his superior officers, and had actually invited them to bring him before one.Lord Palmerston
1193 said, he was extremely sorry that the resolutions of his gallant friend were not at once adopted. Since, however, they were not, he felt it to be his duty not to shrink from openly stating his view of the case. He would not detain the House long: if he could think that he possessed any power of producing conviction in the minds of others, this was the last question on which he would have exercised it. The defence urged by the hon. member who had just sat down was derived from motives, from the conduct of the accused after the transaction in question, and from the character of the witnesses. Would to God that they had been left to form their conclusions by such considerations. But the hon. member had met the charge by an explicit and decided disclaimer: in consequence, a long and minute examination of witnesses became necessary. This course had now-placed the question on a different ground. The consideration that must now weigh with the House was, respect to its own character, which would render them care-
1193The Hon. F. Douglas
[12041203[12021201l.[1200l.l.1199[11981197**l.[1196 gave credit to the motives which had urged the gallant officer to bring the matter before the House, and felt pleasure in remarking the candid manner in which the whole of the business had been conducted. He fully agreed, that the subject was one which required due deliberation. The hon. and gallant member had argued, that all the charges had been fully proved; and in support of that opinion, he had adduced the tone and manner in which Mr. W. Quin had denied them on the first introduction of the matter to the House. That denial, he maintained, was perfectly justifiable. It should be recollected, that it was made on the petition, which contained charges that had not since been proved. One part of the charge contained in the petition was—"That the said Wyndham Quin. Derceivins at the last general elec-
[12041203[12021201l.[1200l.l.1199[11981197**l.[1196Mr. Peel
 wished merely to say a few words respecting the character of Mr. Goold, He had known that gentle-man for above twenty years—he had known him in public and in private—he had been very much in company with him—and he had been also in company with other gentleman of the best character and best family in the country; and he would say this—if Mr. Goold was not an honest man, they were not honest. He would not inquire now into the exact measure of the accuracy of his evidence in this case. Mr. Goold might have been mistaken in one or two points; but there was not in this account the smallest ground for questioning his integrity. He knew him to be as incapable of falsehood as the best and honestest man in that House. He would be acting a dishonest part towards Mr. Goold if he did not state this, because he had lived on the closest intimacy with him. An hon. member had made an allegation, that had Mr. Carew Smyth given the same evidence as Mr. Goold, he would have been sent to Newgate. He would only say, if such a man as Mr. Goold, in consequence of a mistake which, be dared to say, signified very little—if such a man should be sent to Newgate, the dishonour would not attach to the man, but to the House. He agreed with all the arguments urged, and all the principles laid down by his right hon. friend (Mr. Plunkett), and he bad too great respect for the House, after the eloquence and ability of the speech of his right hon. friend, to take up more of their time at that late hour.Mr. Gratten
 considered the conduct of Mr. Quin extremely reprehensible, in the manner in which he had deprived the young gentleman of his office. He thought he had not held that line of conduct towards him which he ought to have held, when he told that young gentleman, Tom, or whatever else he called him, "I would sooner give you an office than take one from you." He bad heard a report which he thought very much to the credit of the member for Limerick, that he intended restoring that gentleman unconditionally to office [a laugh]. If he restored him to the office, it would give him a very exalted opinion of him:—and with a view to something of that kind, perhaps it would be better to adjourn the debate, as, in the present hurried way, the resolutions to which they might come were not such as ought to go down to posterity.Mr. Martin
[1214l.l.sl.1213l.incredulus odi,[1212§1211 said, that important as the original question was to the individuals concerned, and to the public at large, it acquired additional importance from circumstances connected with the persons who had been brought forward as witnesses. He felt much satisfaction at the liberal manner in which his hon. and learned friend had commented upon the evidence of Mr. Goold, acquitting his character, while he condemned his recollection. How his memory had upon some topics become an absolute blank, it was hard to account; but that it was done without any wish to pervert the truth he was as confident as he was of his own existence. If it was possible for him to discharge that opinion from his mind, and to suppose that his motive was dishonourable, he should leave the House impressed with the melancholy conviction, that hereafter he could trust no man. He had known the witness upwards of forty years, and could pronounce, on the authority of that experience, that there was not a more honourable character in existence. But the witness was also known to persons whose opinion was more influential than his own. He was known to a right hon. friend of his, who used to sit on the bench below him, and whose loss they all deplored, the late Mr. Ponsonby. He did not mean by this tribute to the character of Mr. Goold, to throw the least imputation upon that of Mr. Smyth, whose integrity was never suspected: but while he thanked his hon. friend, for the candour he had shown to Mr. Goold, he was not prepared to go with him the length of omitting the whole of Mr. Goold's evidence. He would allow that where his evidence came in competition with that of Mr. Smyth, the latter was entitled to preference; but there were points in which Mr. Goold was uncontradicted by Mr. Smyth. He thought that their evidence, as compared with each other, presented four points of difference:—1st, It was asserted by Mr. Smyth, that the refusal to sign the minute was by Mr. Goold, and not by Mr. Quin—2nd, That on the 22nd of September, the denial was of a signature, and not of the truth which it contained—3rd, That Mr. Goold declared he would be ready at all times to attest the fact: and the 4th and most material, involved this question, whether Mr. Quin did on the 22nd Sept., when Mr. Goold was present, acknowledge that he was the person who stated that the grant
[1214l.l.sl.1213l.incredulus odi,[1212§1211Mr. Plunkett
[12161215 said, that after a most attentive perusal of the evidence, he had come to a different conclusion to the hon. and learned member who had just sat
[12161215Mr. Wynn
 suggested, that if censure was to be passed, the present amendment did not go far enough. If the offence had been committed, it was a serious one, and deserved censure, although the object had not been carried into effect.Mr. Plunkett
 signified his readiness to listen to any suggestion from the right hon. gentleman, whose candour he most cheerfully admitted, but thought the words "improper" and "blameable" conveyed reprehension.Mr. Wilbraham
 next moved, "That this House cannot but consider the expression, or admission of any such expectation as improper and blameable; and had an intention of acting thereon been persisted in, instead of being (as it appears to have been) speedily and unequivocally disavowed, this House would have deemed it necessary to visit such a proceeding with its severest censure."— An amendment was proposed to be made to the question, by leaving out the words "improper and blameable," in order to insert the words "highly censurable," instead thereof—The question, That the words proposed to be left out, stand part of the question, being put, was agreed to.—Sir R. Wilson then proposed an amendment to be made to the question, by leaving out all the words from the words "blameable, and" in order to add the words, "That it appears to this House, that the said Wyndham Wyndham Quin, in endeavouring to procure for himself the political support of Thomas William Grady, did act in a manner inconsistent with the duties of his office as Custos Rotulorum, in violation of the freedom of election, and in breach of the privileges of this House;"—The question being put, was agreed to. After which, the main question was also put and agreed to.Mr. B. Wilbraham
 denied that Mr. Goold had been guilty of prevarication. He was surprised that any person could thus plant a dagger in the bosom of a respectable individual, by gratuitously proposing a measure which would only have the effect of for ever destroying his peace of mind. He trusted that the hon. gentleman when he made such a motion, was not aware of the extent of the evil which he was doing— an irreparable evil, and to a person bearing such a character as that which had been given him by the father of his country. He had felt absolutely electrified with astonishment, when this motion was brought forward, and he believed the hon. gentleman was the only member in the House who would have adopted such a course.Mr. Plunkett
, in explanation, said, that if in the heat of argument upon a subject on which he was most ardent, he had said any thing to give offence, it was more than he had intended. In the observations he had made, nothing was farther from his intention than the wish to give offence to the hon. member.Mr. Plunkett
l.[1192l.1191[1190 rose, he said, not with the view of long occupying the attention of the House, or of entering into any particular analysis of the evidence; but having no connexion with the hon. member who was the subject of the charges preferred by the gallant officer, and not being much in the habit of addressing the House, he thought it proper to say a word or two as to the motives which urged him to stand forward upon
l.[1192l.1191[1190Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
[1230 expressed the sincere regret and pain which he felt in being obliged, after all he had heard from so many high authorities on both sides of the House, and perhaps from the highest authority in the House, in favour of the character of Mr. Goold, to be obliged, in the discharge of his duty, to vote for a motion which must necessarily cast an imputation upon a character hitherto respectable. But after having read and considered the evidence which Mr. Goold had given, he did not think that such evi-
[1230Lord Nugent
l.1225 thought the amendment proposed by the hon. gentleman did not state the fact, and was contrary to the evidence; for Mr. Quin himself admitted that there was a virtual stipulation.l.1225Mr. Tierney
[12241223[12221221[12201219 said, that upon a question like the present, where not only the character of an hon. member was involved, but also the characters of two other most highly respectable gentlemen, he did not think he should be justified in giving a silent vote. He hoped, however, he should be excused for saying,—without intending the slightest disrespect to the House, or thinking lightly of its privileges,—that he considered the charge, as it originally stood, and all the circumstance of extenuation or aggravation of the offence of the hon. member, to sink into comparative insignificance, compared with those matters which were incidental to the inquiry; and he particularly alluded to the character of these honourable gentlemen. If that offence had at once been fairly and candidly avowed; if, on hearing the charge, the hon. member for Limerick had felt that it was consistent with his own recollection, or that he could reconcile it with his own honour to have avowed that he had entered into this negociation which was never concluded—that he had entered into something like a traffic for political support in return for patronage; but that he threw himself on the consideration of the House as to the offence against their privileges, he was quite sure if the hon. member had taken this course, he would have stood that day much higher in the opinion of the House. But the charge against him was comparatively small; it was the manner in which he had defended himself; it was his unwarrantable denial of any share whatever in the transaction imputed to him, both in his speech when the charge was first brought forward, and in his speech of that night. It was painful to him that he was obliged to say that the hon. member had stated that which was not true. He had charged on those who had brought forward this accusation—including that most respectable witness, by whose evidence it was stated in opening the charge to the House that it would be principally supported— he had charged Mr. Carew Smyth with neither more nor less than a foul conspiracy to ruin his character by false accusations. The House had to see how far he was borne out in this charge. And this led to the examination of the pretensions of the two witnesses. It would be a circumstance still more painful if he were bound to express the same opinion with respect to the witness brought forward by the hon. member. He had been
[12241223[12221221[12201219Mr. Brougham
 observed, that as Mr. Goold was not a principal in this transaction, the House could not punish him without an inquiry into his conduct. He hoped his hon. friend would withdraw his motion.Mr. Brougham
1229 rose to order. The hon.
1229Mr. Brougham
 dwelt on the impropriety of blending the merits of the question with the conduct of the witnesses, and of stamping a censure on one witness, on account of his evidence being at variance with that of another.Mr. Brougham
 did not approve of the manner in which the evidence of Mr. Goold was given, but thought that, if a question were started upon it, it could not be one for prevarication, but for stating that which he knew not to be true. After the evidence had been given, it should not be so much the question, whether the witness had prevaricated, as whether he had stated that which he believed to be true or not. Without, therefore, giving his opinion upon the merits of the question before the House, which he thought ought to be postponed to another opportunity, he should give his vote against the motion.Mr. Abercromby
 denied that there had been any prevarication in Mr. Goold's evidence: he had distinctly denied the facts stated by Mr. C. Smyth, but had afterwards openly and manfully declared his conviction, that Mr. Smyth was correct. Surely the hon. gentleman did not know the meaning of the word prevaricate; for if Mr. Goold was guilty at all, he was guilty of giving false evidence, and not of giving prevarication. He agreed with the learned gentleman in thinking, or at least in hoping that there was not another member of that House who would have proposed such a motion.Mr. Stuart Wortley
 had no doubt that the only motive of Mr. Lambton was a sense of duty.Mr. S. Wortley
 bore testimony to the excellent character of Mr. Goold, a gentleman whom he had known for a great many years. He trusted the House would come to an immediate decision on this question, for he thought that no acquittal, however unanimous, would compensate Mr. Goold, for having this dreadful scourge hung over his head for a single day longer.Mr. Croker
 said, that, notwithstanding the tender regard which was entertained for Mr. Goold's character, the right hon. gentleman had suffered the evidence of Mr. C. Smyth to be impugned without any ceremony [Cries of No, no!]. The gentlemen said no, but he said yes. He believed on his conscience that Mr. Goold's evidence was prevaricative, and he had brought forward this motion from a sense of duty, and a desire to protect the privileges of the House.Mr. Lambton
 then moved, "That Thomas Goold, esq. having prevaricated in the evidence given by him at the bar of this House, be for his. said offence committed to the custody of the Serjeant at Arms attending this House."Mr. Lambton
 said, he had heard with great concern certain unfounded insinuations against the testimony given by Mr. Carew Smyth: he had heard them with the more pain, because he had long had the honour of being intimately acquainted with that gentleman; for twenty years the strictest intimacy had subsisted between them, and Mr. Smyth had often been an inmate in his house and family, and he had every reason to be satisfied that his honour was unstained, and his character unimpeachable. Within an hour after his arrival in London, he had seen him, and the narrative he then gave forced reluctant conviction that the charge was but too well founded. Referring, however, to the testimony of Mr. Goold, truth demanded that he should state, that at least some parts of it were liable to strong suspicion. It wag remarkable to see how unfortunately defective his memory had been upon all the material points against Mr. Quin, while it was competent to the relation of the minutest incidents of conversation when they operated in his favour. Admitting for a moment that the evidence of Mr. C Smyth was not sufficient to substantiate the accusation, all and more than was necessary was furnished by Mr. Goold himself; not so much in his oral testimony as in his letters; documents which he could neither deny nor explain away. His note to Mr. C. Smyth seemed of itself decisive. The conduct of Mr. C. Smyth throughout had been unexceptionable; and it might in some respects be considered fortunate that at this moment he had not given his evidence in the same manner as Mr. Goold: if, he had done so, he would no doubt have been in Newgate.Mr. John Smith
1181[1180quid pro quo.1179[11781177 then rose, and stated that it was his wish to deliver a few observations to the House previous to their proceeding to the consideration, of this subject, and he hoped in the few words which he had to say, he should experience the indulgence of the House. When he before addressed the House, in. the statement he then made, he had confined himself to the matter of charge in the petition of which he now held a copy in his hands; and he had then said, that the charges of corruption contained in the petition were not founded in fact, and that he was not guilty of the corrupt charges there made against him. One of the facts charged against him was, that he had broken up the emoluments of the office for clerk of the peace for the county of Limerick into lots, in order to distribute them among those persons who bad political influence in that county—that he had bestowed a part of them on Mr. Grady the petitioner himself; and he thought it was hard that the petitioner of all men, should bring that before the House of Commons as a particular charge against him—should charge him with it here as a crime. That provision out of the emoluments of the office of clerk of the peace which was bestowed on the petitioner, had not originated with himself (Mr. W. Quin)—it had originated with others who took an interest in the affairs of the petitioner. But though this did not originate with himself, he had adopted the measure with pleasure, when, it was suggested to him. But he would boldly and confidently state, that that provision was made without being accompanied with any stipulation, any compact, or any promise of return whatever. That provision was given to the petitioner purely out of regard for him, and not as a compensation for any claim, or for any promise of political; support. When he
1181[1180quid pro quo.1179[11781177Mr. Wyndham Quin
 suggested, that the three first resolutions must be disposed of before the question could be put on the amendment.The Speaker
 said, he thought it ungenerous to infer blame in Mr. Carew Smyth, on the ground of letters which he had voluntarily produced.Mr. W. Parnell
l.1209l.l.[12081207[1206l.l.1205l.l. rose, he said, to perform a painful duty—to explain the grounds of the vote which he meant to give on this important occasion. If he were capable of forgetting for a moment the principles of moderation, the example of the right hon. gentleman, who had so manfully and so eloquently performed his part, would recall him to the right course. In beginning the observations he had to make, he begged that the evidence alone should be referred to, and that every thing extraneous should be discarded from their minds. No letters had come to his hand of the kind alluded to; and even if they had reached his hand, they would not have influenced his judgment. The question before the House—the issue which they were bound to try and make a free deliverance on—was not, whether this or that part of the petition was supported, as seemed to be thought by the, right hon. gentleman, but whether a transaction had been entered upon, by which the privileges of the House were invaded. In short, the issue to be tried was, did Mr. Quin, on the 21st of September last, offer 200l.1209l.l.[12081207[1206l.l.1205l.l.Sir James Mackintosh
[1188l.l.l.1187l.l.[11861185l.[1184ex majore cautelâl.1183[1182 said, that having experienced the kind indulgence of the House during the whole course of these proceedings, the hoped that indulgence would not be withdrawn from him now that he had to perform the most arduous and painful part of his duty. If motives untainted by political feelings, or personal animosity could give him a right to expect attention, he might honestly claim that indulgence. Hitherto he had only been the official conductor of the petitioner's complaint, and a coadjutor in the examination of the witnesses; but he now stood in the situation more distressing to his feelings of the public accuser of a member of the House. But if the House had seen, as he trusted they had, in his conduct in his former capacity, only a desire to get at the truth in his questions as to facts, so he hoped they would now give him credit, that he would not attempt by invectives to rouse their passions, or by subtle misconstructions to mislead their judgments. It was only since he had entered the House, that he had known, that
[1188l.l.l.1187l.l.[11861185l.[1184ex majore cautelâl.1183[1182Sir Robert Wilson
 expressed his conviction that a case had been made out which showed that a place had been offered on condition of political support. The office of clerk of the peace ought to be held during good behaviour, and not during the pleasure of any individual. He would therefore, now give notice of his intention to move for leave to bring in a bill to place that office, in Ireland, on the same footing as it stood upon in England.Sir J. Newport
 believed the hon. gentleman was mistaken, when he represented the arrears of business in the Court of Chancery to have increased. The number of appeals, indeed, had multiplied, as might have been expected to be the case, from the institution of a second inferior court. The arrear of bankrupt petitions had, however, been considerably reduced. The number of cases heard and determined by the lord-chancellor during the last three years exceeded all precedent, and was to be attributed to the practice, which was before unusual, of deciding important questions upon motion merely, instead of a formal suit. The confidence reposed by the public in the lord chancellor's learning and judgment had led to the introduction of this useful practiceThe Solicitor General
[1264 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to regulate the office of lord justice general of Scotland. The duties of the office were usually performed by deputy. The reason why this office had not hitherto been abolished, was, that by different acts of parliament certain acts were appointed to be done, and certain writs to be signed by this officer. A bill had been submitted to the House last session for the abolition of this offices, which went through several stages, but the subject was finally put off. By this bill the duties of the office were transferred to the lord president of the court of session, and a certain salary was given to the lord president for such additional duties. One gentleman had opposed the bill on the ground that the salary was more than ought to be given, and another on the ground that no salary at all ought to be given. He had thought
[1264Mr. Davies Gilbert
, after apologizing for bringing forward a measure connected with so important a subject as the poor laws, moved for leave to bring in a bill to regulate the relief granted to the poor in Scotland; the object of which was to prevent the progress of evils in Scotland, similar to those which had arisen in England.Mr. Kennedy
 said, that thanks were due to the hon. mover for his attention to this subject. The object, he understood, was, to settle who the persons were by whom the funds raised for the relief of the poor in Scotland should be managed.—Leave given.Mr. Hume
1263bonâ fide[1262 said, he would not disguise from the House that his present motion was only a preliminary step to other measures which he meant to bring forward, some in the present, and others in a future session. The object of the present motion was to show the delay in the Court of Chancery and the appellant jurisdiction. His motion was for an account of the total amount of the effects of suitors in the Court of Chancery in 1756, and every subsequent 10th year, and in 1818. What he had in view was to show the great increase of business in the Court of Chancery, from a variety of sources, since the first of these periods. He had had the honour in 1811, to move the appointment of a committee to inquire into the delays in the Court of Chancery, and to search the Journals of the Lords with respect to the delays in the appellant jurisdiction. That inquiry was followed by the appointment of an assistant court. His object was to submit to the House whether that assistance had been effectual. His own opinion was, that it had not been effectual. In the appellant jurisdiction the appeals had diminished from 300 and upwards to 140. But there were at times in the appellant jurisdiction 26 suits waiting decision at one time. If any thing should happen, either the death of the present lord chancellor, or his removal from office in consequence of a change of administration, an enormous expense would be entailed on the number of suitors whose cases remained undetermined. In June 1811, there were in the paper of the lord chancellor 114 causes: there were besides exceptions and demurrers: the appeals were 35, and the hearings 5: the bankruptcy petitions to be heard were 203. At this moment there were 289 causes in the lord chancellor's paper, whereas before there were only 114. For hearing there were 101 causes. The object he had in view was to remove
1263bonâ fide[1262Mr. M. A. Taylor
 justified the proceedings of the court-martial, and contended, that no breach of privilege had been intended or committed in point of fact; the order produced by Stinton was dated on Thursday morning, and the arrest by Serjeant Hardy did not take place until Saturday afternoon.Mr. Beckett
 thought that the court ought to have inquired, whether the presence of Stinton had been required on the morning of Saturday, before they found him guilty, although they had followed up their sentence by no punishment. He did not impute to the court-martial any intention to infringe the privileges of the House; but the subject ought to be investigated, for the sake of the precedent.Mr. Tierney
 said, that if the soldier was wanted by that House, it was merely necessary for him to mention it to the Serjeant, and then to go. With respect to any expressions in the sentence, he could not see how they could be construed to involve any breach of the privileges of the House. That sentence was worded as the sentences of courts-martial generally were, and went expressly to show that it was not meant to incur any such breach of privilege.Lord F. Bentinck
 conceived, that had the sentence of the soldier been for absenting himself without leave, it would have been fully justified. Undoubtedly the man had been guilty of a military crime in so doing, and the sentence was quite regular.Colonel Barry
 thought the man was perfectly justified. If he was wanted by that House, it was enough for him to say, "I am wanted, and will go."Mr. Tierney
[1266 rose to protest against the doctrine which had been advanced by an hon. member on the other side. The hon. member admitted, that if the soldier was refused leave, he might come notwithstanding; he did not now contend that point, but said that he was bound to ask leave. Now he (Mr. B.) meant to dispute that doctrine altogether. On the warrant of that House being issued to any person whatever to attend them, whether it was to a servant under a master, a sol-
[1266Mr. Brougham
 agreed with his learned friend, that any person receiving ass order to that effect was bound to attend the House. He considered that the soldier was also bound, not to ask leave, but to state that he had received such an order, and must attend. He had in such a case, no leave to ask.Mr. Wynn
 expressed his concurrence in what had fallen from his hon. friend, as to there being no necessity for a person so summoned to ask leave.Mr. Brougham
 was perfectly satisfied, that there was no wish to make out the infringement which had occurred a breach of privilege. With respect to what had been said about asking leave, whatever degree of confusion that expression might have produced among hon. members, it originated on the other side of the House. It seemed in the highest degree necessary to protect the individual from the consequences of the step he had taken. As to the observations of a right hon. gentleman, that such protection would open a door to every soldier who chose to do so, to leave his quarters, nothing could be more futile. Soldiers were bound to do their duty.Sir James Mackintosh
 said, that had the motion been of a general nature, he should have wished it to be postponed, but he felt no objection to the particular question before the House. He did not mean, however, to pledge himself to the support of the measure.Lord Binning
[1272 said, he should not have troubled the House on the present occasion, if the worthy alderman had not stated, that the object of his motion was, to open the eyes of the House to the system of the excise laws. The petitioner said that he had never before violated the laws of excise, as they ought to be administered. What might be the petitioner's ideas of the manner in which those laws should be administered he did not know; but he was sure that a man who had been convicted six times of smuggling, and in whose house smuggled goods had been repeatedly found, was a person who ought to be prosecuted as an example to others. This man had presented a petition to the court, and as his (the attorney general's) recommendation had considerable weight, as was natural from his official situation, he had made inquiries into the particulars of the case; but when he found that the man was an habitual smuggler, or at least an illicit trader, he did not think it proper to recommend him to the lenity of the court. There was another fact of some importance: this man was a grocer in that quarter where goods were most frequently smuggled ashore, and had been convicted five times of receiving smuggled tobacco and other articles from Lascars and various descriptions of low character. Was this, then, a man entitled to indulgence? The learned gentleman then detailed the circumstances of the prosecution, in order to refute the charge of oppression. The many convictions of this man had not cured his family; for a few days before
[1272The Attorney General
 denied, with great warmth, that the solicitor came into Court with two lists, and took what compromise he pleased. That gentleman, in receiving a compromise, never took into consideration the expenses of the prosecution, or what charges the crown might be put to; but he did consider the capacity of the party to pay, and if he could pay a reasonable sum without Inconvenience, he would put something to it in order to create inconvenience. The object of the excise laws was to occasion inconvenience, and so to deter from offences against them. If he had known this man's offences, he would not have agreed to any compromise.The Attorney General
1269 considered the course now pursued as extremely inconvenient, with reference to the general object in contemplation. The hon. gentleman proposed to repeal one or two particular statutes and leave to any other hon.
1269Lord A. Hamilton
de facto,[12681267 rose to call the attention of the House to a subject which he felt to be of great importance to that part of the country with which he was connected. He wished it to be understood, that he meant to throw no imputation on the laws of his country. He was confirmed in his veneration for those laws —no man could feel more. Indeed, he had never met with a Scotsman in his life, who would change the laws under which he lived, for those of any other country. But that very veneration led him to look with greater anxiety and more fear, to any thing objectionable connected with those laws. They had heard that a revision of the laws was idle and visionary and impracticable. That it was idle and visionary he would deny: for it was not idle to remove from the Statute Book,
de facto,[12681267Mr. Boswell
l.l.l. was quite sure that the worthy alderman had been himself imposed upon, although he had done all in his power to ascertain the truth. Such petitions prejudiced the general principles and prejudiced those who were really aggrieved. This man might fairly have paid 1,000l.l.l.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, that he held in his hand a petition very numerously and respectably signed, from the town of Thurso, in Caithness, against the imposition of any fresh duty upon coals. The anxiety and alarm, which even the unauthenticated rumour that such a measure was in contemplation, had excited in every part of the kingdom, and which particularly prevailed in the manufacturing districts of Scotland, had extended to the distant county, which he had the honour to represent.—He was happy to find that his own sentiments were confirmed by those pf the petitioners—and should, if necessary, give every opposition in his power to a tax so cruel and impolitic; a tax which would press so severely upon all classes of the community, but especially upon the indigent and industrious—a tax which, by increasing the price, would necessarily diminish the consumption of many important articles of manufacture and would thus prove very injurious to the commerce and revenue of the country.Mr. Sinclair
 brought up the report of the committee appointed to examine the Lords' Journals respecting any proceedings in that House upon the Chimney Sweepers Regulation bill. After which, he rose to move for leave to bring in a bill for the better regulation of the trade of chimney sweepers. After what had passed it was not his intention to propose any measure for the abolition altogether of the use of climbing boys. Whatever might be his own private opinion on the matter, the result of his former endeavours had been such, that he could not think such a proposition admissible. His object therefore, now was to regulate the trade, and to put the parties under a better charge, and in a better situation, than they had heretofore been. He was happy to inform the House, that he had had several consultations with the master chimney sweepers, and that the bill he should propose to the House had met with their entire approbation.—Leave granted.Mr. Bennet
 said, if he rightly understood the hon. gentleman, the subject of desuetude was not in question. He wished to repeal an act of parliament which was not in desuetude, but in force two years ago; he merely proposed an act to repeal another act, and the whole discussion would turn on the merits of the act proposed to be repealed. His opinion on the subject of desuetude was, that it was as much the law of Scotland that statutes fell into desuetude as it was that a man's eldest son succeeded to his landed estate.Mr. Brougham
[1270 observed, that in submitting his motion he wished to make one or two observations
[1270Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, he had brought forward his motion, in the first place, in order to relieve the wretched man. Whatever might have been the number and character of his former offences, they had no right to punish him but for this offence. Another object with him was, to expose the system itself. By correcting the system, an enormous expense might be saved to the country. The excessive severity of the excise laws, like the excessive severity of the criminal laws, counteracted its object.Mr. Alderman Waithman
1271 said, there was one thing which the worthy alderman had yet to learn, namely, that a member of parliament should not allow his credulity to be practised on by the tales of unprincipled persons. There never was a case founded on more deceptions grounds than the present: instead of being a case of hardship, it was a case of fraud committed by a notorious offender. The present motion was founded on the petition of Weaver, in which he said that he had been prosecuted for selling a quantity of Spanish juice, and that that was his first offence. Of the truth of this allegation the House would judge, when he informed them, that this man had formerly been twice convicted by the board of excise, once for smuggling tobacco, and once for smuggling tea; that he had been three times convicted of smuggling by the Thames police, and twice by the Shadwell police; and that in the course of the last month, and since his petition was presented, smuggled tobacco had been found in his house. While under the execution
1271Mr. Lushington
ex post facto thought some of the hon. gentleman's observations calculated to produce a wrong impression with regard to the present state of Scottish jurisprudence. The practice of regarding some statutes as fallen into desuetude, was dictated by the first principles of the law of Scotland. He was not desirous of opposing the motion, but must protest against the doctrine, that established contrary use could not outweigh an unrepealed enactment. These partial repeals operated as ex post factoMr. Mackenzie
 was sorry that so much of the time of the House had been occupied by so unworthy a case as that of a man five times convicted.Sir Isaac Coffin
[1274 rose to offer some observations on a most important subject, and to move for certain returns connected with it. If more frequent Gaol Deliveries took place, the number of prisoners confined in the different prisons throughout England and Wales, would be diminished in the proportion of at least one-half. Since he had first spoken upon this subject, he had received returns of the number confined at three several successive periods in Kent, Suffolk, and Essex. The House would see, that between October and January the number had increased; whereas, between January and March it had diminished. In Kent, on the 1st of October, there were 54; on the 1st of January, 108; and on the 15th of March, 177. Now, if gaol deliveries had taken place during these periods, he must contend those numbers would have been considerably less. When the returns he was about to move for, should have been laid upon the table, he would submit some specific proposition on the subject. In looking at the returns already prepared for the years 1817 and 1818, it would appear, that the total number of persons confined in the different gaols throughout the kingdom was, in round numbers, 13,000. Of that number there were 2,000 in each year, against whom either no bills were found, or who were not prosecuted, and 2,000 who were acquitted. In the period which elapsed between July and the Lent assises, many persons had been confined who had remained in prison perhaps fourteen or fifteen months before they had been tried—an enormous evil. Whatever the difficulties were, in which such delay originated, they ought to be done away with; and some regulation should be adopted, which should render it unnecessary that they should be detained in custody for so long a period, but, if possible, be brought to trial immediately. It was during that imprisonment that their morals became corrupted. When men first came to a prison, they looked with horror on their situations; but that horror wore off, and their
[1274Mr. Western
 said, that if unfortunately Mr. Quin had left town for Ireland, he thought it but reasonable that he should have the option of returning to this country. If it was determined to try his case again, he thought it was only fair to defer the notice for such a time at least as might afford him an opportunity of being so informed.Mr. Peel
1333[13321331quorum[13301329[13281327[1326***1325[1324of lord Arniston, in the case of Montrose, having been pronounced on the 23rd of January, 1747, and the poll-warrant having been granted to the burgh of Brechin on the 26th of June, 1747; and this allegation was again made by Mr. Hume, (member for Montrose, &c.), in the course of the debate. It was stated, however, in explanation by the lord advocate, that the memoralists of Inverness, their learned advisers, and the hon. member must be mistaken in the above statement; for in consequence of the style not being then altered, the year began upon the 25th of March, and therefore the 26th of June, 1747, preceded the 23rd of January, 1747. The judgment of lord Arniston, therefore, could pot have affected the proceedings of the king in council in the case of Brechin; and the alteration had more probably been occasioned by its having been discovered by the advisers of the Crown, that the magistrates and council of the burgh of Brechin, were in the predicament pointed out by the law officers of the Crown, and the lord justice clerk in their report, and that, therefore, there was a necessity in sound discretion for calling in the co-operation of the burgesses.1323***[1322***1321quorumquorum[1320† Montrose 1723, Haddington 1723, Dysart 1725, Jedburg 1728.***1319**[1318de jure1317‡ Jedburgh, 1690.† St. Andrews, 1692.***[1316ex necessitate1315***[1314***1313[1312***1311[13101309most grievous, oppressive, and humiliating of petty tyrannies[1308cives discretions et potentiores civitatiscivesper alderman-nos et alios cives discreiores et potentiores secundum consuetudinem supradictamby right and ancient custom were entitled to be there;discretiores dictœ civitatiscivibus nostris civilatis prœdictœ1307commounces, simple personesofficiarescommounes, simple personesofficiares[1306***frater gildœ1305***[1304Fratres Gildœprœpositiconcilium proborum hominumprœpositiprecones burgicommunitas villœconcilium commune proborum hominum villœLeges Burgorumcommunitas villœ1303communitatessufficientes viridiscretiprobi[1302***majorprœpositiStatuta GildœLeges Burgorum1301§***[13001299de jure[12981297[12961295[12941293[1292preceded1291[12901289**[1288*** 1333[13321331quorum[13301329[13281327[1326***1325[1324of lord Arniston, in the case of Montrose, having been pronounced on the 23rd of January, 1747, and the poll-warrant having been granted to the burgh of Brechin on the 26th of June, 1747; and this allegation was again made by Mr. Hume, (member for Montrose, &c.), in the course of the debate. It was stated, however, in explanation by the lord advocate, that the memoralists of Inverness, their learned advisers, and the hon. member must be mistaken in the above statement; for in consequence of the style not being then altered, the year began upon the 25th of March, and therefore the 26th of June, 1747, preceded the 23rd of January, 1747. The judgment of lord Arniston, therefore, could pot have affected the proceedings of the king in council in the case of Brechin; and the alteration had more probably been occasioned by its having been discovered by the advisers of the Crown, that the magistrates and council of the burgh of Brechin, were in the predicament pointed out by the law officers of the Crown, and the lord justice clerk in their report, and that, therefore, there was a necessity in sound discretion for calling in the co-operation of the burgesses.1323***[1322***1321quorumquorum[1320† Montrose 1723, Haddington 1723, Dysart 1725, Jedburg 1728.***1319**[1318de jure1317‡ Jedburgh, 1690.† St. Andrews, 1692.***[1316ex necessitate1315***[1314***1313[1312***1311[13101309most grievous, oppressive, and humiliating of petty tyrannies[1308cives discretions et potentiores civitatiscivesper alderman-nos et alios cives discreiores et potentiores secundum consuetudinem supradictamby right and ancient custom were entitled to be there;discretiores dictœ civitatiscivibus nostris civilatis prœdictœ1307commounces, simple personesofficiarescommounes, simple personesofficiares[1306***frater gildœ1305***[1304Fratres Gildœprœpositiconcilium proborum hominumprœpositiprecones burgicommunitas villœconcilium commune proborum hominum villœLeges Burgorumcommunitas villœ1303communitatessufficientes viridiscretiprobi[1302***majorprœpositiStatuta GildœLeges Burgorum1301§***[13001299de jure[12981297[12961295[12941293[1292preceded1291[12901289**[1288***The Lord Advocate
 denied having so applied them.The Lord Advocate
 bore the highest testimony to the character and honour of the magistrates of Aberdeen.Mr. James Fergusson
lll.;[1348l said, that he should have refrained from offering himself to the attention of the House upon the present occasion, had he not thought himself compelled to contradict some of the bold assertions of the noble lord who had originated this motion. When he heard such unfounded declarations made against a public body, nothing on earth should prevent him from speaking. He wished particularly to call the attention of the House to the observations of the noble lord, with respect to the finances of the town of Aberdeen. It had been stated that the town had been declared a bankrupt to the extent of 230,000lll.;[1348lMr. Forbes
 denied that he had interfered in the case alluded to, and assured the hon. member, that wherever he gained his information, it was false and unfounded.The Lord Advocate
1351 said, he would not have risen, but for the sentiments just delivered. He was quite willing to rest the whole case upon the admirable and lucid speech of his learned friend [a laugh]. That speech had been treated by the other side of the House, in a manner which sufficiently proved, that they were incompetent to reply to it. The great defect of the speeches on the other side was, that they assumed the whole case; for no one act of criminality had been established against the burgh of Aberdeen. All that the magistrates had done was for the improvement of the town, and there was not even an allegation of mal-administration. It was not just, because they had borrowed money of public charities, which had been freely lent, and the interest upon which had been regularly paid, to brand the whole body with fraud and malversation. It was quite obvious, that the object of the motion was exactly what it was so strenuously contended not to be. The noble mover had done his utmost to persuade the House, that he asked very little, that his motion was one that none could refuse; but, in fact, it was nothing else than to introduce into Scotland a parliamentary reform, which the other side of the House could not obtain for England. The disguise was too thin to cover the real purpose, however artfully the noble lord might have enveloped his motion in it. For his own part, he was decidedly of opinion, that after the act of union, the House had no jurisdiction to interpose, and whatever objections might now be made to the system of election, it was obvious, that the same opinion did not prevail in the reign of queen Anne; for one of the ancestors of the noble lord had himself brought forward a motion in the Scotch parliament, expressive of the highest approbation. Setting aside this point, however, no case for inquiry or interference had been established. Assertions might be very serviceable, especially if they were sufficiently bold; and it might be very convenient to some gentlemen to obtain a whig, instead of a tory magistracy; but, it became the House to be cautious how it listened to such statements. Another reason for not complying with the motion, therefore, was, that if
1351Lord Castlereagh
, in reply, complained of the unfairness with which he was treated by the noble lord who spoke last, and by the new lord of the Admiralty (sir G. Clerk.) The noble lord had charged him with introducing the question of parliamentary reform in disguise, though he had disclaimed such an intention, and would finally declare, that he disclaimed any such hypocritical conduct. He was not ashamed nor afraid to give his opinions upon parliamentary reform, whenever that subject was before the House, and least of all parliamentary reform as applicable to Scotland. And the new lord of the Admiralty, the new pupil in that new seminary of statesmen, had ventured to discredit, though not to contradict, his statement of this fact of a part of the debt of Aberdeen having been contracted under the sanction of forged or fraudulent minutes; but he still maintained that his statement was correct, and he would prove it to be so, if necessary, by depositions on oath, either before a committee, or at the bar of that House; and therefore, notwithstanding all that had been said, he would re-assert all his former positions, as he maintained that up to that moment they had received no contradiction. The noble lord had stated that the charities received 4 per cent, and that therefore they were not defrauded. They had contracted to receive 5 per cent for their money; but to whom was it owing that they received even what they did? Not to the self-elected magistrates, but to the trustees. He concluded by putting it to the House, whether they would continue in the Scots burghs the system under which the city of Aberdeen had been ruined, or deliver it over to a set of gentlemen, who, notwithstanding all the learned lord had said, were well qualified to elect their own magistrates, the burgesses of Scotland.Lord A. Hamilton
[1352 said, that as the
[1352Lord A. Hamilton
1287[12861285[1284sui generispoll1283setpoll[12821281apparentapparent[1280carte blanchellll1279l[12781277de facto[1276 said, that before he entered on the subject of the motion which he was now about to submit to the House, he wished to apologise for the length of time which had elapsed since he had first given notice of it. Had it depended only on him, he should have wished an earlier day. The delay had not proceeded from levity, or inattention to the House, nor from any doubts or dissentions among the parties whose cause he had undertaken, nor from any distrust in the cause itself; least of all, however, had the delay arisen from any change of opinion on his part; for the longer he inquired into the subject, the more he was confirmed in his first opinions upon it; the more he revolved it in his own mind, or conferred with others upon its principle, and details, the more he was convinced that the question was one of the greatest importance to Scotland, and of the greatest importance to that House. Before he proceeded to say what the question was, he wished to say what it was not. It was not connected with parliamentary reform, in any sense of the word. It was not a mere matter of local interest of the burgh of Aberdeen; but it was a matter of interest to every burgh in Scotland, and to every inhabitant of that country. It was not a speculative point, to which he was offering any speculative remedy, but it arose out of a practical evil most galling and extensive—actually felt and recently complained of. He wished also to state another point of some consequence. The subject of this motion was not unnecessarily introduced to the attention of the House, for the grievance complained of could only be remedied by the House. He meant that for the injuries and injustice, which had lately been committed in the burgh of Aberdeen, there existed no tribunal in Scotland of adequate jurisdiction, to afford prompt and effectual redress, even though the clearest and strongest case of injury and injustice should be manifest to all the world.1287[12861285[1284sui generispoll1283setpoll[12821281apparentapparent[1280carte blanchellll1279l[12781277de facto[1276 Lord Archibald Hamilton
 gave notice of his intention, on Tuesday next, to move an Address to the Prince Regent, praying him to remove from the office of custos rotulorum of the county of Limerick, the hon. Wyndham Quin. A member observed, that he believed Mr. Quin had gone to Ireland; and that so early a day would afford him no opportunity of being informed of the hon. gentleman's intentions.Mr. G. A. Ellis
 thought the observation of the hon. member not warranted by the practice of that House. The election of any day might be quite optional with gentlemen who had motions to submit; and it seemed, he thought, more agreeable to the hon. mover, that the business should be proceeded in now, rather than after the Easter holidays.Mr. Abercromby
 maintained, that the warrant passed, in the case of the burgh of Aberdeen, was illegal, and thought it scarcely probable that the lord advocate, who perhaps never was in Aberdeen, and his majesty's council, who knew nothing about it, could be better qualified to determine what was good for the people, than the people were themselves. He warned the House against abandoning an important town like Aberdeen to the management of those who had already injured it. Its population did not consist of a lawless mob, but of one of the most religious, moral, and loyal classes of people in the kingdom. The object sought for by them was not a wild reform, but the establishment of such a form of government as was alone capable of preserving the property of the burgh from being wantonly dissipated.Mr. Maxwell
 appealed to the House, whether they would sanction the application of such terms as false and unfounded to him.Mr. Hume
1347[13461345**[13441343***[1342probi homines villœleges burgorum1341[13401339[1338lllex officioll1337lcessio bonorumlll[1336ll1335[1334 hoped, that, as representative of the district of burghs to which Aberdeen belongs, he should receive the indulgence of the House in offering those observations, which a careful attention to the subject had suggested. He had listened with particular attention to the speech of
1347[13461345**[13441343***[1342probi homines villœleges burgorum1341[13401339[1338lllex officioll1337lcessio bonorumlll[1336ll1335[1334Mr. Hume
[1350 said, that when a particular case like the present occurred, the House was called upon to interpose The learned lord had made a long speech upon the law, but he had not touched the facts; and if he had proved that a practice existed, he had failed to show that it ought to exist. In fact, no man but the learned lord would have undertaken, in such unqualified terms, to defend the sys-
[1350Mr. Finlay
 hoped, in a matter of such deep interest, the House would not think of stifling the subject, but would suffer investigation to proceed to the utmost limits. A statement had been made, of which he saw no reason to doubt the authenticity, that the system hitherto pursued was calculated to destroy the best interests of the great town of Aberdeen, that the practice of electing magistrates was unsupported by any legal authority; and that the general system was fraught with dangers to the property of the burgh. These points had not been denied, and they undoubtedly were of a nature that demanded inquiry. Had such practices taken place in England, as were shown to have happened in the Scottish burgh, what would the House have thought of it? On such a subject, the English members were, perhaps, better calculated to decide than those immediately concerned; they should therefore bring, to the consideration of the subject, their cool judgment, and protect the people of Scotland from gross abuse.Mr. Wilberforce
1349 hoped the explanations given by the hon. member who had just set down, would have the effect of relieving the much-injured magistrates of Aberdeen from the gross misrepresentations which had been affixed to their character. He remarked, that the question of parliamentary reform had been most improperly involved in the subject now before the House; but the proper question was one relating solely to the burgh government of Scotland, which must necessarily be determined by reference to legal decisions. On this point, the learned lord advocate had exhausted the subject. Had honourable members read the former report of the committee of that House on this subject, it would be found, that the right of election had never been vested in the burgesses, and that the council had always, previous to the Union, been appointed for life. He then took a review of the cases decided on this point, and attempted to prove, by reference to these, that the uniform practice and principle had been as he had stated them. With reference either to the decisions of law, to constant practice, or to the discretionary exercise of the prerogative of the crown,
1349Sir George Clerk
 said, he knew not what the House could do in this case. It was a case on which the House could not enter. The charges in the petition highly affected the moral character of the individual against whom they were made. Yet still there was nothing in them illegal; for a man could do what he pleased with his own property. If the House could not afford relief in such cases, he did not see how they could receive any petition; for if they received it, he knew not where they were to stop. Supposing any great proprietor in this metropolis, lord Grosvenor or the duke of Bedford, for instance, who had a number of tenants from year to year, gave notice to all these tenants to remove, as they preferred to have large streets—this measure might be extremely oppressive to a number of individuals; but still he did not see how the House could afford redress.Mr. Wynn
 said, that whatever powers parliament might possess, they were in no degree applicable to the case in question. As the hon. gentleman had not stated a ground for the interference of the House, and as there could be no expectation of any remedy from the House, he suggested the propriety of withdrawing the petition. The case was one which excited a strong degree of commiseration for the sufferers; but the House as a body, could not act on a principle of humanity alone.Lord Castlereagh
1373[1372ll1371[1370 said, the petition contained a serious charge on a subject on which that House alone was able to afford a remedy, for though some fractional parts of the grievances which the peti-
1373[1372ll1371[1370Sir K. Wilson
[1374 advised the gallant officer to be cautious how he pledged himself as to the veracity of a person with whom he could have had so recent an acquaintance. As to the battle of Waterloo, of which the general had been the historian, it might be left to speak for itself, but of another encounter he imagined the general would be found not a very faithful historian. It was in itself highly improbable, as Mr. Capper went provided with instructions to attend to the request of the general as to the appeal, and even to facilitate it, that he should have committed unprovoked violence. If he was not misinformed, the general laid hold of a brace of pistols, loaded, which he presented; and if the two officers (for there were but two who followed Mr. Capper) had not seized them, the matter might have been brought to a more speedy conclusion. After this, he took up a dagger, but fortunately got the wrong end of it; in the division of it, consequently, the scabbard remained with the general, and the officer had the weapon. If the division had been reversed, perhaps the general might have been tempted to
[1374Lord Castlereagh
 urged the same facts which had been mentioned by Mr. Clive and lord Castlereagh, and contended that there was quite enough doubt thrown on the character of the petitioner to induce the House to hesitate ere they trusted to his accuracy.Mr. Bathurst
[1378 said, it was quite absurd to suppose that cruelty was impossible in a country in which such an execrable measure as the Alien act was passed into a law; for that act was the fruit and parent of cruelty, and men acting under it must necessarily be cruel. The conduct therefore which general Gourgaud complained of, was naturally to be expected from such a law. But yet it would be disgraceful to that House not to inquire into the complaints of the petitioner. These complaints ought indeed to be promptly investigated, and yet the noble lord had not intimated his intention to accede to the desire for taking his petition into consideration. But it was due to the honour and dignity of the country to have such a transaction investigated, especially as the main allegations of the petitioner were not even denied. The noble lord and the right hon. gentleman had dwelt particularly upon the irregularity and violence of general Gourgaud upon the road to Harwich. But in what did this irregularity and violence consist? Why, in a mere complaint of the ill-treatment which the general had received, and for such complaint one of the officers gave him a blow upon the head with a bludgeon. But it was insinuated that general Gourgaud sought to procure a rescue by his conduct upon the road. The idea however was quite absurd, especially as the general could not speak English. But the facts of this case, outrageous as they were, sunk into insignificance compared to the principle of the law upon which the proceeding was grounded. According to that law, it was pretended that the petitioner bad a right
[1378Mr. Hutchinson
 expressed a hope that the noble lord would follow up the proceedings already instituted, with such ulterior measure as might be best calculated to support the dignity of the House-When bribery had been proved to have existed in Barnstaple to such a gross extent—when it was shown that the trade of manufacturing members of parliament had been carried on there with such unblushing effrontery—it was absolutely necessary that the House should punish the offence, and show that it was laudably anxious at the same time to secure its own dignity and the welfare of the community.Sir J. Newport
 said, that this treasure Could not be in better hands than in those of his noble friend, and in the name of the committee, added, that all the members of it would be extremely willing to afford him every assistance.Lord Compton
 concurred in the sentiments expressed by the noble lord, and hoped the measure would be followed up to the utmost.Mr. Bennet
 said, it was a long cherished principle of his mind that some reform was necessary in the constitution of that House, but he also felt that unless some reform were effected, as well in the electors as in the elected, no effective good could be attained. He hoped measures Such as were now recommended, would have the effect of introducing some more extensive reform, but although he might not obtain all he desired, he was happy to take whatever he could get.Mr. W. Smith
 thought, that though this right bad been abused by the electors, the borough ought not therefore to be disfranchised.Mr. Blake
 explained his ideas of parliamentary reform, which, he said had never extended to the absurd doctrines of universal suffrage and annual parliaments.Mr. W. Smith
 observed, that the practice of parliament was not to disfranchise the borough, but to increase the number of voters from the adjacent hundreds. In the present case, the corruption was made out so clearly, that the noble lord would probably see the propriety of introducing a bill with a view to prevent the repetition of such disgraceful scenes. He was sure that every member would gladly lend his assistance towards forwarding such a measure.Mr. Wynn
 admitted, that corruption had been proved to a great extent in Barnstaple, and hoped it might be punished with the utmost severity; but the House should pause, and consider whether they might not strengthen the interests of one part of the community at the expense of the rest. Should boroughs be deprived of their exclusive representation, and the right of election be thrown open to the hundred, the interests of the trading and Commercial parts of the community might be sacrificed to those of agriculture.Mr. Alderman Heygate
[1392 said tbat he would support the principle of including the hundred,
[1392Mr. Gordon
 said, he did not wish to press himself forward on a task of this nature; yet as it seemed to be the desire of the House that he should proceed, he was willing to obey. His lordship concluded with moving for leave to bring in a bill to prevent bribery and corruption the election of members to serve in parliament for the borough of Barnstaple.Lord Clive
 recommended the adoption of a resolution as a foundation for the bill to be introduced, and the following resolution was agreed to: "That it appears to the House that a general system of corruption was practised at the last election for the borough of Barnstaple." Leave was then given to bring in the bill, and it was ordered, that the Speaker do not issue his warrant for making out a new writ for the borough of Barnstaple until the 30th of April. Mr. Wynn thought that the House, having thus ascertained the existence of the crime, ought to proceed to the punishment of the delinquent. It was therefore, on his motion, ordered, "That the Attorney-general be directed to prosecute sir Manasseh Masseh Lopes fop Bribery at the last Election for Barnstaple."Mr. Wynn
1375 thought his hon. friend had made out a case which called urgently for inquiry. He knew it was customary for gentlemen on the opposite side of the House, to meet statements of abuses by reflections on the characters of those persons on whose veracity these statements rested. No doubt the name of general Gourgaud, and the remembrance of his political connexions, were apt to excite prejudices in some persons minds; and perhaps he himself was not altogether free from those prejudices. But still a breach of the law of the land—a breach of that principle which regulated our intercourse with foreign nations, as well as of the principle which protected our internal property—the House were bound to watch with peculiar jealousy. The question respecting general Gourgaud divided itself into two branches. The first was, his having neglected to demand that he should be carried before the privy-council. They must all recollect, in the debate on the Alien bill, how much stress was laid by the gentlemen opposite, on that part of it which provided that the alien should have an appeal to the privy council; but how did the hon. gentleman meet this point? He had said, that general Gourgaud did not require to be brought before the privy council, but before a magistrate. Good God! were laws to be eluded on such quibbles? It was the duty of the officer to inform general Gourgaud what course he should pursue. This treatment was both ungenerous and unjust. He would appeal to those who, like himself, had occasionally found themselves friendless strangers in a foreign country, ignorant of the laws of that country and the regulations applicable to
1375Mr. F. Douglas
1377 was fully persuaded, that if any inquiry should take place, it would appear, that the ill usage complained of by general Gourgaud, was occasioned by provocation and resistance on his part. It was inconsistent with the national character to suppose that any Englishman, and especially a person of acknowledged humanity and reputation, would use violence towards a prisoner in the general's situation without adequate cause or necessity. He had chiefly risen to state his entire dissent from the opinions expressed by the hon. mover and others upon the subject of the Alien act; he thought that enactment highly salutary and expedient. It was consistent with the best interests of the country that a power should be vested in the executive government of
1377Mr. Sinclair
[1376 animadverted upon the observation of the noble lord and the hon. gentleman on the other side, that the allegation of general Gourgaud was contradicted by that of the officer by whom he was arrested; and that the question was, to which would the House attach credit? Now for his part he would always be disposed to decide rather in favour of the testimony of the oppressed than of that of the oppressor, because the contradiction of the latter was naturally to be looked for as the consequence of the complaint of the former, especially when an appeal was made to any tribunal not likely to grant impunity to acknowledged guilt. But it was not the fact that in this case the House had nothing but the assertion of the petitioner and the contradiction of the officer; for it appeared, that the allegation of general Gourgaud, as to the ill treatment he experienced upon his arrest, was corro-
[1376Mr. Bennet
 then withdrew the petition.Mr. Bennet
[1354 said, he held in his hand, a petition to which he begged leave to call the attention of the House. It was signed by the rector, the church-wardens, by the overseers of the poor, and a number of other respectable inhabitants of Ilchester. The series of grievances detailed in the petition were, he believed, founded in fact. Ilchester, as was well known, returned two members to parliament. It was patronized, and, if he might say so, it was the property of a particular individual (sir William Manners.) After the last election, a number of houses in the town were pulled down by the proprietor. The consequence of this was, upwards of a hundred families were forced out of the houses which they occupied, and placed in a species of poor-house, hired by the town from the same individual. About eighteen or twenty of those who were so turned out, were paupers, the rest were persons who earned their livelihood. But notice was given by that individual, that, in consequence of the continued political dissentions which prevailed in the town, he was resolved to take from them the house in question, so that those poor persons whose houses had been pulled down, were deprived of this last resource of a poor-house. They were accordingly all turned out: 163 men, women, and children, from one month old, to upwards of 80 years, were all turned out into the street, without knowing of a place to shelter themselves at a most inclement season of the year [Hear, hear!]. Some of them were able to get together some straw in the town-hall. Some of them betook themselves to the fields. Among the people so turned out, there were several pregnant women, and one woman daily expected the pangs of child-birth. It was stated that a mode, which in other cases had sometimes been resorted to, was here adopted for driving the people out of their houses. The upper stories were filled with dung, which, by oozing through the floors, rendered the lower parts uninhabitable. With respect to the petition, it was quite clear that this was
[1354Mr. Bennet
1369[1368, after professing his readiness to take the responsibility of the alleged violations of the law on himself, said, that when the petitioner first came to this country, the ministers had certainly an idea of him different from that, which they were afterwards compelled to entertain. Into the reasons
1369[1368Mr. H. Clive
1389 observed, that though there were no questions more important than those which proposed alterations in the existing law, there were none into which the House entered with greater reluctance, or which it was more difficult to carry in the affirmative, owing to the small but compact body which regularly opposed them. As his hon. friend had devoted hours, days, and months to this subject, as he had given up to it the whole of his time, which might have been applied to more profitable speculations, be trusted the House would pay the utmost attention to the various clauses and enactments of his bill. As he had no objection, to the greater part of them, he should reserve the observations which he had to make upon them, until the House went into a committee. He was, however, inclined to make a suggestion to his hon. friend, without which he was, perfectly convinced that the bill could not possibly pass. He would, separate it into two bills, and would embody in the first all that was matter of
1389Mr. Abercromby
"H. HOBHOUSE."1363[1362"H. HOBHOUSE."1361[1360║1359[13581357[1356 said, in rising to present the petition of which he had given notice, from general Gourgaud, he begged leave to state, that he was personally unacquainted with that individual. He presented it in compliance with the request of a distinguished foreigner who resided in this country, and who was a friend of general Gourgaud. He was discharging a duty incumbent on every member of parliament, in now presenting this petition to the House, relating as it did to the execution of the Alien act of last year—an act which still remained on the statute book, a shameful memorial of their departure from the old English principles, which so long governed the proceedings of this country towards foreigners. He should have felt some distrust in presenting a petition of this nature to the last parliament, but he was encouraged to present it to the present House of Commons, from the feeling which he had witnessed in it. He trusted at least that the House would consent to a deliberate investigation of the subject matter of any petition, complaining of illegal and
"H. HOBHOUSE."1363[1362"H. HOBHOUSE."1361[1360║1359[13581357[1356Mr. Lambton
[1380, in reply, maintained, that however it might have been lawful to arrest general Gourgaud, there was no law whatever to authorize the seizure of his papers. As to the character of the general, it was rather strange, that if that character were so exceptionable as some gentlemen would now insinuate, he should have been admitted to an acquaintance with a minister of the Crown, or how came he to dine with lord Bathurst? With regard to the terms in which the allegation of Mr. Capper was spoken of, he begged that in order to appreciate the character of that person, gentlemen would take the trouble of reading what referred to him in the report of the police committee of 1816. It would be there seen that this Mr. Benjamin Capper found his way into a gaming-house, accompanied by other police officers; that he there appeared in uniform with a drawn sword, and actually took away all the money on the table, for none of which he accounted. This appeared from the evidence of Mr. Nares, the magistrate, and after such evidence, he apprehended that no one
[1380Mr. Lambton
 said, he hoped the House would consider the delicate situation in which he stood as member for Ilchester. As member for that borough, it was his duty to present any petition from his constituents; but as the individual alluded to, had questioned his election for the borough, he felt a delicacy in presenting a petition reflecting on his conduct, and had therefore declined to present the petition. At the same time, he could bear testimony not only to the great respectability of the petitioners, but to the truth of every allegation contained in the petition. If cruelties, like those complained of, were tolerated in this country, he knew not what acts might not be committed.Mr. Merest
[1388lbonâ fide1387l[13861385[13841383[13821381, in rising to move the second reading of this bill, said, that in calling the attention of the House to the principal points of the bill, it would be necessary to allude to the steps which had been taken upon the same subject in the two last sessions of the last parliament. There were at that time petitions presented from various parts of the country, complaining of the grievances which existed under the bankrupt laws as they then stood. These petitions were referred to a committee, which was appointed in 1817. From the report of that committee, who had taken the greatest pains to make themselves acquainted with the subject, very valuable information had been derived. The committee of 1818 had added very materially to this information by their labours, and the result of both having gained publicity, had attracted great attention in every part of the country. The bill which he now held in his hand was not the same as the measure which had been proposed on a former occasion. It adopted, it was true, many of the improvements which were then suggested; but there were others added, calculated to obviate many grievances which were not fully entered into at that time. The principal grievances arising from the bankrupt laws, as they now stood, were kept in view, and would be met by what he thought appropriate enactments in the bill. The first great object would be to take such a proper care of the bankrupt's property, as to ensure the creditors, as well as the bankrupt himself, against that loss which they now so frequently sustained from the manner of proving debts. Another object would be to prevent the loss of many debts which it was found difficult to prove under the present system. A great object would also be, to do away the facility with which fraudulent bankrupts could at present obtain their certificates, to alter the law which inflicted
[1388lbonâ fide1387l[13861385[13841383[13821381Mr. J. Smith
 had some objections to different clauses in the bill, but agreed with the principle of it as far as it went.Mr. Alderman Waithman
s1355, said he happened a few days ago to see some gentlemen from the neighbourhood of Ilchester, who confirmed to him the reports of what had taken place there. He could hardly believe at first in the possibility. It was, however, but justice to say, that before the severe process was resorted to, the individuals forced out of their houses had had regular
s1355Mr. Dickinson
1379 observed, that from what had been so emphatically urged as to the high character for fidelity of general Gourgaud, he thought it right to state something which he happened to know of that officer at St. Helena, where the general stated to him, that he had great reason to complain of that scoundrel grand marshal (Bertrand); for so these persons were in the habit of speaking of each other. The general mentioned his ground of complaint. He said, that he had served in the army under Buonaparte in Russia, where he had so distinguished himself as to attract the favour of Napoleon; but
1379Sir G. Cockburn
 thought that ordering this petition to be printed, and entering the proceeding on the journals would be a species of exposure and publicity which might produce a salutary effect on the individual concerned.Sir J. Newport
 bore testimony to the unwearied assiduity of the hon. gentleman who had prepared this bill. Whatever benefit might arise from it, the country would be indebted for it to his hon. friend.Sir J. Newport
, from the Secret Committee on the affairs of the Bank presented the following Report:Mr. Peel
1401[1400l.l.l.l. then said, that in moving for leave to bring in a Bill, founded on the Report which had been read, he was relieved by that Report from the necessity of offering more than one or two observations; both because they would be premature, and because the committee itself had alleged sufficient grounds for the proposition. The object of the bill for which he moved, would be to restrain the issue of sovereigns for fractional payments under 51401[1400l.l.l.l.Mr. Peel
[1406l.bonâ fide1405 said, the hon. and learned gentleman had stated his opinion so fairly to the House, that he hoped there would be in the end no difference on the question. If the measure had been brought forward simply for the convenience of the Bank or for the support of its credit, it would have been unfit that it should be disposed of in the way now proposed. But they might discuss the measure without any view to the convenience or credit of the Bank; for the credit of that body was so high, that there would not have been any necessity to have interfered between the Bank and its creditors, except for public convenience. He concurred in opinion, that if they could not make out other grounds, the measure would be inexpedient in itself, as well as unfit to be passed thus rapidly through the House. The whole of the question therefore between him and the hon. and learned gentlemen was whether the course of proceeding now adopted was the proper one, or whether the precedent of 1797 should have been followed, in which case the executive first took measures and came to parliament for approbation and indemnity. But there was this marked distinction between the case of 1797 and the present, that though parliament then, as now, was sitting, yet at that time parliament was not deliberating on any measure of general policy with regard to the circulation; but apprehensions were communicated to the government, that the issues from the Bank would not only reduce the coin so as to make it incapable of supplying the purposes of circulation, but would deprive the public of the means requisite for carrying on the war. It was therefore felt at the time, that it belonged to the ministers of the Crown to interpose to protect the country against an imminent danger. The circumstances of the country were now totally different. An inquiry was pending as to the means of resuming cash payments. It would have been therefore an extraordinary step for the ministers of the Crown to interpose between the House and its committee, and before the committee or the House had come to a decision to decide themselves on so important a matter. If the hon.
[1406l.bonâ fide1405Lord Castlereagh
 considered the measure as intended only for the convenience of the Bank, and at the expense of the country. They would exchange their flimsy paper for gold, and inundate the country with it.Mr. Davies
[1412 said, the particular grounds of the measure could not be stated, as that would tend to destroy the very object which the committee had in view. The House had appointed a committee to examine into the state of the Bank with respect to the expediency of resuming cash payments; and if they had, as he conceived they ought, a proper confidence in that committee, that should be a sufficient ground for adopting a measure which they had declared to be necessary.
[1412Mr. Canning
 said, that when the proper time arrived to enter upon the details of this subject, he should be prepared to show that there was no inconsistency whatever between the principle of this bill, and the principle which governed his other arrangements on this subject. He only regretted that the measure had not been earlier introduced. The fact was, that hopes were entertained last year that the state of exchange might have come round, and obviated the inconveniences complained of.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
d.s.l.1415 said, that before this bill finally passed, he could not abstain from expressing his fear that the measure would be productive of more evil, than could be compensated by any good that might be expected to accrue from it. It was brought forward at a moment of great commercial pressure, and great suspicion in the monied part of the community, and appeared likely to occasion a degree of alarm extremely to be deprecated. The finding parliament run through a bill in this hurried manner, to prevent
d.s.l.1415Mr. Gurney
l.[1416, in moving the second reading of the Claims of France bill, assured the House, that in adjusting the claims, the commissioners had shown no favour to any particular class of claimants. The whole number of claimants was 1,046, and the gross amount of the demands
l.[1416Lord Castlereagh
 said, he could not allow even this stage of the bill to pass without stating that he had great doubts whether it would remove any of the difficulties in the present system, and particularly that of litigation.Mr. Bankes
1417 wished to know whether any more important measures than these would proceed from the committee on the poor laws. This was the second
1417Mr. R. Gordon
 wished it should be postponed.Mr. C. Tennyson
 said, that sufficient time had been allowed for considering the subject, and bringing forward all the objections to it.Sir G. Warrender
 thought, that such an important alteration as this in the qualification required, in order to be a representative for England, ought not to take place inconsiderately. If a Scotch candidate, with only a Scotch qualification, was made eligible for a seat in England, Ireland, and Wales, there should be at least a reciprocity. Now this bill offered no reciprocity. It gave to Scotchmen, or Scotch qualifications, an eligibility to represent counties in England, without rendering Englishmen, on English qualifications, eligible to represent Scotch counties.Sir C. Monck
[1418 said, that his hon. friend had mistaken the state of the case, from a want of acquaintance with the Scotch laws of representation. In Scotland, the candidate to represent a county, must be an elector in that county. A candidate, for instance, who had estates only in the county of Edinburgh, and was eligible for that county, could not stand for Lanark-
[1418Mr. Gordon
 contended, that the bill would have no other effect than to put the representation for the counties in the two kingdoms on the same footing. A Scotchman could by it stand for an English county on a Scotch qualification, as an Englishman could stand equally with a Scotchman for a Scotch county on an English qualification. They could both stand alike for the boroughs by former laws. In the Scotch counties, the law affected Scotchmen as much as Englishmen.Mr. Boswell
1419in capite said, that he could not, with satisfaction to himself, discharge his duty to his constituents and his country, without soliciting the earnest attention of the House to that change in the constitution of parliament, which this bill sought to introduce. By an article of the Union, in Scotland none were to be eligible to represent a shire or borough of that country in the parliament of Great Britain, who had not, by the laws of Scotland, been previously eligible to serve in the Scottish parliament. This was a reasonable provision for securing to Scotland the integrity of her intended representation by forty-five members, and had been closely adhered to; for at present, no individual but a person possessing a superiority, or tenancy 1419in capiteMr. C. Tennyson
 thought the bill just, both in its principle and application, and expressed his determination to support it.Mr. Primrose
[1420 spoke in favour of the original motion.[1420Sir George Clerk
 conceived the measure to be only a continuance of the system of restriction; with this difference, that when such a measure was proposed before, some grounds were stated for it, and those grounds discussed; but at present it was to be carried without any discussion of its merits. The only authority the House had was, that the measure was conceived necessary by the committee; but why it was so conceived was not explained. He looked upon it merely as part of that system, where the government, professing a wish for the resumption of cash-payments, were still determined to act with the Bank in preventing them.Lord A. Hamilton
s.l.s.l.1409 began by requesting the
s.l.s.l.1409Mr. Ricardo
[1414 wished to state his cordial concurrence in the measure proposed by the committee, and to express his regret
[1414Mr. Ellice
 withdrew the notice which he had given for a motion for an address to remove the hon. W. Quin from the situation of Custos Rotulorum of Limerick. In doing this he wished to explain that he had intended to found the address on the resolutions which the House had already adopted respecting that member. On reperusing those resolutions he was shaken in his opinion; and several gentlemen of more parliamentary experience whom he had consulted, thought that the words of those resolutions were not strong enough to warrant the proceeding he had contemplated. In what he had done he had been actuated by nothing but a sense of duty.Mr. Agar Ellis
l.s.l.s.l.[1408§1407necessitas suprema lex said, that this was one of the most important measures that could be brought before parliament; and if one thing surprised him more than another, it was the extraordinary composure with which the proposition had been received. Since the order of council in 1797, the Bank had been restricted from paying in cash; but within a few years they had been allowed to resume the payment in cash of all or any part of their notes, giving six weeks notice to the Speaker. They now said that the only remaining chance for the resumption of cash payments, that is, by the voluntary act of the Bank, should be taken away. The Bank by notices of 1816 and 1817,had agreed to pay in cash all notes dated before Jan. 1817; and as to the practice of paying fractional dividends in cash it had prevailed ever since the restriction. It was notorious, that many individuals had collected notes of the description which he had mentioned, without the idea of immediately turning them into gold, but satisfied with having by them what they could at any time obtain gold for, fortified as they were by the promises of the bank and the faith of the legislature. They would now find that the promises of the Bank were worth nothing, and that the faith of the legislature was not more valuable than the promises of the Bank; for those who from excessive wariness, or perhaps from caprice (and in such a country as this, a man should be permitted to indulge his caprices in relation to his own property) chose to possess notes convertible into gold, were cut off by an act of parliament passed through each House in a single night, from the property which was gratifying to their own private feelings. In slating the matter thus drily, he knew not how he could put it more impressively than in that shape. But it would be said, l.s.l.s.l.[1408§1407necessitas suprema lexMr. Tierney
[14041403[1402 said, he felt himself, in no small degree, embarrassed by the course taken by the chairman of the Bank Committee, and the House, he was persuaded, would feel itself in the same embarrassment; for a measure was proposed to them, not on their confidence in the responsible advisers of the Crown, not on their acquiescence in the arguments of a committee of their own; but, on the intimation of some particular reasons, and on the allegation of something not explained, which had passed in the committee, they were called on to pass a measure of great importance, not only without discussion, but without the possibility of discussion. This, to say the least of it, was an extraordinary proceeding. When, on another occasion, a great legislative measure was found necessary, on an emergency, the course of proceeding was not only different, but directly opposite. In 1797, the responsible ministers of the Crown having received information on which they could rely, of the danger which attended the issues from the Bank, issued an order in council to restrain them, and then called on the House for its sanction, not suddenly and without discussion, but in the ordinary way, and with all the opportunity of debate which the forms of the House allowed. On that occasion, indeed, the House was not put in possession of all the facts; but a committee was appointed, and on the report of that committee the House proceeded; that report, too, was accompanied with reasons, and whatever part of those reasons were founded on confidence in the committee, they had at any rate reasons, the validity of which they had ample time to examine. The objection which he had now to make was, that ministers had deviated from this precedent; that they had not issued an order in council, and recommended to the House to institute an inquiry, or to refer to the committee now sitting to consider the propriety of their proceeding, after which a measure might have been passed with every opportunity for deliberation and discussion. There were two reasons, on one or both of which the measure might be recommended—its necessity to maintain the credit of the Bank, or its subserviency to ulterior measures which the committee might have to recommend. If it was solely
[14041403[1402Mr. Brougham
l. said, it was a bad precedent, that, without any information, the House should be called upon to legislate in this hasty way; and for what?—that the Bank might be saved the issue of 700,000l.Mr. Calcraft
 could not conceive on what ground the hon. director could assert, that the measure of 1817 had received the concurrence of parliament. If the parliament were satisfied with one part of the measure, they could not be said to be satisfied with that which accompanied it—the extension of the Bank issue.Mr. Grenfell
 admitted the imperious importance of the subject, and the necessity of some measure to stem a tide which threatened to overwhelm the landed property of the country. He had not abandoned his original intention; but this was a case where delay was not loss of time, or, to use the words of lord Bacon, it was fit "to wait a little, that an end might be sooner arrived at." The topic was one of the greatest magnitude; and before any definitive step was taken, it was necessary to consult the public feeling and opinion. Such a division of sentiment at present prevailed, that it seemed hopeless to begin; and those who had most devoted their time to the subject, were, perhaps, least disposed to act with precipitation.Mr. F. Lewis
 presented a petition from certain British claimants on France, who complained of an erroneous construction of the convention of 1815. They prayed to be allowed to be heard by counsel before the commissioners, and, in the event of their decision being unfavourable, having the power of appeal to a competent tribunal.Mr. Huskisson
 said, that if the motion had only for its object to protect the Bank from the loss or sacrifice which a return to cash payments would produce to that corporation, he should not have given it his support. The noble lord, however, had overlooked the main question; namely, that under the present drain from foreign countries, it was impossible that the treasure of the Bank, if passed into circulation, could remain in the kingdom. He would venture confidently to state, that were the Bank to continue its partial payments in specie, and endeavour to repurchase at any price the treasure it expended it would not advance, but retard the object which the House and the country felt as most important. As the specie thus circulated would not remain in the country, it would to the public be useless, and as affecting the return to cash payments, it would tend to make that more impracticable to the Bank. With respect to the recommendation of the secret committee, it was to be viewed as a preliminary which the committee, contemplating ulterior measures, calculated to prevent the influence of the events that now retarded the return to cash payments, had prospectively suggested.Mr. Huskisson
 explained, that all he meant to state was, that the conduct of the Bank had met with general approbation.Mr. Manning
[1410 regretted that the right hon. gentleman opposite should have applied the term "stupid" to the proceedings hitherto adopted by the Bank. The payments in specie, which it was the object of this bill to suspend, had been made in concurrence with the wishes of parliament. If the step, therefore, on the part of the Bank, was a stupid one, there were others to share in the stupidity which attached to it. Circumstances, which could not have been foreseen at the time, had certainly, to a great extent defeated the intentions of the Bank, in making the payments to which he allotted. The Bank could not have foreseen the nego-
[1410Mr. Manning
 said, he never entertained a stronger conviction of the necessity of any measure than of that before the House. If he were an advocate for the continuance of the restriction, he would most certainly oppose the present motion; but he would support it, because he did not give credit to the Bank for sincerity in their declared willingness to resume cash payments, and wished that measure to be pressed upon them. If it were argued that an order in council might effect what this measure was intended to secure, he should say, that he did not know any measure more dangerous and more monstrous than such a one would be. When the House had confided the examination of the matter to a committee, who had the best possible means of getting information upon it, he thought it would be monstrous, if the ministers of the Crown, who could not be supposed to possess such information, were to take the matter as it were out of their hands, and advise the passing of such an order in council; which order would afterwards, in order to its being approved by the House, in all probability, be sent before the same committee for consideration. He thought that it was sufficient, that the committee had stated the measure to be necessary in order to facilitate the eventual general resumption of cash payments.Sir J. Newport
 found fault with the present commissioners, who did not appear to be acquainted with all the facts under which the claims had originated. It was fit that commercial men should be associated with them. The petitioners had advanced their property on the faith of the treaty of 1786, which provided that no seizure of private property should take place at the commencement of a new war between this country and France, and this was a circumstance which the commissioners ought not to leave out of consideration.Sir J. Newport
1413 could not allow the con-
1413Lord Althorp
l. stated, that the bank of Ireland, in consequence of certain notices similar to those issued by the Bank of England had been in die habit of paying in cash their notes under 20l.Mr. C. Grant
 thought, that even the learned gentleman must admit, that if the measure of last night was proper, it ought to be followed up by a similar provision for Ireland. The Bank of Ireland had pursued every step taken by the Bank of England, and if measures were not taken for the protection of Ireland they would not only do a great injustice to the Bank there, but render the measure of last night in a great degree nugatory; for, without such a guard, the force of circumstances would run immediately on Ireland. It was well known there had been a transmission of specie from Ireland to this country for the purpose of exportation, and without this protection it might be carried to a dangerous extent. With respect to the drainage of this morning, he had no information to give. Should it even not turn out to be so considerable as might be naturally expected, the circumstance might be accounted for on the supposition that many persons had been led to imagine, that, in consequence of what had occurred here last night, an application to the Bank for specie this morning would be useless.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought that the exaction of such an oath of office as had been proposed by the right hon. baronet was unwise, and bore too hard upon the frailty of human nature. A better way of preventing such negotiations for interest would be to visit the negotiators with heavy penalties, whenever they were discovered.Colonel Barry
1429[1428 rose to call the attention of the House to the state of disease in Ireland, and to move for the revival of the committee of last session, with a view to make farther inquiries upon the subject. It would be recollected that in consequence of the report of the committee of last session, a legislative measure was adopted, and one of the objects of the proposed committee would be to inquire into the effect and operation of that measure. That the measure had done good he was happy to admit. But unfortunately the ravages of disease still continued. Its rage was indeed such in the district with which he was more particularly connected, that within the last twelve months no less than 3,500 patients had been admitted into the fever hospitals of that district. But the want and misery which prevailed among the poor, and which prompted the violence of the fever, was really such that the unfortunate sufferers were better off even in the hospitals than elsewhere; for, out of doors, they were condemned to endure the aggravated distress, which too often drove them back again to seek relief in the hospitals from that disease, which distress mainly engendered. Of the spread and violence of that disease, the House might judge from this fact that in the counties of Dublin, Cork, Limerick and Waterford, no less than 43,000 patients had been admitted into the fever hospitals within a period of 15 months. After stating this melancholy fact, he hoped the House would not think he asked too much in calling for the appointment of a committee to consider of the means of providing some remedy or mitigation for such an alarming evil. If the House should agree with him in thinking that this committee should be appointed, it was his intention to move an instruction, for the committee to inquire not only as
1429[1428Sir J. Newport
[14321431[1430 rose to second the motion of the right hon. baronet, which he considered to be one of the utmost importance. It was of the utmost importance, because it would show the Irish public, that their interests were carefully watched in the British parliament, and because it would show the British public the distress and misery under which their fellow countrymen had been labouring in Ireland. He should commence the observations which he had to offer to the House, by observing, that till the winter set in, the epidemic prevailed very generally. Since that time, a considerable abatement had taken place in Waterford, in Limerick, in Cork, in Clonmel, and in Dublin. The periodical returns, which had been received up to February last, showed a striking improvement; and if he had not had those documents to refer to, a strong proof of his assertions would be found in the average rate of patients which had been admitted into the public hospital at Dublin during
[14321431[1430Mr. C. Grant
 thought the right hon. gentleman entitled to great praise for his conduct in Ireland, as well as for the generous and just sentiments which he had just delivered. He said, he imputed no blame to the Irish government, although he thought they had carried the principle of non-interference too far. They had also, perhaps, been too economical; but he hoped now to see fresh exertions made, which would eradicate the fever, and remove a disgrace from the country.Mr. W. Parnell
 said, that the sentiments expressed by the right hon. secretary, did equal honour to his head and heart. There was one point to which he wished the right hon. gentleman particularly to direct his attention, namely, that which related to absentees. That was a great and crying evil, and could not be too soon remedied. He paid a tribute to the memory of Mr. Mahony, of Cork, who had lost his life in consequence of his attendance upon those who were afflicted with the fever.Mr. Hutchinson
1433 rejoiced that the interests
1433Mr. Callaghan
 approved of the course the Irish government had pursued, and recommended that certain sums should be advanced out of the consolidated fund, to be expended in labour.Mr. V. Blake
 said, [he found in his visit to Ireland, that the great cause of its distresses consisted in want of capital. He had himself, in the course of last session, introduced a bill, the object of which was to encourage the introduction of English capital into that country. It was intended to enable capitalists to embark a portion of their property in trade, making them answerable only to the extent of the sums so advanced. The bill had passed the Commons, but was rejected in the Lords. Had it been passed into a law, he was quite sure its effect would have been most beneficial.Mr. Alderman Wood
 moved for leave to bring in a bill to regulate the mode of accounting in the royal burghs. His object was to render the mode of accounting more effectual than it was at present. He should be most happy to adopt any plan which might be thought better adapted to the purpose he had in view.The Lord Advocate
 expressed his entire concurrence with the principle on which the right hon. baronet's bill was founded.Mr. C. Grant
 supported the measure, as a corrollary to that respecting the Bank of England.Mr. Callaghan
d.l. said, he held in his hand a petition from a Mr. William Berry who had resided several years on the island of Guernsey, which was well deserving of the attention of the House. Mr. Berry stated, that by the laws of Guernsey, a great difference was made between the English born subjects and the native inhabitants, and that in that island every English born person was considered as an alien and a stranger. In consequence of the harsh treatment which the petitioner had experienced under these laws, he had presented a petition to his majesty in council. The result of that petition was, that a commission was issued in 1815, which cost the country nearly 5,000d.l.Mr. Bennet
[1424 said, he had heard nothing to make him withdraw the protest he had entered against the bill of last night; on the contrary, all the reasons he had heard in favour of the latter, were hostile to the proposed one. The right hon. gentleman who had introduced the subject last night, had had the advantage of being a member of the select committee and of using the authority of their recommendation in favour of the measure be proposed; but the right hon. gentleman who made the present motion had not stated any grounds drawn from that source, or from any desire on the part of the Bank of Ireland. Last night a statement had been made of the great drainage of specie out of this country, but the House had now heard no statement of facts, nor any thing respecting the opinion of the committee. The only ground alleged to-night in support of the measure was, that of the fitness of uniformity between the two countries; but that was evidently no reason for such a violent proceeding as the present. If the chancellor of the exchequer were now prepared to state generally what had happened this morning at the Bank, perhaps it would justify the call for the dispatch of last
[1424Mr. Brougham
[1426ll again stated his objections to the rapid proceeding in this bill without reasons alleged. It had been stated by his right hon. friend (Mr. Tierney) that the only question as to the former bill, was as to a sure of 3 or 400,000[1426llMr. Brougham
 said, it was rather extraordinary that the chancellor of the exchequer should imagine the speculators in bullion to be so short sighted as to take the debate of last night for an act of parliament. He thought the right hon. gentleman must know by his communication with these gentry, that however they might respect orders in council, or acts, or any thing which really prevented them from receiving cash, they had not much regard for speeches, and were not to be frightened by these "paper bullets of the brain" from the career of their gain. He could only take it for granted, from what had been said, that the drain on the Bank this day had not been considerable, for if it had, the right hon. gentleman would, no doubt, have been ready to urge it in favour of the measure before them. As to the measure before the House, he had not heard any of those arguments which should induce the House to adopt it.Mr. Calcraft
 thought that the measure now proposed was futile and useless. In the present situation of the people of Scotland, they were not disposed to be put off with a bill which would neither relieve their difficulties nor correct the glaring abuses which at present existed. It was admittted on all hands, that some measure was necessary; and it was almost as universally acknowledged, that this bill, now about to be introduced, would have no beneficial effect in correcting the growing abuses—Leave was given.Mr. Hume
 said, the bill had not been brought in yesterday on a point of etiquette towards the secretary for Ireland, who was then absent.Sir G. Hill
 observed, that the bill would have been introduced yesterday, but for the absence of his right hon. friend.Sir G. Hill
 said, it would almost appear that the committee on Bank affairs had wholly forgotten those of the Bank of Ireland, since no mention was made of them by any member of the committee; and yet it was on a sort of incipient report from that body, that the measure which passed yesterday was founded. He did not wish unnecessarily to inquire what the committee had been doing; but it would be satisfactory to the House to receive the same information, with respect to the Bank of Ireland, which they yesterday received with reference to the Bank of England. The right hon. gentleman had argued, that the Bank of Ireland would, in consequence of the measure adopted yesterday, be more liable to a sudden drain, than the Bank here. But he had left out of his calculation the very small issue of Bank of Ireland notes, compared with the vast number of Bank of England notes in circulation.Sir H. Parnell
1427 suggested to his right hon. friend, whether it would not be advisable, in consequence of the great powers which the clerk of the peace in Ireland enjoyed, from his having to register the different freeholders, to enact that no representative for an Irish county should hold the office of custos rotulorum, inasmuch as great abuses might possibly arise from the connection existing between the custos and the clerk of the peace Sir J. Newport replied, that the bill which he wished to introduce related to
1427Sir H. Parnell
 asked leave to bring in a bill to regulate the appointment and tenure of the office of clerk of the peace in Ireland. His object was, to assimilate, as far as possible, the office of the clerk of the peace in Ireland to the same office in England, and to make the former liable to a statute of William and Mary, exactly in the same manner as the latter was. No clause in the bill which he wished to present to the House was calculated to abrogate the clause of the 49th of the king, generally known by the name of Mr. Percival's clause; his intention was, to leave that act in full force. He intended, however, to introduce a clause, which should make the person holding the office swear before he entered upon it, that he had not paid any sum or sums of money for it, and that he did not reserve any part of the salary attached to it for any other individual.Sir John Newport
1425 said, it was due to the
1425Sir J. Newport
1439[1438** said, his hon. friend who had last sat down, had stated that those who were not disposed to goall the length of the hon. mover might nevertheless concur in the present motion; and he seemed to think that till the committee had made
1439[1438**Mr. Bathurst
 said, that from the line of conduct adopted by the hon. gentleman on the other side, one might be led to suppose, that there was no such thing as an executive government. Was the House to suppose that his majesty's ministers were unfit to devise any regulation for the management of the colony? If so, hon. gentlemen had better make a motion to remove them. He conceived that no sufficient grounds had been given for the motion, and should therefore vote against it.Mr. Marryat
1443[1442 said, he rose for the purpose of discharging one of those painful duties
1443[1442Mr. C. Tennyton
, after the result of the former petition, could not perceive how this could be received. The petitioners had had an opportunity of proving their allegations in the only way, in which charges of this nature ought to be decided—before an election committee. That was the tribunal to which resort ought to have been had; because the facts charged, if they could be proved, would go to vitiate the election itself; but that opportunity was not embraced; recognizances had not been entered into, and the matter was suffered to drop. He did not see what step the hon. member could take upon it as it now stood, except it would be to move a set of angry resolutions, and they would be productive of no other effect; at least not the effect of removing the member mentioned. He should therefore oppose the petition being brought up.Mr. Bathurst
 observed, that there was nothing before the House to justify the conclusion of the right hon. gentleman, that the subscribers to the present petition were those from whom the former petition emanated; and argued, that, from the rejection of the former petition, or the abandonment of that petition by the petitioners themselves, it did not follow that other gentlemen should be precluded from complaining of a breach of privilege; and in this case the breach was alleged to be of the grossest nature. It was the duty of the House, in his opinion, to examine this complaint, not with any view to the angry discussion which the right hon. gentleman deprecated; but in order that, if the duke of Marlborough should appear, upon inquiry to have been guilty of the improper conduct imputed to him, the House might come to an appropriate resolution, condemnatory of such conduct, and also pass an address, requiring the prosecution of his grace, by his majesty's attorney general. The House ought, indeed, in this case, to follow the precedent in the reign of Anne, when sir John Packington complained of a breach of privilege on the part of the bishop of Worcester, in using undue influence at an election for the city. But as this case was of great importance, he thought that time should be afforded for its further consideration, and therefore he moved an adjournment of the debate until the 27th instant.Mr. Serjeant Onslom
1445 thought that the case of the bishop of Worcester was not relevant to
1445Mr. Wynn
[1448 then moved, that the second petition be brought up. He could pot conceive bow any question of privilege, which referred to the interference of peers at elections, could ever be brought under the consideration of the House, if this petition were not received. In the first instance, a petition is presented, the subject of which necessarily contains a mention of the election, at which the interference, is averted to have taken place. The moment it appears that the matter of the petition concerns an election, it is voted to be an election petition; the parties, however, are told that they may present a petition, confining themselves to the question of privilege, and avoiding all expressions which can be supposed to touch of the merits of an election. Now, he did not know where a person could be found who could shape a petition of this sort, without stating that it belonged to a matter of election. The petition he was about to offer was from other individuals than those who had been before turned round. Their object was merely to inform the House of a gross breach of its privileges, and not to seek for redress for themselves. But the House seemed disposed not even to hear their complaint read; for understanding that it concerned a matter (though a mere matter of privilege) which arose out of, and was connected with the Oxford city election, as to the merits of which a former petition had been presented and disposed of, they were about to decide that it could not be received.[1448Mr. C. Tennyson
 then moved, that the petition of the mayor and other city magistrates, should be brought up. He said he should not regret that this debate had taken place, because it would be a warning which would in future prevent any one from making himself so ridiculous as to bring forward any question of this sort, since nothing but pain and discomfiture could recoil upon the petitioners. In his opinion, the best thing the House could now do, would be to rescind the standing orders of the House which solemnly declares that the "interference of peers is a high breach of privilege," and not by retaining it, delude the credulous and unwary.Mr. Tennyson
1447 observed, that as part of what had been said, particularly by the hon. member (Mr. Wynn) attributed to the petition statements which it did not contain, it was, in his opinion, clearly the proper course that the petition should be brought up and read, and then the debate might be pursued upon the question whether it should go to the committee of privileges. The former petition had been (as the House had determined) an election petition, from certain individuals who had not thought fit to prosecute it, and vindicate the privileges of the House at an enormous expense, a situation he thought the petitioners ought not then to have been placed in. The present was a petition and complaint from another set of individuals, upon a matter of privilege, and was quite another question. That it was so would be seen, if the petition was brought up and read. It had on the former occasion been urged, in debate, that the parties themselves, who were then sent to an election committee, might, if they did not like to prosecute their case, there, prefer another petition, confined to the question of privilege. This course had been taken; and they were now, to be told that the matter had been previously dispose of. Surely this would be a most ex-
1447Mr. Tennyson
1441 said, he had not contended that the colony should be abolished altogether, but merely that it was in a state which needed considerable alteration before any more female convicts were sent thither. He had objected to the sending out the present ship, because he saw that the same principles were acted upon as had been continued on former occasions. With respect to the observations on the general system of prostitution among the women, he should beg the indulgence, of the House to read one sentence of the evidence taken before the committee. It was asked of one of the witnesses, before the committee, whether the women
1441Mr. Bennet
1437[14361435[1434
1437[14361435[1434Mr. Bennet
 said, that the learned gentleman had misunderstood the real question under consideration. The question was not, whether the House would not investigate a charge with regard to breach of privilege, but whether it would act according to law by refusing investigation upon such a subject in any other form than that which the law prescribed. For the sake of the character of the House, and the consistency of its proceedings, it became necessary to discountenance a petition of this nature.Mr. Goulburn
 said, it was stated in evidence before the committee, that the number of females in the manufactory at Paramatta was 150, of whom 120 were nightly discharged with no means but prostitution to maintain themselves. The witness had been asked, how large a proportion of the females supported themselves by prostitution, and the answer was nine out of ten!Mr. Buxton
[1446 thought that this petition ought to be read, as the House would then be able to understand the allegations of it. He deemed it to be extremely strange that the rejection of the former petition should lead to the rejection of this also. The question appeared to him to be within a very narrow compass, and to be in plain English, nothing more nor less than this, whether the House would or would not allow their privileges to be violated. When such a question was brought before the House, it was, in his opinion, the duty of the House, to enter into an investigation of it without delay. When he had the honour of presenting a similar petition from the same quarter, within the first fourteen days, it was objected that "here is a petition affecting the return of one of our members in a case upon which a committee is appointed to decide. It may prejudice the minds of that committee, if it be noticed by the House in another shape, and therefore to avoid the consequences the Grenville committee alone should decide upon it." This argument led the House to decide that the former petition should go to a Grenville committee. The fact was, that the former petitioners declined to prosecute their petition in this way, because they were not disposed to incur a most enormous expense of an inquiry before such a committee, the result of which might be the return of a gentleman about whom the petitioners felt no particular interest. The present petition, however, appeared to contain some additional facts as to the breach of privilege, discovered since the former one was abandoned, and as it was not open to the objections urged on the former occasion, he thought that the subject should meet with the se-
[1446Mr. Denman
 supported what fell from Mr. Tennyson as to the petition being brought up and read, and confirmed Mr. T.'s statement as to what had been said in debate on the former occasion.Mr. Denman
 rose to second the motion, and trusted that what he was about to say would be the means of producing the universal concurrence of the House. His hon. friend, for the unwearied attention which he had paid to this subject, was entitled to the thanks and the gratitude of the country. What he wished to state, was, that it was not necessary for those who agreed to the present motion, to concur in all the sentiments uttered on the subject by his hon. friend. They were at present engaged in an inquiry into the state of the colony, both with regard to the manner in which convicts were transported thither, and the manner in which they were treated when there; and if they thought that remedies would suggest themselves to the committee now sitting, for the hardships, to which convicts were subjected, both on the voyage and while in that country, he could not think it but right to stay the sailing of this vessel, till the result of the committee's inquiries should be known. He concurred with his hon. friend in the opinion which he entertained of Mr. Marsden's character, and thought the testimony of that gentleman ought to have great weight, although he could not have been aware that a public use was to be made of his letters; for, with the exception of that addressed to the committee, they were all written to a friend in confidence.Mr. Wilberforce
 said, that it was perhaps only proper that he should remind the hon. gentleman that the former petition did not, pretend to be an election petition, but only a petition regarding a breach of privilege. The original question was, that the petition be brought up; the amendment was, that the farther consideration of this question be adjourned to the 27th of April.The Speaker
 did not intend to take up much of, the time of the House, as in the few remarks he, had to offer he would not follow the hon. member for Shrewsbury in his rambles to New South Wales, He had heard a great deal said about the height to which vice, and particularly that of prostitution, had arisen is the colony; but, from every thing which he could learn, he believed it was not so great as it; was in London. He could not see any end which the detention of the ship would answer, except one, which was a strong argument against it—that if the hon. gentleman wished to wait for the report of the committee, they would have very probably to delay the sailing until nearly the, close of the session, at which time the equinoxial gales would be near at hand, and then what a situation would these unfortunate females be exposed to? He gave credit to the hon. gentlemen for those humane feelings which prompted them to such steps; but he thought they were quite mistaken in their application, of, them on many occasions, if they continued in the same feeling, it would be better to have at once an act of parliament to reform human nature; for, by that means alone, could their views be reconciled to necessary practice.Sir T. B. Martin
1449 declared, that this report
1449Mr. Sumner
 thought, that very strong grounds ought to be assigned, to induce the House to delay the issuing of the new writ.Mr. Manning
 said, that as the report of the committee expressly declared, that no distinct acts of bribery could be fully established, it was not likely that any good purpose could be answered by the printing of the minutes.Mr. Grenfell
 thought that every subject coming before them, which affected the important question of purity of election, ought to receive the utmost attention of the House. It was not merely the borough of Camelford that was here concerned, but the character of that House.Mr. Moore
 was of opinion, that the committee ought to have presented a specific report to the House, as a guide for future proceedings in such cases. It really appeared to him to be the most inane thing that ever came into that House, The committee said, "we are satisfied in our own minds that certain corrupt proceedings existed in this borough, but there are no facts to justify such a step as asking the interference of parliament." He believed there was no precedent for such a proceeding as this. Some of the members of this committee, who were present at the drawing up of the report, had said, "there are no precedents for this, but why should not we establish one?" But, for himself, he had a great respect for precedents. With regard to delaying the writ, what good would that effect, unless there was a hope of being able, in the mean time, to establish a case of corruption?Mr. Macdonald
 having been on the committee, said, that when the resolution was proposed to the committee for this Special Report, it was shown that there was a system of corruption existing in the borough, which deserved the attention of the House. The number of electors was only 23, and from this circumstance it would be seen, how easily so small a body might be corrupted. Such corruption as was proved to have existed there, was very nearly connected with bribery, and a strong combination also was proved.Mr. W. Douglas
 said, that every thing was kept so nicely within bounds, that it was impossible to lay hold of a single circumstance upon which to ask the House to interfere. There was one single vote only which could be at all laid bold of; and that was upon so unimportant an occasion, comparatively speaking, that it was not thought worth bringing before the House. He should be happy if the minutes were ordered to be laid before them; and thought some strong resolution was required to mark the sense of the House upon the occasion.Mr. Mildmay
 begged the House to remember, that if there had been a majority for the sitting member, he would have been declared duly elected. Was it fair to adopt now such a proceeding as delaying the writ?Mr. S. Bourne
 said, that the committee had sat nearly a fortnight in investigating the merits of a case where there were only 23 electors. They had not been able to produce one act of bribery, and he contended, that in such a case there was no necessity for any delay in issuing the writ.Mr. B. Wilbraham
 begged to state, that in the only case in which two of the witnesses before the committee were brought in support of the fact of an act of bribery, they gave their evidence in such a way, that both were committed to Newgate.Mr. Macdonald
 contended, that it was a report founded on vague surmises only, and could only have been justified, had some specific and distinct case been made out.Mr. F. Douglas
 rose to second the motion, to the object of which it was his anxious wish to give all the support in his power, being thoroughly persuaded that the strongest hope of the Protestant religion in Ireland was in the enforcement of the universal residence of the parochial clergy.Mr. C. Grant
[14581457 concurred with the right hon. mover in deeming the residence of the parochial clergy in Ireland an object of paramount importance, and for that object he believed the Irish bishops were most earnestly Solicitous. In order to show that solicitude, he thought it right to lay before the House a summary of what had been done to carry into effect the report of 1807. It was known that in 1807 there were only 950 churches erected in the 1181 benefices in Ireland, so that there were no less than 233 benefices without any parish church. In each of those benefices, however, a commodious church was since built, while several old churches, which were previously more like barns, had undergone complete repair. The bishops and the board of first fruits were not therefore fairly chargeable with inactivity. But with a view to promote the universal residence of the clergy, it was confessedly necessary to provide glebe-houses, and therefore with the money granted by parliament, the board of first fruits had already purchased land for such houses in 239 benefices, and every endeavour was making to conclude similar
[14581457Mr. Leslie Foster
 expressed his wish to promote every measure that promised to urge the clergy of Ireland, as well as those of England, to do their duty. He was happy to hear of the particular testimony borne to the conduct of some Irish bishops. But this was not enough. The House should be satisfied that all those peculiarly entrusted with the care of religion and morals had done their duty; it was incumbent upon parliament to look for this satisfaction, and to show that it was prepared to enforce the performance of duty on the part of all, both high and low, without exception or favour.Mr. Wilberforce
[14541453[1452 said, he held in his hand the petition of a person of whom he knew nothing more than what was set forth in this statement, but of the correctness of which he had no reason to entertain a doubt. It contained the complaint of
[14541453[1452Sir R. Wilson
[1456l.l.1455 rose, pursuant to notice, to move an inquiry into the State of the Established Church in Ireland. It would be recollected, that in consequence of an address from that House an inquiry upon this subject was instituted in 1806, and that a report from the commission appointed on that occasion was laid before the House in the following year. One great object of this report was, to recommend the residence of the parochial clergy, and the propriety of considering the union or disunion of parishes in that country, by authority of the privy council. The union of parishes was such in Ireland, that in many parts the parish church was too remote from the residence of the Protestant parishioners, and this was obviously such an evil as to preclude the necessity of comment. When pasturage prevailed in Ireland and tithes were, comparatively unproductive, the union of several parishes, with a view to provide adequate subsistence for an incumbent, became a measure of necessity in a great degree. But then that necessity was abated as tillage advanced, and yet the union of parishes appeared to increase with that advancement; for while those unions were but 37 from 1718 to 1780, which was a period of above 60 years, they amounted to 25 within the interval of the 20 following years, namely from 1780 to 1800; and within the last 18 years they were no less than 34. Such an increase of unions appeared to him quite unaccountable, especially as the increase was accompanied by the universal and notorious advance of tillage. Here the right hon. baronet stated several instances in which different parishes were most inconveniently united, ever since the year 1807. These were circumstances to which he felt it his duty to call the attention of the House and the government and both must be aware of the necessity of affording to the Protestants of Ireland an opportunity of performing their religious worship. Of the injuries resulting
[1456l.l.1455Sir J. Newport
 said, that being under no restriction, express or implied, from the party, he would mention the name of the writer of the letter which he had quoted. The writer was colonel Bagot, a gentleman of the utmost respectability. The name of the incumbent alluded to was Cox, who was a connexion of the bishop of Kildare, by whom Mr. Cox was appointed to the incumbency, while he held another situation in the cathedral of Kildare.Sir J. Newport
llll1459 observed, that the principle of this measure had been approved by the last parliament. It was originally brought under the consideration of the House by numerous petitions from Yorkshire, and the greater part of the mining districts. It being a practice that rents should be reserved in ore, it had been originally supposed that they were liable to be assessed
llll1459Mr. Morrit
 said, that as far as he was able to judge, the hon. gentleman had confined his observations to lead mines alone; but if this bill were carried into a law, all the mines in the kingdom might be equally liable to be taxed. The hon. gentleman was right when he said that iron mines had never been taxed; and he might have affirmed the same of lead mines. He believed the owners of lead mines had first been subjected to a tax, on the supposition that the ore being found on the soil, made them liable for the rates. But, if the hon. gentleman would refer to the 43rd of Elizabeth, he would find that lead mines had never paid rates. He looked on this measure as one which tended to increase the demoralizing influence under which the poor were already placed. If the present system of the poor laws had a demoralizing tendency, until these laws were amended let no more property be dragged under their operation.Colonel Wood
 objected to the bill as being a partial measure, and only calculated to relieve a few parishes in one county. He thought if iron was to be exempted from its operation, copper ought to be equally so.Mr. Alderman Wood
 objected to this bill, as being partial in its operation; if it was general, and went to impose a liability to the poor-rates oh all mines, he would not object to it; but he could not agree to tax one species of mines, and that too which was the least able to pay. The hon. baronet concluded by moving, that the bill be read a second time on this day six months.Sir James Graham
 said, that the 43rd of Elizabeth had been quoted as authority to prove that lead mines were not originally liable to the poor-rates; but it ought to be observed, that that statute referred to the speculator, and not to the lessee. Though such an exemption was made in favour of the former, yet it had been very properly withheld from the latter. The hon. member said, that the bill had his most cordial support.Mr. Curwen
 was decidedly of opinion that the bill ought to pass into a law. This measure had been introduced last year, and was not then lost, but defeated by parliament being dissolved; there ought not then to be any prejudice against it, from a supposition of its having been previously negatived. Much had been said about the cheapness with which landed proprietors in the neighbourhood of mines procured labour, but it was to be observed, that the great number of paupers, and consequently of the poor-rates, was caused, not by the landholder, but by the miner; as the work to be obtained at the mines caused an immense increase of population, whereas if there had been no mines the parish would be inhabited by a few farmers, sufficient merely to cultivate the ground.Lord Milton
[1462 (sir C. Robinson) rose, and opposed the further progress of the measure, which he thought not at all called for by the present state of things. He contended, that the House was not yet in a state of information to enable it to proceed upon a matter of so much importance. It was true, that some very hard terms had been employed in the attack made by the learned doctor on a former night, but none of them were warranted by the fact. The learned doctor had contented himself with broad assertions, and had formed his law according to his own notions, but it was by no means calculated to produce any beneficial effect. He then entered into an examination of the origin of the marriage laws, and into the necessity of affording a protection to the young and inexperienced persons who might be made the dupes of designing individuals. He did not deny that there were some defects in the existing law, which it might be fit, at a proper time and with proper lights, to remedy; but not in the general and sweeping manner proposed by the measure now under consideration. He was convinced that
[1462The Kings Advocate
 Onslow contended, that the principle of the bill was good, but thought that there were some of the provisions which might be advantageously omitted, and that there were some deficiencies which might be advantageously supplied.Mr. Serjeant
 opposed the bill upon the grounds that it was completely contradictory in its spirit and tendency to the general marriage act. It would be impossible to support the present measure unless the clause by which the marriage of minors without the consent of their parents was declared null and void, should be observed. By the present bill, a principle totally unknown to the English law would be introduced, and unless the House intended to destroy the vital principle of the marriage act, the amendment must be carried.The Solicitor General
[14761475[1474in formâ pauperis.in formâ pauperis.in formâ pauperis,1473[14721471[1470 rose to move the order of the day, for the House resolving itself into a committee on this bill, and said, that the House had hitherto indulged him by permitting the bill to advance to the present stage, without any statement of its object or of the principles upon which ' it was founded. He had abstained from saying any thing from the state of the House, when it was read a second time, but he had now some cause to regret the course he had followed, because the subject was one of a most delicate nature, and such as could not fail to excite great interest in that part of the empire to which it immediately related. It was a subject on which it was of peculiar importance, that any one who ventured to make a proposition to the House should not be misunderstood. It was essential that a true view of the intentions in which the measure originated should go forth to the public,—that the public mind should not be permitted to remain in error. He hoped the House would bear with him While he stated as briefly as he could, the object and the bearings of the measure which he had presumed to introduce to their consideration; and which he hoped might not be altogether uninteresting in reference to the difficulties which the same subject presented in England. The measure had been in his contemplation for some time, and about two years ago, when he had not the honour of a seat in that House, an hon. and learned friend of his had given notice of his intention to bring it forward; but the committee on the poor laws had then been appointed, and in deference to that committee, not from any change of opinion, that hon.
[14761475[1474in formâ pauperis.in formâ pauperis.in formâ pauperis,1473[14721471[1470Mr. Kennedy
 said, he should not oppose the commitment of the bill, but it appeared to him that the measure would not be attended with that advantage which the hon. member supposed.The Lord Advocate
 suggested the propriety of postponing the second reading to a later period. The bill introduced by the learned lord last session, to which the present bill was similar, had been almost universally disapproved of in Scotland. He wished that those who were interested in the measure might have time to consider it.Mr. J. P. Grant
 said, he had withdrawn the measure last session for the purpose of giving time to take it into consideration, and early in the present session he had given notice that he would bring it forward again. In all the petitions from the burghs of Scotland the principal grievance complained of was, the want of a check on the expenditure of the magistrates. A notice of a motion had been given for referring these petitions to a committee. Now, if this bill should pass into a law, one of the principal grievances of the petitioners would be removed. This was ostensibly the great object which they wished, but the true object was parliamentary reform.The Lord Advocate
1477 said, that in every one of the petitions, it was not the impossibility of forcing the magistrates to account, but the self-election of the ma-
1477Lord A. Hamilton
 said, he had received an application for the printed bill from the magistrates of Stirling, which he had sent down to them, but no answer had yet been returned to him. In that burgh auditors were appointed by the guildery and incorporated trades; the funds of the burgh were in a flourishing state, and they conceived the appointing auditors under the control of the persons interested in the expenditure the best remedy For the evil which it was the object of the learned lord's bill to guard against. He concluded with moving, as an amendment, that the bill be read a second time on the 10th of May.Mr. Primrose
 said, he had also sent down the bill to his constituents, who had not had time to consider it,Mr. Hume
 agreed that the bill of last year was not considered in Scotland a sufficient remedy for the evil, and hoped that an opportunity would now be given to the persons interested to peruse the bill as rectified by the learned lord.Mr. W. Douglas
 said, that the persons interested in this measure, after being enlightened by the discussion on the second reading, would be better able to judge of the alterations which might be necessary and which might be proposed in the committee.The Lord Advocate
 observed, that the object of the learned lord, in hurrying on the second reading, seemed to be, to deliver political lectures in that House for the benefit of the people of Scotland. He, for one, was not desirous of instructing the inhabitants of Stirling and Aberdeen in the best method of controlling their magistrates; he was desirous of receiving information from them, and not of conveying information to them.Sir James Mackintosh
 thought the information from Scotland might be more advantageously considered in the committee.Lord Castlereagh
[1478 observed, that this bill was a minor point with the burgesses of Scotland; their object was a certain reform of the burghs. He would not say whether such a reform might not be de-
[1478Mr. Forbes
 said, that no measure had been received in Scotland with more reprobation than the bill of the learned lord. The bill of last session was extremely unnecessary. The accounts of the Scots burghs were extremely correct.Mr. Finlay
 objected to several parts of the bill. As it was now worded, it would be impossible to say to what class of persons parochial relief might be granted or refused. It ought to be divided into two bills, that the House might have an opportunity of discussing the two distinct measures that it involved.Mr. F. Lewis
 objected to some of the clauses of the bill. The last clause made it imperative on the poor to subscribe to the funds of these societies, under the penalty of being refused parish relief, and being considered as improvident, extravagant, and undeserving persons. This would almost subject them to the penalties of the Vagrant act.Sir R. Wilson
 was sensible that the bill as it now stood was liable to objections; but he was persuaded that they might be remedied in the committee. The poor persons who refused to subscribe, were not subject to the penalties alluded to by the hon. general, but were to be considered as extravagant and improvident persons, in the sense of the act regarding the poor passed in the present session.Mr. Courtenay
1479 said, that the measure he had to propose, was simple and short, and not liable to objection. The committee was aware, that by a Convention with the United States, the Americans possessed the right of fishing on the coasts of a considerable part of his majesty's North American possessions. This right they had, by the recent convention renounced. It so happened, however, that there was no municipal law to enforce this treaty, and
1479Mr. Robinson
v.[1468Cognita sunt, prolemque ex se videre creatam.Castaque privatæ Veneris connubia lætaTam mulier conjuncta viro concessit in unamv.1467v.v.v.v.v.v.v.v.[1466**v.✶1465 said, that agreeing as he did in most of the statements which had been so forcibly urged by his hon. and learned friend who had immediately preceded him, be could not however concur with him in the sweeping condemnation which he had pronounced against the marriage act. The foundation of that act was, that the marriages of minors should be solemnized either with the consent of their parents and guardians, or under such circumstances of publicity and previous notice as should afford to all who had an interest in opposing the union which was about to take place, an opportunity of so doing. Was this objectionable in principle? Surely it was adviseable that minors who, by the policy of the law, were protected in all other contracts, should be protected also in the most important and solemn contract which they could form,—the one, too, in which, from the passions and temptations incident to their time of life, they are most likely to be deceived. The objections to the act— the evils he was anxious to remedy, arose, in one branch of it (i. e. with respect to marriages by licence) from the sanctions and penalties by which the provisions of the act were enforced,—sanctions holding out such encouragement to fraud, and a lure to perfidy, that they were a disgrace to the statute book—penalties so tremendous, breathing such vengeance, as it were, against posterity, that eminent judges in expounding the law, had been compelled to admit that it was intended to operate against the innocent. In the other branch of it (i. e. with respect to marriages by bans), to the facilities by which the provisions of it were evaded. The arguments urged against the bill by the solicitor general were if analysed entirely of a technical nature; those of the king's advocate were resolvable into this, that the House ought never to think of altering a measure which nearly 70 years ago was introduced into parliament by the twelve judges and lord Hardwicke. In the first place, the twelve judges could not introduce any measure into parliament; and in the next, the bill which was submitted to their consideration, never obtained the sanction of the legislature: and with respect to lord Hardwicke it happened most unfortunately for those who wished to shelter their opposition to the present measure under the authority of his venerable name, that he was well aware of the evils of the bill as it finally passed the legislature, and looked
v.[1468Cognita sunt, prolemque ex se videre creatam.Castaque privatæ Veneris connubia lætaTam mulier conjuncta viro concessit in unamv.1467v.v.v.v.v.v.v.v.[1466**v.✶1465Dr. Phillimore
 having moved the order of the day for the further consideration of the report of this bill,Dr. Phillimore
1463 conceived that this was as important a subject as any that had recently come before them, inasmuch as it was one upon which the happiness of society in a great measure depended. He therefore thought himself justified in saying a few words to the House upon the objections which had been urged against the measure of his hon. and learned friend. The first objection adduced against it was, that it would be a departure from the law itself. To this charge he must plead guilty, because
1463Sir James Mackintosh
 had strong doubts of the utility of such a bill; the hon. gentleman had not shown any grounds for it; there were no petitions before them on the subject, neither were there any returns of the number of factories in Ireland, nor of the number of children employed in. them. The hon. member wished, that several philanthropic societies, with whose existence a great part of the House was not acquainted, should have the power of entering into the different factories, and of classifying men and women according to their views and notions. This was so novel a proceeding, that some very extraordinary grounds should be shown for it. Then, if these societies were satisfied, and if they certified their satisfaction with the internal regulation of the factories, the proprietors were to be exempted from the assessed taxes. This was even more novel than the proceeding to which he had before alluded, and required, if possible, stronger reasons in order to defend it.Sir George Hill
 spoke in behalf of the bill. With regard to two of the societies, to whose existence the hon. baronet had alluded with such contempt, he was not, perhaps, aware that they had been recognized by the House, and that grants of money were annually made to them.Sir John Newport
 said, that upon a former occasion he had expressed his dissent to the enactment of any laws which went to benefit either England or Ireland separately; that dissent he must again repeat, because he could not see any reason for not extending a measure which was beneficial in one country, to the natives of the other.Mr. Croker
 objected to the resting of such power in Bible societies and societies for the suppression of vice. The state of things in Ireland must be very different from the state of things in England, if such a system could be at all beneficial; an attempt at compulsory education could not possibly succeed in this country, nor did he think it likely to prosper in the sister island.Mr. G. Philips
lllllllll[1482 rose, in pursuance of notice, to move that there be laid before the House, certain accounts to enable it to judge how far it might be expedient to apply the sinking fund of the year towards any loan to be raised for the public service. By a clause in the Sinking Fund act, it was provided that the commissioners for the redemption of the national debt might, in the case of a loan to government, use a portion of the capital in their hands for the purchase of certain portions of such loan, that was, that they might be subscribers. This clause was called Mr. Fox's. It was proposed by that gentleman, and readily adopted by Mr. Pitt. Now, the operation of that clause it might be of great importance for the House to consider. He had not heard from any official source that a loan was to be taken up. It was, however, very currently stated and believed in the course of the day. He had heard various accounts of
lllllllll[1482Mr. Grenfell
in banconisi prius, rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill for facilitating the dispatch of business in the court of King's-bench. He would shortly state the objects which this bill purported should embrace. The first was to allow one of the judges to sit and hear causes at in banconisi prius,Mr. Denman
s.l. thought the House indebted to his hon. and learned friend, for bringing the question before them; for after two committees had been appointed to inquire into the subject, the country would have felt disappointed if the House had separated without expressing any opinion. He was astonished to hear the manner in which that tax had been defended; for it was reserved to them that night to hear, that a tax so heavy as this, on a necessary of life, could be endured without difficulty, and was on its merits fit to be continued. It was one of the first acts of lord Sidmoath's administration to declare that it was fit that this tax should be repealed on the first opportunity, and on the renewal of the war the same declaration was again made. It had been said, that till the late sir T. Barnard moved the subject, the burthen of the tax had never been felt. Those who made this assertion knew little of the lower orders; it had always been considered as a grievance; and how was it possible that this should not be the case, when a labourer in husbandry, with a wife and three children, whose wages in many parts of the country did not exceed from 18 to 20s.l.Lord Ebrington
1491 said, that he had not, after the able speech of his right hon. friend, intended to trespass on the attention of the House, but having been alluded to as chairman of a Commit-tee connected with the subject in a former administration, he felt it right to explain the reasons why he held an opinion now which might seem different from that which was then entertained. The circumstances of the country were since wholly changed, at least so much that it
1491The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he should vote for the previous question—not because he coincided with the views of the chancellor of the exchequer respecting the tax, but because it was imprudent for the House to pledge itself to do hereafter what it was unable to do at this time. He should however be glad to vote directly for the abolition of the tax, and to replace it by the best substitute, a direct tax,Earl Comptain
[1492 observed, that in maritime places the regulations with regard to the salt permitted to be used for home consumption, were so vexatious that no person of property would become responsible for the dealers. The hon. member dwelt upon the various disadvantages resulting from the operation of the salt duties, and therefore he was an advocate for their total repeal. But yet, in the present circumstances of the country, he could not accede to the destruction of the resource arising out of these duties; nor could, he admit the policy of their gradual reduction, because such a course
[1492Mr. Davies Gilbert
 said, he would not enter into the statements made. He hoped the House would decide this question on higher grounds. No principle was better understood than this, that a judge, in his judicial capacity was not accountable for any involuntary error. He hoped there was no reason for departing from this principle. There was not here the slightest imputation of partiality or corruption-there was not then the slightest shadow for such a charge. He much regretted that the hon. gentleman should have brought forward this motion. The high character of the learned judge should have protected him from a charge for which there was no foundation whatever.Mr. C. Grant
[14941493, rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice, with respect to the conduct of baron M'Clelland in the trial of Edward
[14941493Mr. Martin, of Galway
 said, that on principle the motion could not be sustained, and that it was altogether unsupported by facts. There was nothing in the Conduct of the learned judge that could expose him even to the suspicion of partiality or corruption.The Attorney General
[1504rose to reply. He said, it bad been asserted, that he had not imputed corrupt motives to the learned gentleman; he would now say, that the conduct of baron M'Clelland was corrupt. He applied the term in the legal and proper sense of the word. He might not have been corrupt for money; but he acted on the seat of justice from motives of personal resentment. He therefore charged baron M'Clelland with corruption, and he would prove the charge, if the papers he moved For should be given. When these papers should be granted, he would then consider what course to take, whether he should move for the dismissal of baron M'Clelland for weakness and incapacity, or whether he should move that he be dismissed and censured for corruption. As for the transaction that took place in Galway, he would state it to the House. Here the hon. gentleman entered into a detail of the facts connected with a dispute he had with a Mr. Daly, which he described in so very theatrical a manner as to keep the House in a continued roar of laughter. He complained that at a prosecution which took place in consequence of this dispute before the learned judge, he was prevented, though a party, either to cross examine Mr. Daly, or to speak to evidence. As to the trial of Burke, his (Mr. Martin's) counsel publicly stated, mat if the arguments they had urged could have no weight with the judge, it would be no use to urge any thing further; and Mr. Grampton satirically said, that his lordship was about to non-suit the crown. Baron M'Clelland had an accommodating disposition. He would not reply to Mr. Crampton, because he knew that gentleman was connected with Mr. solicitor general Bus he. The baron had been always remarkable for his attentions to the great; he partook of the qualities of the hare and the tiger-he had all the timidity of the one, and all the ferocity of the other; he had been, through life, remark able for his submission to those above him, and to those below him, if any person could be below him, he was harsh, arro-
[1504Mr. Martin
[1502 observed that, although he had the honour to be personally acquainted with the learned judge, now under the public notice of the House, he should not speak of him with regard to those private virtues which, independent of his situation, would render him so incapable of an act of injustice or bad feeling. He begged to assure the hon. member who had made this motion, that he supposed him to be acting on feelings of the greatest propriety—either imagining himself individually aggrieved by the award of judgment, and, therefore, seeking redress from the impartiality of this House; or, induced by the motive of serving the public, in bringing to light and conviction instances of abuse on the bench. In either case, that hon. member must be aware of the importance, that an unsullied and un impeached reputation should attach to the judges of this land; and, therefore, he was bound to believe that this was not an accusation lightly made, and that a high judicial character had not been wantonly dragged to solemn examination before that House. He felt himself bound to state, diffidently on his own judgment and experience, but authoritatively on the uncontradicted testimony of all whom he had consulted on this occasion, that never was there a man more fortified by his character than the learned judge against accusations of this kind, both by his abilities as a lawyer, and the active, unceasing, uncompromising discharge of his duty as a judge. But, what was shortly the circumstance that had been attributed to the learned judge, and not singly to him, but to the late judge Osborne, who presided with him, and whose name had been suppressed. At a commission where these two learned judges presided, the hon. member for Galway was himself the prosecutor of an attorney of the name of Burke, for corrupt perjury; and no evidence appearing to substantiate the charge, the prisoner was about to be given in charge to the jury, when the pro-
[1502Mr. Brownlow
 said, that the question was so narrowed by the inquiries which had been already instituted, that all that was necessary appeared to him to be to refer the House to the reports of the committees. Those reports, in common with the doctrines of all modern writers of authority on the subject, agreed in pronouncing this to be the worst of all bad taxes. It originated in a blind policy, and was in its operation as injurious to the poor, as it was discouraging to agriculture, and destructive of the fisheries. Foreigners were enriching themselves from the greatest source of wealth that Providence in its bounty had bestowed upon us. By an enormous duty on an article of necessary subsistence, we at once deprived ourselves of a nursery for seamen, and held out an irresistible temptation to fraudulent practices.Mr. Davenport
 spoke in favour of the resolutions, and urged the necessity of considering the means of collecting the revenues of the country generally in a less vexatious and expensive manner than at present prevailed.Mr. Protheroe
[1490l.l.s.l.1489 said, that the right hon. gentleman observed, that the tax was fair and equitable, because it was general; but did he not know that it pressed much more grievously on the lower than on the higher classes of society? Did not the right hon. gentleman know that four ounces of salt were required for every stone of flour used in bread, which constituted so large a portion of the subsistence of the poor? From the income of the rich the tax on salt did not take more than a thousandth part, while from the wages of labour it cut off a twenty-sixth. The right hon. gentleman had asked, why, when this impost was borne so long, it was now objected to, adding that it was not, more intolerable now than for some time past? The fact was not as he had stated. The tax was more oppressive now than formerly, as other taxes had increased, while the ability of the people to pay them had not increased in proportion. The right hon. gentleman ought to have known, that the wages of labour had not risen according to the price of the taxed articles of consumption, and that they were regulated, not so much by the necessities of life, as by the demand for labour. It had been said,
[1490l.l.s.l.1489Mr. Curwen
1503 said, that parliament
1503Mr. Leslie Foster
 said, that his resolution gave the alternative of a reduction or a repeal.Dr. Phillimore
1485l.[14841483l. said, he conceived that the resolutions just read would furnish the best apology for his obtruding himself on the attention of the House. They had heard that nothing short of the state of the finances prevented the committee appointed to examine into this question recommending the immediate repeal of these duties. The income of the country within the last year was increased 3,000,0001485l.[14841483l.Dr. Phillimore
[1488d.s.d.l.1487[1486 could not perceive the advantage of passing a resolution, which, without repealing a tax, should cause the people to be dissatisfied with it. Impolitic as the measure might appear, one thing was certain—that in every state in Europe there was a tax on salt, and there was no reason to believe that in any of them it
[1488d.s.d.l.1487[1486Mr. Wallace
 said, that when he considered the state of the revenue, which was so far from overflowing, that the sinking fund, to which the faith of the country had been so often pledged, might almost be said to exist only in name, combined with the difficulty of laying on any new tax in lieu of the duty on salt, he felt it impossible to vote for the motion.Mr. Alderman Heygate
1501[1500**1499[14981497[14961495 said, that this was a case of the very first importance; it affected the fame and character of a judge of the land; and there was no class or description of public functionaries, in whose uprightness of conduct the interests of the Crown, and the safety and liberties of the people, were so deeply concerned, as in that of those who filled the judicial bench. This principle, in good and former times, had been powerfully felt, and amply provided for. By the 12th and 13th Will 3rd., the judges are rendered independent of the
1501[1500**1499[14981497[14961495Sir G. Hill
 said, that at the recent assizes in Donnegal, there were no less than 300 town-lands fines trials; In the late presentments of the grand jury, application was made for a certain sum of money, for the enlargement of the county gaols, which had became necessary, in consequence of the numbers confined from inability to pay the fines.Lord Mount-Charles
[15141513 said, that though he had been the person whose duty it was to propose the re-enactment of the law which had been bold up to censure, he hoped the House would do him the justice
[15141513Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 said, the diminution of illicit distillation in the two first years, after the passing of the law, was to be attributed to the dearness of corn and turf. The present year, a year of ordinary supply, was the best test of its merits. Yet in Mayo, at the last assizes, there were eighty convictions for illicit distillation; Sligo was nearly as bad, and in the county he represented, there were many. He strongly reprobated the law, and trusted the English and Scotch representatives would not suffer the Irish gentlemen to be robbed by such a law.Mr. French
 allowed that the law might be accompanied with much hardship; but there was a question, whether it was not a lesser evil than the system it had (with the exception of two counties) succeeded in crushing. He feared lest the House should suffer itself to be induced by its feelings to take a step, of which, on cooler reflexion, it might repent. In 1810, this law was suspended; in 1812, repealed; but, in 1813, re-enacted, with only seven dissenting voices. It was re-enacted, after an examination of several Irish members before a committee of the House, and now they were called upon to repeal it without inquiry. The House should be cautious of doing so, as they might be under the necessity of re-enacting it again with accumulated disadvantages. He did not shut his eyes to the evils of the present system, but he feared the consequences of resorting to any other, and, above all things, he feared the dangers resulting from a perpetual vacillation, which was in itself one of the greatest misfortunes that could be inflicted in a country.Mr. Peel
 said, that the system of still fines was injurious to morals, and a great hardship to an innocent population. He would admit that the law had great effect in suppressing illicit distillation, but so must any measure of unexampled cruelty. It was not his opinion, however, that it ought to be done away at once; the best course to pursue would be, the adoption of some concurrent remedial system; perhaps the lowering of the duty on spirits, and the encouragement of small stills throughout the country.Colonel Barry
1515 was of opinion, that it would be wise in the House to acquiesce in the suggestion of his hon. friend who spoke last. At the
1515The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed the sincere gratification he felt at the prospect which was now held out of amending the law in Ireland. He trusted, that the labours of the committee, aided by the candour and good sense of his majesty's government, would bring this question to that issue to which it must be the wish of every friend of peace and good order it should speedily arrive.Mr. Chichester
[1516 defended the chancellor of the Exchequer against the charge of inconsistency. In agreeing to the appointment of a committee, he had not pledged himself to the adoption or abandonment of any measure, but had merely assented to the propriety of referring the present system of laws to the consideration
[1516Lord Castlereagh
[15081507l.l.l.l.l.[1506mala prahibita:mala in se;Nemotestis esse debet in propria causa;1505venuel.l.l. said, that the law which imposed fines upon town lands was of such an odious nature, that he was urged by a sense of public duty to exert his utmost endeavours to procure its repeal. In what he had to urge he meant to cast no reflections upon the excise board, which had shown as much lenity and forbearance as possible, but the complaints out of doors against the act had of late been loud and general. A committee was at present employed in diminishing the penalties of the Statutes its England; but in Ireland, it should seem as if they had been anxious to increase them. In Eng land, the object was, to decrease the criminals; in Ireland to increase them. In England the remission of punishment had augmented crime; but in Ireland, the uniform execution of the sentence had produced exactly a similar effect. He trusted, therefore, that this appeal to parliament against the act of 1814, which was itself a revival of a former law, would not be made in vain. That act imposed a fine of 20[15081507l.l.l.l.l.[1506mala prahibita:mala in se;Nemotestis esse debet in propria causa;1505venuel.l.l.Mr. Dawson
 in pursuance of his notice, moved, "That this House do resolve itself into a committee of the whole House upon the Laws relating to Distillation in Ireland."General Hart,
 participated in the gratification which the result of this motion was so well calculated to diffuse. On the subject of illicit distillation, all he should say was, that he had nothing so much at heart as its utter abolition; and it was because he was its greatest enemy, that he was the advocate for an alteration in the present system, which tended so much to its encouragement.General Hart
pro tanto,[15241523[15221521[15201519[1518 said, that he rose, in discharge of an awful duty, to present the humble petition of a very considerable body of his majesty's subjects, Roman Catholics of great Britain, praying to be relieved from certain grievous civil disabilities under which they now labour. The petition was signed by upwards of 10,300 persons, among whom were many of the representatives of the most ancient and noblest families of the land, at the head of which distinguished list stood the name of his grace the duke of Norfolk, earl marshal of England, and, by birth, the first subject in the realm. And, said the noble lord, in contenting myself for the present with moving, that this petition be now laid upon your table, it is not my intention to detain you by inquiring what particular mode or measure of relief it may hereafter appear desirable or practicable for the House to adopt, still less shall I enter into a detail of the peculiar state of the Roman Catholics of this country, a topic, on which, from the many and full discussions it has received, not only in this House, but through every channel of public information out of doors, the minds of gentlemen may be expected to be already very adequately prepared. At the same time, the tone and temper of the petition itself forbids our considering it as in any way prescribing the means, or even the extent, of that relief to which I trust that this House will be of opinion that they have a just and a peculiar claim. The petition is expressed in nearly the same terms, and embraces precisely the same objects, as when, in those able hands to which, for years, it was entrusted, it obtained, even whilst it failed of success, general sympathy and applause from its unvaried good feeling, discretion, and modesty Hear, hear!]. But connected as it now is with the memory of those great and good men, who used to support its prayer with all that their eloquence and their authority, and their character, could give to its support, while I reflect, certainly with unaffected dismay, upon how in-
pro tanto,[15241523[15221521[15201519[1518Lord Nugent
 animadverted, in a strain of peculiar point and animation, upon the conduct of ministers on this occasion, who had conceded to the opponents of excise pillage in Ireland, only because they felt they could not resist with effect; who had, in fact, only struck, because they knew they would be beaten. Their disposition at the outset could not be mistaken, from the tone and terms of their known adherents; and their reason for yielding afterwards was equally evident. Adverting to the speech of the chancellor of the exchequer, he protested against the language of that right hon. gentleman, who seemed to think that revenue was the first duty of a government. But such language was quite consistent with the conduct and creed of a gentleman, who was the steady patron of lotteries.Mr. Bennet
l.l.l.l.[1510l.l.1509l.l. wished to call the attention of the House to a consideration of the facts in this case; and if upon a fair review of them, an alteration in the mode of collecting the revenue on spirits in Ireland should be deemed necessary, he would lend his cordial assistance to the undertaking. The question was important in every respect, and it was right that the House should be aware that in its decision depended one-fourth of the Irish revenue. In the last year the amount of this branch of it was 1,300,000l.l.l.l.[1510l.l.1509l.l.Mr. Leslie Foster
[1512 said, that in 1810, when he held the office of Irish secretary, he found the fine system in full operation. On a representation of the horrors and crimes committed under this system, and of its inutility to prevent illicit distillation, the then chancellor of the exchequer and himself investigated the subject, and they agreed to remit some of the fines, and to suspend the operation of the act. His hon. friend had said, that the small still system had been in full operation in Ireland in 1810, 1811 and 1812. The fact was, that the fine system was only suspended in 1810. His friend, the chancellor of the exchequer, who remained in office after he himself had gone out, did not encourage small stills—and in the session of 1812 he had brought in a bill, framed with the greatest care, the effect of which he hoped would be to prevent the necessity of recurring to the horrid system offices. But at the time this bill was brought in, a circumstance took place which changed the whole question; the distillation from grain was then suspended. The fine of the town lands system was only suspended, and not repealed, and the dis-
[1512Mr. Wellesley Pole
1511 trusted it was unnecessary to say, after all the House had heard, that the present system of law was most severe, unjust, and unwise. He hoped the House would agree with him in thinking, that the time had now arrived for getting rid of that system altogether, for surely no case had been made out to justify the law. The hon. gentleman (Mr. Foster) had stated that the system of small distilleries had been tried, and failed—he (Sir H. Parnell) was satisfied that that statement was not correct— every gentleman who had attended to the subject knew that the small stills had never had a fair trial—they were impeded and discouraged in many ways; indeed it was impossible that they could have existed under the regulations that bad been made—the interests of the small proprietors were always obliged to give way to those of the proprietors of large distilleries; but, above all, they laboured under the power the commissioners had of withholding licences, instead of giving every man a fair opportunity of employing his capital and his industry in the trade. The establishment of small stills would
1511Sir Henry Parnell
 thought, that of all the courses pursued by the ministers of the Crown, the present was the most extraordinary. He would ask the minister, if he came into the House with an opinion made up, and, if so, why he had altered it? He would ask him, if his opinion was originally the same as he had now-expressed, why did those with whom he acted promulgate a different opinion? In this, as in other questions of importance, was the country to witness the differences of ministers amongst themselves? Feeling that the morals of the people would be injured by a departure from the present system, he should not hesitate to say so. If he could be persuaded of the contrary, no advantages of revenue could induce him for a moment to compromise the more important question of morals. If they resolved to try the other system, he hoped that, with the encouragement of small stills, they would also give encouragement to breweries, that the people might be induced to adopt that wholesome beverage, instead of the maddening spirit to which, they were accustomed.Sir John Newport
 presented a petition from the county of Devon against the claims of the Roman Catholics. He said, he concurred fully with the petitioners in the opinion, that any farther concessions to the Roman Catholics would be dangerous to the Protestant ascendancy. The hon. member presented a similar petition from Exeter.Mr. Bastard
32 rose not to detract from the weight of respectability which attached to the character of the individuals who signed the petition from the county of Devon. There were, however, some circumstances connected with that petition with which he felt it his duty to make the House acquainted. How long the county meeting where the petition originated had been in contemplation, it was impossible
32Lord Ebrington
 did not mean to deny the respectability of the individuals who signed the petition from Exeter, but he should observe, that the names affixed to a petition from the same place in favour of the Roman Catholic claims, which he should presently present, were not less respectable. He fully agreed with the latter petitioners, that it was unjust and impolitic to deprive any body of men of their civil rights in consequence of their religious opinions. Instead of thinking that any danger would arise to the church or state from the repeal of the laws affecting the Roman Catholics, he thought it would add considerably to the strength of the country. For those of his constituents who thought otherwise he had a high respect; but he differed from them very much. There was, in fact, a great difference of opinion on the subject in every part of the country, and this was a reason why every member should come to the discussion of the question with an unbiassed mind, and unfettered judgment.Mr. Courtenay
 presented a petition from the archdeacon, clergy, and laity of Colchester, against any farther concessions to the Roman Catholics.Mr. Houblon
 said, that he differed very widely from those of his constituents who had signed the petitions against the claims of the Roman Catholics. This he regretted, as he respected them highly; but he had the satisfaction to think, that he agreed with some of the most enlightened statesmen that ever graced this country. He would not yield to any man in attachment to the constitution; he hated what was once known under the name of popery as much as any man; he regretted that such an ascendancy should have been gained over a great portion of Europe as once existed; but with these feelings strong in his mind, he could not subscribe to the principle which would visit upon the children the sins o their ancestors.Mr. Western
 contended, that he had been completely misunderstood, if not misrepresented. He did not mean that their petitions should be excluded from that House; his objection went to their addressing the House upon a subject of this delicacy in their corporate capacity. Would it be judicious to encourage applications respecting grievances from various classes of men in their corporate capacity? For instance, would it be for the interest of the independence of that House, that there should be presented a petition from the army as a body, upon the subject of its grievances?Mr. Western
 said, there was an evident misapprehension existing. The clergy had, he said, petitioned against the claims, under the impression that the interests of the Protestant church were in danger; they considered that a question of religion, which he regarded as one of great civil policy, and certainly they had a right to petition in a collective, as well as in an individual capacity; but it perhaps would have been advisable to have abstained from taking so active a part as they had taken upon the occasion.Mr. Plunkett
4 rose to express his doubt
4Mr. Western
 said, it was quite impossible for him to hear such doctrine, without entering his most solemn protest against it. Was it possible for any man in that House to support the doctrine of the hon. member, that it was unconstitutional for the clergy to approach that House as petitioners? Where did the hon. member learn this doctrine? In what books had he read it? He was surprised to hear such sentiments from that side of the House (though he did not mean to assume that any one but the hon. member held such opinions), which on every occasion professed to wish for the utmost freedom of discussion. How could any man say that the clergy had not a right to petition that House? What! was it not enough that they were excluded from a seat in it? Were they now to be excluded from approaching it with petitions couched in the most respectful terms? From the warmest friends of the Roman Catholics he had never before heard the right of the clergy to come forward denied. What, he would ask, was to preclude them from coming forward as a body? Did not the House every day receive petitions from individuals in their corporate character? What, he could wish to know, was there in the law or the constitution of the county to preclude the clergy from coming forward in whatever way they pleased?Mr. Peel
*2322****212019Regium Exequatur181716151413humbug121110987** presented eight Roman Catholic and five Protestant petitions, in favour of the Roman Catholic claims; after which, he rose and said:—2322****212019Regium Exequatur181716151413humbug121110987**Mr. Gratton
equivalent.7473727170696867 rose and said:—Feeling as warmly, and as strongly, as I do upon the present question, I was most anxious at the first opportunity to request, for a short time, the indulgence of the House. I have not the arrogant presumption to suppose, that I could add any weight or authority to that which has been urged by the right hon. gentleman who originated this motion, but I trust that I shall at least do no harm to that cause, whose interests I have much at heart, if I show, by my zeal, in standing forward thus early in defence of this question, that amongst those most unconnected with that right hon. gentleman,—the youngest and the humblest—there is blended with a distant and respectful admiration of his talents, an eager and close emulation of his enthusiasm. Admiring, as I did, the new and brilliant light in which this question was placed by my hon. friend who seconded the motion, I shall, indeed, rejoice if he has prevailed upon any one otherwise hostile to the question, to vote for the committee; for I am convinced, that in obtaining a fair and patient investigation of the case, we should sap the
equivalent.7473727170696867Lord Normanby
787776 begged the attention of the House, while he offered a few observations on the question before it: they were those of a well-meaning, and he should hope an independent man; and he trusted, that, as such, they would not be without their effect. He would state, in as short a compass as possible, the reasons why he should vote for the motion; and he would do so, not because he thought the question so important to the Roman Catholics as a body, as to the general interests of the country at large. It was, no doubt, important to the country to which he belonged; but it was also highly important and interesting to England. What could be a more important subject than to consider, that there was a large portion of her subjects whom, after presiding over for such a length of time, she had not succeeded in making better? The question was of importance to Ireland, for it
787776Mr. Becher
2Majority against the Motion
2Majority against the Motion243Noes
243Noes241Ayes
241Ayes
2Majority against the Motion
2Majority against the Motion243Noes
243Noes241Ayes
241Ayes79 was against farther concession, as it tended to weaken the stability of the Protestant establishment.2Majority against the Motion
2Majority against the Motion243Noes
243Noes241Ayes
241Ayes
2Majority against the Motion
2Majority against the Motion243Noes
243Noes241Ayes
241Ayes79Lord Lowther
75 opposed the motion, and maintained that there was no modification in the Roman Catholic religion which could justify an extension of political privilege to its professors in this country. The principle which he advocated was supported by the practice of all the Catholic powers of Europe. They saw the encroaching influence against which they
75Mr. Brownlow
5655***civilcivilPerhaps54535251504948***To please the fools, and puzzle all the wise:Some truth there was, but dash'd and brew'd with lies,47rationale,4645444342414039habes confitentem.383736353433323130292827present262524*** spoke to the following effect:5655***civilcivilPerhaps54535251504948***To please the fools, and puzzle all the wise:Some truth there was, but dash'd and brew'd with lies,47rationale,4645444342414039habes confitentem.383736353433323130292827present262524***Mr. Croker
666564s.llslvoting in counties onlygrand and petit juries,magistrates,law,63626160595857 said, that if the arguments of his right hon. friend should not completely gratify the Roman Catholics of Ireland, it would at least have the effect of astonishing them. It would discover to them the amazing secret, hitherto unsuspected by any human being,
666564s.llslvoting in counties onlygrand and petit juries,magistrates,law,63626160595857Mr. Leslie Foster
5 was extremely happy to have heard from the right hon. gentleman sentiments so perfectly in accordance with his own, but which had borrowed an additional charm from the animated language in which those sentiments had been clothed. He could not sufficiently mark his dissatisfaction with, or rather abhorrence of, the doctrines laid down by the hon. member for Essex. Nothing could be more unconstitutional, as well as illiberal; for if there was one body whose re-presentations should be entitled to more
5Mr. Methuen
 said, he had heard it reported that it was his intention to give a vote upon the question at variance with his former opinions. Ever since he had taken a seat in that House he had always joined the Protestant side, and should do so upon the present occasion, unless he heard arguments much stronger than those in general use, to show the propriety of granting the Catholics that for which they petitioned. He, at the same time, wished it to be understood, that if he thought the Catholics were not protected in their property and religion in the fullest manner, he should be the first to propose securities for their protection.Mr. Newman
 presented a petition from the dean and chapter of Peterborough against the claims of the Catholics.Mr. Cartwright
6 said, he had a petition to present against the claims of the Roman Catholics, which did not yield in respectability to any that had been brought before parliament on that subject. It was from as independent a body of constituents as any that returned a member to that House. It was from the freemen,
6Sir George Hill
 contended, that the best answer to those who asserted that the people of the metropolis were adverse to those claims, was to be found in the fact, that no anti-catholic ground of preference was acknowledged by the electors of London, Westminster or Southwark, during the late elections. On former discussions of this question, when the subject was not so fully understood, petitions signed by 68,000 persons were laid on the table of that House, against concessions to the Catholics. Not a single petition from that great and enlightened body was on the present occasion submitted to parliament. Indeed, it was preposterous to think that after this country had restored or subsidized all the Popish powers of Europe—after we made such struggles for their establishment—that we should turn round on our own countrymen, who co-operated in all our exertions, partook of all our sacrifices, and who contributed to the renown and glory of our arms, and deny them the participation of those constitutional securities which they so patriotically defended and helped to preserve.Sir R. Wilson
 said, he should certainly not coincide with the observations of his hon. friend, the member for Essex, if he thought they were directed against the reception of petitions from clergymen as individuals; although he had a doubt, whether or not their petitions, as a body, ought to be received. Although the House might receive a petition from an individual officer, if they were to allow a petition to be presented to them by the 1st regiment of Guards, they might as well abdicate their functions at once. The petitioners called themselves members of the church. The whole community were just as much members of the church. The petitioners were, in fact, the servants of the church.Lord Milton
90l.ll.l. said, he was astonished that any man in the present state of the country could seriously propose to abandon a sum of nearly 300,00090l.ll.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
101100mutatis mutandis,pro rata99l. thought, the question had been taken up on most unfair grounds, and treated in a manner quite foreign to the subject. The object of this motion was, to deprive government of 300,000101100mutatis mutandis,pro rata99l.Mr. Canning
 declared, that after all he had heard, and anxious as he was to support the finances of the country, he could not give his vote in favour of a tax, which added to the revenue only in proportion as it spread immorality and crime amongst the people. Amongst the lower orders, the spirit of gambling sometimes led to robbery, and in some cases to suicide. It destroyed the only source of a poor man's character and happiness. In the present situation of the county, he was ready to support the continuance and imposition of any taxes which, without corrupting the morals, might be necessary to enable the government to meet the difficulties with which it had to contend. But the right hon. gentleman's comparison of this mode of raising money to the duties on spirits, appeared extraordinary when proceeding from a person of his talents and acuteness of mind. The lottery was not so much a tax as an invitation to crime; the tax on spirits had, in fact, an opposite tendency, and served to discourage the abuse of them. With regard to the observation, that lotteries were resorted to in other countries, it might be said, that so were expedients, at which it was impossible for Englishmen not to be shocked. Both at Paris and Spa considerable revenue was derived to the state from licensed gambling tables: but this system, bad as it was, appeared to him less disgraceful and pernicious than that of our own lottery, because it affected only the higher orders, whilst the lottery operated chiefly on the lower.Mr. Wodehouse
102 wished to offer but a very few observations, after the able manner in which the subject had been discussed by several of his hon. friends. He found it impossible to sit silent on hearing the doctrine avowed by his right hon. friend, and finding what the ground was on which the lottery was defended by his majesty's ministers. It was not denied—that it produced crime, and that by such production it contributed to the revenue. He admired the talents of his right hon. friend, if he would allow him so to call him, and he knew it must be foreign to his sentiments to overlook the eternal distinction between right and wrong; but the truth was, that the whole of this argument resolved itself into a question of moral feel-
102Mr. Plunkett
103 thought he had some right to complain of the mode in which the hon. and learned gentleman had treated the argument of his right hon. friend, whose observations must be fresh in the recollection of the House. It was quite a misconception to suppose that his right hon. friend had defended the lottery, on the principle of its being productive of crime, and that its mere advantage to the revenue was notwithstanding a sufficient justification of its continuance. AH that had been urged by his right hon. friend was, that evils might grow out of the lottery as well as from the use of spirituous liquors, which when taken in moderate quantity might conduce to health. In Ireland spirits had been found extremely beneficial in the fever which had lately prevailed; but when an indulgence in them was pushed to excess, and became connected with perjury, conspiracy, and other offences attendant on illicit distillation, what would otherwise be a wholesome beverage, or innocent recreation, was changed into a source of mischief. Gambling was no doubt not a thing to be approved, but it afforded a resource which, all nations had adopted, and the adoption
103Lord Castlereagh
l.97 considered it very extraordinary that the chancellor of the exchequer should have talked of the suppression of little-goes, when his own statement had shown a large increase of them during the last three years. He was prepared to show, on the contrary, that little-goes were encouraged in consequence of lotteries. The worthy alderman proceed-
l.97Mr. Alderman Wood
105 said, that although a residence of five and twenty years on the continent might, in some degree, have affected his fluency, his sentiments on the subject of lotteries was perfectly unaltered. He recollected being asked by certain foreigners, in the year 1795, what price the public, in this country, paid for the lottery, and what benefit they were entitled to reap from it? On calculating, he found, that the lottery in England cost the public about one-third. He then looked to the Genoese lottery, which was introduced into France, and on which Mr. Professor Bertram, at Geneva, had written a very curious treatise. That lottery consisted of 90 numbers, of which
105Mr. Colclough
 supported the motion, and pointed out the evils which arose from the drawings of the lottery so often in the year. He quoted the resolutions of a society to which many of the ministers belonged, deprecating the lottery; and observed, that they were thus condemning, as individuals, the law which they came to support by their votes.Mr. Ricardo
104l. said, the House he hoped, would recollect, that it was conceded by ministers that they had no other way of raising the sum of 250,000104l.Mr. F. Douglas
 agreed with the hon. mover in thinking that a state lottery was attended with the worst effects on the morals of the people; and that it held out a temptation to gambling. He concluded with expressing his determination to support the motion.Mr. Agar Ellis
A laugh!l.106l.l.l. said, he would vote for this motion, not because it was brought forward by his hon. friend, or by any person who was in the habit of thinking as he did on political subjects; but deliberately, from the best consideration he could give the subject, connecting the morals of the country with its financial arrangements. He conceived so trifling a sum as 250,000A laugh!l.106l.l.l.Mr. Tierney
l.l.95l.94l.9392l.l.91 observed, that the chancellor of the exchequer had by no means replied to the charges advanced against the lottery. The right hon. gentleman did not venture to assert that it was a wise and virtuous system; but merely that it was not so deplorably vicious as it had been represented by his hon. friend. There might be differences of opinion as to the extent of the evil; but that the lottery was an evil, that it produced crime and diminished industry, was admitted by the right hon. gentleman; for he had not attempted to deny it. The right hon. gentleman had begun his address by saying that he would speak first as to the revenue, next as to the morality of that tax; but, as if a certain fatality hung over every assurance upon that subject, as if no hope was to be realized and no promise to be performed, to which the lottery gives birth, the right hon. gentleman had been abundantly copious in proving its productiveness, which no man disputed—silent, however, in defending its moral consequences, which every man, impeached. That silence on this material part of the subject must be construed into a confession of the truth of what had been advanced on the other side. The question might now, therefore, be brought to a short issue. All were agreed as to the
l.l.95l.94l.9392l.l.91Mr. Fowell Buxton
l.l. said, that under the present plan of the lottery there were only 12 days of drawing, however they might be divided; but under the old plan there were 40 days of drawing in London, besides another lottery with 40 days drawing in Dublin, and in each place insurances were effected on the lottery in the other. The evil of these insurances was, as had been proved to a committee of the House, fifty-fold as great as those which arose out of the lottery itself, and it was on that account that the present system was adopted. He argued, that the rage for gambling was not created by the lottery, but would, if the lottery were abolished, break out in some other direction; that the evils of smuggling were as great as those of the lottery, and might also be remedied by abolishing all taxes. It was easy to say, add 250,000l.l.Mr. Huskisson
107 replied. He said, it would be impertinent in him to attempt to add any thing to the forcible arguments which the House had heard against the lottery. He had not appealed to the virtue of the right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer, or founded his argument on his character as a man of piety. He had purposely abstained from such appeal,
107Mr. Lyttelton
894. "That this House, therefore, will no longer authorize the establishment of
893. "That the said Lotteries have given rise to other systems of Gambling, which have been but partially repressed by laws, whose provisions are extremely arbitrary, and their enforcements liable to the greatest abuse:2. "That such a spirit, manifestly weakening the habits of industry, must diminish the permanent sources of the public revenue:1. "That by the Establishment of State Lotteries, a spirit of Gambling, injurious in the highest degree to the morals of the people, is encouraged and provoked:
894. "That this House, therefore, will no longer authorize the establishment of
893. "That the said Lotteries have given rise to other systems of Gambling, which have been but partially repressed by laws, whose provisions are extremely arbitrary, and their enforcements liable to the greatest abuse:2. "That such a spirit, manifestly weakening the habits of industry, must diminish the permanent sources of the public revenue:1. "That by the Establishment of State Lotteries, a spirit of Gambling, injurious in the highest degree to the morals of the people, is encouraged and provoked:88l.;l.l.,bona fidel.l.l.l.87l.86l.l.l.85l.l.s.l.s;l.s.,l.84alibi,8382argumentum ad hominem8180 said, that in bring-
894. "That this House, therefore, will no longer authorize the establishment of
893. "That the said Lotteries have given rise to other systems of Gambling, which have been but partially repressed by laws, whose provisions are extremely arbitrary, and their enforcements liable to the greatest abuse:2. "That such a spirit, manifestly weakening the habits of industry, must diminish the permanent sources of the public revenue:1. "That by the Establishment of State Lotteries, a spirit of Gambling, injurious in the highest degree to the morals of the people, is encouraged and provoked:
894. "That this House, therefore, will no longer authorize the establishment of
893. "That the said Lotteries have given rise to other systems of Gambling, which have been but partially repressed by laws, whose provisions are extremely arbitrary, and their enforcements liable to the greatest abuse:2. "That such a spirit, manifestly weakening the habits of industry, must diminish the permanent sources of the public revenue:1. "That by the Establishment of State Lotteries, a spirit of Gambling, injurious in the highest degree to the morals of the people, is encouraged and provoked:88l.;l.l.,bona fidel.l.l.l.87l.86l.l.l.85l.l.s.l.s;l.s.,l.84alibi,8382argumentum ad hominem8180Mr. Lyttelton
l.l.;98 could not help congratulating the House on finding that no gentleman on the other side, save the chancellor of the exchequer, had attempted to stand up in support of the lottery system. He considered this system as a fraud which was carried on to the injury of the country, and which ought to be put an end to as soon as possible. When he saw his hon. friend (Mr. Buxton) upon his legs, he really thought (not having been in the House at the opening of the discussion) that the question related to the state or gaols; but when he had listened a little to his hon. friend, he found that
l.l.;98Mr. Wilberforce
 deprecated in strong terms the encouragement of lotteries, as giving rise to a spirit of gambling, and tending to demoralize the lower classes of society. They were condemned as a nuisance by an act of king William, and he doubted, therefore, whether their antiquity could be very great. He strenuously supported the resolution.Mr. W. Williams
l.96 thought the chancellor of the exchequer could have no difficulty in giving up this tax, and substituting some other in its stead; in the mean time, if the money remained in the people's pockets, it was as much as was necessary according to the good old maxim of queen Elizabeth, who considered it, when there, as secure as if it were in her own keeping. The right hon. gentleman would only have to exercise a little of his accustomed ingenuity in devising new plans. The right hon. gentleman had defended the establishment of a large lottery as necessary to catch small lotteries; he had often heard the maxim, "set a thief to catch a thief;" and improving upon this maxim, the right hon. gentleman, thought the only way to catch little-goes was, to establish great-goes. The chancellor of the exchequer had a great quantity of public and private integrity; he was in the possession of such a degree of character as would allow him to change his mind without being ridiculed. His character stood high for integrity in the largest sense of the word. The perceiving in such a character, a blot like that of encouraging gambling and immorality struck one with a harsh and disagreeable surprise. It was something like a moral tooth-ach. It was a surprise like that felt by the readers of a well-known novel of Fielding, his Amelia, who, after taking a warm
l.96Mr. William Parnell
 said, that the House were not, perhaps, aware that an act had existed upwards of forty years in Ireland, which had been acted on, and had become a part of the system of equity in that country, enabling persons to invest money in trade without becoming liable to the operation of the bankrupt laws. This was called an anonymous partnership in Ireland. These anonymuus partners, however, did not engage in the trade themselves, and had no control over it, but were mere lenders of money. But by the bill of the worthy alderman, the persons who advanced money might have the substantial control of the trade. Now he held this to be a dangerous principle. Persons might appoint an acting partner entirely under their control, and might, with little or no capital, have the entire benefit of the trade, with a limited responsibility to the public. This was directly contrary to an established principle of mercantile law. It was obvious, that under this bill men of straw would be appointed as acting partners, and the persons who had the entire control and direction of the trade would only be liable to the extent of the sums advanced by them. If an amendment of the existing law were only proposed, he should be heartily glad to accede to it; but the bill would go to repeal the existing law on the subject.Mr. Plunkett
126 observed, that the principle of this bill was repugnant to the general principles of commercial law in this country. Ireland had separate laws on this subject, which were well understood, and which were not without their advantage in a country deficient in capital. In most countries on the continent, persons were allowed to vest sums in trade on a similar principle; but a system of this kind required to be acted on with great caution. Persons might acquire a false credit by a connexion of this nature with capitalists, the extent of whose liability might not be known to the public. In point of fact, this was an unlimited allowance of small joint stock companies; companies of such a description were viewed with great jealousy in this country. This jealousy, however, might be carried too far. He thought the bill might be productive of
126The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 entered into a history of the law in Ireland, respecting anonymous partnerships. It was drawn up, he said, by one of the ablest men of Ireland, and was passed in the Irish parliament in 1781. The idea of it was taken from a French law-book. When sent over to England; it was submitted to the attorney and solicitor-general of that day, and by their advice, rejected as contrary to the practice of this island. On a remonstrance from Ireland, that the bill was necessary for the encouragement of the manufactures of Ireland, it came back and was passed into a law, and had been productive of great benefit. He was sorry however to say, that there was as much necessity now for capital for encouraging manufactures in Ireland, as there was then. He should recommend to the worthy alderman to bring in a bill for amending the existing law, rather than to repeal it.Mr. Foster
 said, the bill of the worthy alderman was well deserving of the consideration of every Irishman. He was not sure that he understood his right hon. friend correctly. It seemed to him that his principal objection was, to a principle which already existed. By the existing law, dormant partners might invest money to any amount, derive a share of the profits, and yet not be liable beyond the sums invested by them.Mr. Leslie Foster
 said, his objection was, to the effective control which this bill would give to sleeping partners, without subjecting them to any losses.Mr. Plunkett
 acknowledged, that the principle of the bill would give this control; but then half the profits would remain to be added to the capital. Thus, if the profits were 10 per cent. 5 per cent could only be drawn by the partners.Mr. Alderman Wood
 thought it would be better to repeal the former act, and to consolidate its provisions in the present, the former being an act of the Irish parliament. It would be better that all the regulations on the subject should be incorporated into one act of the imperial parliament.Sir J. Newport
s.135l.l.l.l.l.134 observed, that if the ground for repealing this tax was so clear, and its necessity so urgent, as was stated by the hon. member, there could be no necessity for a committee upon it; the best way would have been to bring in a bill at once to that effect. When this subject was before the House last year, he thought he-had gone far enough to prevent the necessity of the present motion. A considerable reduction was then made in this tax; not from a feeling that its continuance was a breach of faith to Ireland; but because the situation of that country was such as to make it necessary. He was fully aware, that the good faith of government ought to be tenaciously preserved, and that the amount of the tax in question ought not to be put in competition with it.—But he was happy to find, that the entry of this
s.135l.l.l.l.l.134The Chancellor of the Exchequer
142l.l.l.141l.140139 said, he considered it a mistake to suppose that the members of the united parliament were not disposed to attend to the concerns of the sister kingdom. He thought that the interests of Ireland were listened to by British members with the kindest attention. It was to the representatives of England, that in this case he should chiefly address himself; and in the first, place, he should endeavour to show, that
142l.l.l.141l.140139Mr. Plunkett
l.l.143 thought the right hon. gentleman who had last spoken, had deviated from his usual candour, in representing that the chancellor of the exchequer had acknowledged the continuance of this tax to be a breach of faith. Though he had looked into the case rather with a disposition to find a pledge, he could not persuade himself that it had been given. There was no record of any kind, that Mr. Corry had given any pledge; and if there had been a solemn pledge, was there a probability that it would now be a matter of dispute? In 1800 by chap. 2, 40 George 3rd, the tax was continued, not only for the support of 49,000 men, but for other puposes; and many other taxes were included under the same enactment. By the act of union, all the revenues of Ireland were formed into a consolidated fund, for the payment of the interest of debt and sinking fund, yet there was not a word that this tax should not be continued. The 52nd chap, of 40th of the king contained regulations respecting the collection of the tax. To prevent evasion, houses had been originally taxed according to the number of their windows. By this act, the houses were to be rated according to this enumeration for three years, if the war so long should continue. That this limitation of time applied to the mode of rating only, and not to the tax itself, was manifested from this; the war did not last three years; the mode of rating ceased; but the tax continued. In 1807 also, this tax (with many others which it was not even pretended parliament was pledged to put and end to), was made permanent; and previously, when Mr. Corry, who had first proposed it, had moved its renewal, he had denied that he had ever given any pledge respecting it, and his assertion was supported by several members of the House. He could not thus find the slightest proof that any particular pledge had been given respecting it. He acknowledged that if he regarded his feelings only, he should go much farther than the right hon. gentleman proposed in the repeal of taxes, but it was to be re-
l.l.143Mr. C. Grant
l.,145144 argued, that as parliament was always found generous in its consideration of the peculiar circumstances of Ireland, it would ill become the advocates of that country to trespass upon
l.,145144Lord Castlereagh
146 ably supported the motion, which, from the language of the noble lord, would, he apprehended, be met by a decided negative. But it was too much, he thought, on the part of the noble lord, to aggravate the mortification of that negative, by the lecture which he had read to the representatives, and to the people of Ireland. The noble lord had endeavoured to show, that Ireland had reason to be satisfied with the conduct of
146Mr. Hutchinson
, of Galway, declared his resolution to resist the motion, notwithstanding the opinion of the great body of his colleagues from Ireland, and the communication which he had received from the capital of the county which he had the honour to represent. But he would act from his own conviction; and in so acting, he had the satisfaction to think that he should return to his country completely sheltered from censure by the universal popularity of the right hon. secretary for Ireland.Mr. Martin
148 said, that the hon. gentleman opposite reminded him of the old man who married two young wives, one of whom pulled all the black hairs from his head, and the other all the white, till at last none at all were left to the old dotard. So it was with the hon. gentleman and the present taxes; they wished to pull one way in the name of morality, another in the name of humanity, and another in the name of philanthropy. If they were allowed to do so, the country would be left without any resources. Morality, humanity, and philanthropy were more flourishing than the revenue. If it were not for the taxes there would have been a revolution, and in that case morality, humanity, and philanthropy, would have been buried under that hideous mass of crime which the civilized world had seen in France. As a friend,
148Mr. Marryat
 spoke in favour of the repeal. The faith of the Irish parliament was pledged to its repeal, and, in his opinion, no financial arrangement could justify a breach of faith.Mr. Forbes
 said, that this tax had not merely increased the typhus, but had also entailed upon posterity a chronic malady called the scrofula. He could assure gentlemen, that this disorder had increased to a ten-fold degree since the institution of the window-tax.Mr. Colclough
117 said, he rose to present six petitions to the House, all intimately connected with the
117Mr. Primrose
 supported the motion, first, because the tax was so unpopular in Ireland, that its receipts were not worth the sacrifice, next because Ireland had not had a proportionate remission of taxation since the arrival of the peace. It would be wise to commute such a tax, when the popular odium was so expressed.Mr. Callaghan
121120 presented a petition, signed by between two and three thousand Licensed Victuallers of London and Westminster; setting forth, "That the houses wherein the petitioners, and other licensed Victuallers carry on their trade, acquire, by means of their being exclusively licensed for that purpose, a degree of value far beyond that of other places of trade which are free for the use and occupation of any person who may choose to carry on business therein; that to enable a licensed victualler to exercise his trade with any fair prospect of success, and any degree of respectability, he must of necessity embark a considerable capital in acquiring a permanent interest in his house, the value and security of which depend solely on the continuance of his licence to retail exciseable commodities; and property to the extent of several millions is invested in houses of this description in that part of the United Kingdom called England; that the obvious intent of the several statutes investing a power in magistrates, and other competent persons, to grant licences to the keepers of public alehouses, victualling houses, &c was, to guard
121120Mr. Bennet
124l.l.maximums.s.123l.l.122 rose for the purpose of moving for leave to bring in a bill for the better regulation of the mode in which licenses are granted to publicans. He said that few questions regarding the interests, and what was of more consequence the morals of the people, were of superior importance to the present: he would not travel through long details which this House had heard over and over again, but would merely state the law as it stood, and the amendment he proposed to introduce. The principal act upon this subject was the 26th Geo. 2nd, c. 35, under which public houses were for
124l.l.maximums.s.123l.l.122Mr. Bennet
147 said, that as on the one hand he should be sorry to abandon the post of strength of his country, so on the other he should be sorry to make an invidious contrast of the state of England with that of Ireland. Such a contrast, might lead to a competition of strength between the two countries, which ought always to be avoided, and still more so alter a marriage had taken place between them, which it was the interest of every loyal patriot to make as indissoluble as possible. The chancellor of the exchequer, in diminishing the window-tax as he had diminished it, had done himself the greatest honour, and his constituents were grateful for the mitigation which he had effected of the burthens which were imposed upon them. The right hon. gentleman had addressed to the churchwardens of the different parishes in Dublin, queries: 1st, as to the number of houses in each parish; 2dly, as to the number of houses inhabited; 3dly, as to the number to be let, occupied or not: and 4thly, as to the number of insolvencies. What did the House think was the answer to these inquiries? He would tell them. In the parish of St. Mark there were 85 houses shut-up, 50 to let, and 120 insolvent. In that of St. Andrew there were 400 houses,
147Mr. Grattan
 stated the grievances felt in Limerick by the oppressive operation of the window tax. He trusted that the wisdom and humanity of the House would suggest some remedy for such an evil, and, give a favourable consideration to the petitions which had poured in from all parts of Ireland on this subject.Mr. Vereker
119l.118 presented a petition from Mr. Barber Beaumont, setting forth, "That the petitioner is suffering a virtual demolition of his property, against which the laws of this country afford no redress, and his case being that of a multitude of other unoffending citizens, he humbly appeals for that protection which loyal subjects may expect from a just government; that the petitioner is ground landlord of upwards of 70 houses at Shepherd's-bush, a village of new houses, chiefly raised through the
119l.118Mr. Hume
 declared, that the shutting up of windows to avoid the payment of this tax, had, by impeding the ventilation of houses, greatly contributed to propagate the infection of the typhus fever in Ireland. The measure originated as a war tax, and ought not to be continued in time of peace.Mr. Carew
 said, that he had attended upon this occasion with the most favourable disposition towards Ireland, to which he thought this country owed a long arrear of kindness and justice, especially for the system pursued respecting her government previous to the union; but still he must declare that he felt it his duty to oppose the motion. He felt as an Englishman the highest regard and obligation towards Ireland, not from her pecuniary supplies for the common object of the empire, but from her contribution of men—from her having furnished the gallant soldiers and the great captain through whom the deliverance of Europe was mainly achieved.Mr. Wilberforce
138l.á fortioril.137136 said, that he had last night presented a petition from Londonderry, praying for a repeal of the tax; and certainly, if any portion of the inhabitants of Ireland were entitled to an alleviation from, or an abolition of this tax, his constituents had that claim, who had, during the prevalence of disease and distress, been foremost in setting a salutary example of providing asylums for the sick and naked, and provision for the hungry and distressed. He regretted that his duty as a representative in parliament, upon a general view of the exigencies and relative interests of the united kingdom, obliged him to support the tax. It seemed, that an opinion strongly prevailed, that Mr. Corry had given, in 1799, a pledge that this tax was to be continued only during the war. It is quite true, that at the period when the tax was first laid on,
138l.á fortioril.137136Sir G. Hill
 said, that though he in 'common with his fellow countrymen did not wish to shrink from the exigencies of the state, still he must condemn the tax as being the origin of disease and distemper in Ireland.Sir N. Colthurst
d.s.l.d.,s.l.d.s.l.d.,s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.133132l.bona fide131130129l.128127, of Dublin, rose and said:—Sir, when I
d.s.l.d.,s.l.d.s.l.d.,s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.133132l.bona fide131130129l.128127Mr. Shaw
l.l. said, the debt of Ireland had been created by her having undertaken to pay a most unreasonable share of the expenses of the empire by the act of union. It was unfair to visit this rash undertaking on the part of Ireland upon her in every debate on her financial situation. The only reasonable argument would be to show, that she had not paid as much as her means enabled her. But could this be proved? Was not the contrary manifest by the failure of all the budgets of all the ministers who had attempted to increase the revenue? It was a fact which should be generally known, that the estimated increase of the revenue to be effected by the several new taxes imposed in Ireland from 1808 to 1817, was rated by the several ministers at 3,500,000l.l.Sir J. Newport
 complained, that the hopes of the people of Ireland were greatly disappointed in the way that this question was met. He referred to the words of the original bill to show, that it was a measure solely intended for a war expenditure. The people of the country never complained during the war of the burthen of this tax, nor was it until they could no longer bear its operation, that their complaints were heard against it. The hon. member contended, that the operation of the law was most unfavourable to the health of the community; and that, from the report of the physicians in Dublin, it was evident the fever had greatly increased, owing to the bad ventillation, so many of the windows being shut up. Where a tax affected the health or industry of a people, nothing but the most painful emergency should cause its enactment or continuance. The right hon. gentleman conceived that he granted a great boon to Ireland last year, when he reduced the tax 25 per cent. But that it was not a boon generally felt was evident from the circumstance, that there-were three or four thousand notices of discontinuance in that year, and, in the three last years, no less than 33,000. The right hon. gentleman also stated, that a great many people in Ireland were not affected by the tax; for instance, the small farmers, and the minor manufacturers. It was true they did not feel the weight of this tax; but if it were to be a permanent measure, it must operate against the improvement of the situation of those persons.Mr. Knox
 presented a petition from the burgh of New Galloway, praying that the House would not adopt the suggestions of those persons who called for an alteration in the constitution of the Scottish burghs, or who demanded a reform in parliament. It appeared to him, that the individuals who called for the burgh reform had some other object in view, or they would have paid more attention to the bill introduced by the lord advocate.Colonel Stewart
 was of opinion, that it was inconsistent with the privileges of the House, to receive such a petition.Lord Castlereagh
 wished not to be understood to have thrown any slur on any body of individuals. What he had stated was, that burgesses in Scotland, whether in the capital or in the provinces, were neither from their education, their habits of life, or their property, more respectable in the abstract, or entitled to greater consideration, than the other inhabitants of the burghs, who were more enlightened by education, and who had greater property at stake. The petitioners complained of his having called them radical reformers. What he had stated, he would state as often as it became his duty to address the House on the subject, namely, that to adopt the proposed alteration in the Scots burghs, would be to overturn the established constitution of those burghs, and to change it fundamentally from the form in which it was fixed by the union.The Lord Advocate
 said, he held in his band a petition from the burgesses of Dunfermline, signed by 952 persons, praying for redress from those grievances so loudly expressed throughout Scotland, arising from the self-election of magistrates. These petitioners declared, that if the bill introduced by the lord advocate passed into a law, it would aggravate the existing abuses, and leave the parties affected without any remedy. The petitioners alleged that they had seen with astonishment, in a report of a speech said to have been made by the lord advocate, a statement in which the burgesses of Scotland were described not as respectable, but the reverse——General Fergusson
 considered the passage so objectionable as to prevent the petition being received. His learned friend was not in his place, but he was confident he had never said or meant any thing derogatory to the great body of the burgesses of the royal burghs.—The petition was withdrawn.Lord Castlereagh
 presented the following Report from the Committee of Secrecy on the Affairs of the Bank:Mr. Peel
 stated, "that he conceived it to be necessary that the Bank of England, in order to be enabled to resume the payment of its notes in specie, should reduce their present amount to the extent of three or four millions forcibly." He explained, "that by the term forcibly, he meant a reduction, not arising from three or four millions less being demanded, but from three or four millions being demanded and refused by the Bank to the public and government. He considered this forced reduction of the issues of the Bank of England to be necessary, in order to restore the rest of the paper in circulation to its ancient value in gold, and the exchanges to par." Being asked, if, "in order to produce the effect which he anticipated from a forcible reduction of the issues of the Bank, it would be necessary that the reduction should be sudden?" he replied, "In my opinion every possible disadvantage and inconvenience to the public would arise from a sudden reduction; I should certainly recommend its being gradual."Mr. Haldimand
 states in his evidence, "That the amount of gold in the country, previous to the restriction, had been estimated by the late lord Liverpool at so millions. Mr. Rose stated it higher; but perhaps if we were to take it at 20 millions, that might be about the amount which was in circulation previous to the restriction act." He adds, "that he thinks he is warranted in saying, that if 20 millions, besides what remained in the Bank, was necessary for the scale of expenditure before the restriction act, it is taking it moderately to contend that as much would be necessary now."Mr. Harman
168dsl167, a gentleman very extensively connected with banks in the county of Somerset, gave evidence to the following effect:—"In the latter end of the year 1816 and beginning of 1817, we had a circulation of coin for some months; it cost us at that period nearly one hundred pounds to transmit the surplus quantity of coin to London, of which four-fifths in value, at least, consisted of gold. We could not get rid of it in the country, our customers preferring our notes. In the spring of 1817, I brought with me to town near 1,000 guineas from one of our banks; on taking them to our London banker, he requested, as a favour, I would not leave them there. They had lately sent so many to the Bank of England, that they did not like to trouble them any more; besides, the Bank only took those which were of full weight."168dsl167Mr. Stuckey
169, a partner in the house of Messrs. Baring, does not consider the whole amount of British capital invested in foreign, including American, funds, to be ten millions; he speaks of capital permanently invested, and does not take into the account that which may have been employed in spe-
169Mr. Holland
172dsldsl171sldsl170 being examined, as to the effect of the contributions which France has paid to foreign countries, upon her exchanges, replied, "Perhaps from one to one and a half per cent."172dsldsl171sldsl170Mr. Rothschild
l12,316,9881818
12,316,98818189,075,9581817
9,075,95818177,839,9241816
7,839,92418168,204,9681815
8,204,9681815££1814
££1814
12,316,9881818
12,316,98818189,075,9581817
9,075,95818177,839,9241816
7,839,92418168,204,9681815
8,204,9681815££1814
££1814176dsl175174173, delivered a paper to the Committee in reference, to the plan of bullion payments; in which he thus expresses his opinion "I can venture to assert, as a practical man of business, that there will be little if any difficulty in carrying it into effect; that it will not unnecessarily cramp circulation; that it will not impede the ordinary measures, either of government or the mercantile community, but that, on the contrary, it will restore order and harmony to the system, and give to the country what all parties who wish its welfare, desire—a safe and efficient standard of value; variable, it is true, in a certain degree, but less variable than any standard which any country has ever yet established."l12,316,9881818
12,316,98818189,075,9581817
9,075,95818177,839,9241816
7,839,92418168,204,9681815
8,204,9681815££1814
££1814
12,316,9881818
12,316,98818189,075,9581817
9,075,95818177,839,9241816
7,839,92418168,204,9681815
8,204,9681815££1814
££1814176dsl175174173Mr. Holland
was 752.in 1817
was 752.in 1817was 940,in 1814
was 940,in 1814
was 752.in 1817
was 752.in 1817was 940,in 1814
was 940,in 18141771,131267732Royal Bank
1,131267732Royal Bank8,1796,7288,773Bank of Scotland
8,1796,7288,773Bank of Scotland1,2659101,400British Linen Company
1,2659101,400British Linen CompanyList Quarter, 1818.Third Quarter, 1816.Last Quarter, 1813.
List Quarter, 1818.Third Quarter, 1816.Last Quarter, 1813.
1,131267732Royal Bank
1,131267732Royal Bank8,1796,7288,773Bank of Scotland
8,1796,7288,773Bank of Scotland1,2659101,400British Linen Company
1,2659101,400British Linen CompanyList Quarter, 1818.Third Quarter, 1816.Last Quarter, 1813.
List Quarter, 1818.Third Quarter, 1816.Last Quarter, 1813. expressed an opinion, that the issue of paper by the country banks might be from 40 to 50 millions; out your Committee are rather led to infer, from the general tenor of the information before them, that the amount of this branch of the paper circulation, throughout Great Britain, has never exceeded from 20 to 25 millions.was 752.in 1817
was 752.in 1817was 940,in 1814
was 940,in 1814
was 752.in 1817
was 752.in 1817was 940,in 1814
was 940,in 18141771,131267732Royal Bank
1,131267732Royal Bank8,1796,7288,773Bank of Scotland
8,1796,7288,773Bank of Scotland1,2659101,400British Linen Company
1,2659101,400British Linen CompanyList Quarter, 1818.Third Quarter, 1816.Last Quarter, 1813.
List Quarter, 1818.Third Quarter, 1816.Last Quarter, 1813.
1,131267732Royal Bank
1,131267732Royal Bank8,1796,7288,773Bank of Scotland
8,1796,7288,773Bank of Scotland1,2659101,400British Linen Company
1,2659101,400British Linen CompanyList Quarter, 1818.Third Quarter, 1816.Last Quarter, 1813.
List Quarter, 1818.Third Quarter, 1816.Last Quarter, 1813.Mr. Lloyd
17817½1819—
17½1819—161818—
161818—121817—
121817—101816March
101816March
17½1819—
17½1819—161818—
161818—121817—
121817—101816March
101816March stated, that the circulation of the country banks was at its highest in 1813 and 1814, but was considerably reduced in 1816, and the beginning of 1817; and being asked, as to the amount outstanding at the latter period, when compared with the former, he answered, "I can hardly say; I should think it was reduced nearly one-half."17817½1819—
17½1819—161818—
161818—121817—
121817—101816March
101816March
17½1819—
17½1819—161818—
161818—121817—
121817—101816March
101816MarchMr. Lloyd
193 said, the question was, whether they would refer the whole of those petitions to a committee, referring, at the same time, the general inquiry, how far it was desirable that the principle of parliamentary reform should be applied to the Scots burghs? It was true that the petitioners did not avow the principle; but there were reasons why they should not avow it, and he was satisfied that a great number of the persons who were most active in procuring the petitions were advocates for parliamentary reform. He had no doubt but that grievances had occurred under the existing system, but not to the extent alleged. The lord advocate had introduced a bill for the purpose of correcting the evils, and the bill so introduced rendered any other pro-
193Lord Binning
, adverting to the observation of an hon. member, that an agreement to any change in the burgh system of Scotland would be a violation of the articles of union, strongly argued against the validity of such a proposition. If such changes were violations of the union, a heavy charge could be brought both against this and the last parliament; for it could be proved that they had violated the union in the case of Penryn, in the case of Barnstaple, in the case of Shoreham, and other places, where the elective franchise had been extended to the neighbouring hundred. The support of the union should be reciprocal between the two countries, and it was as much violated by these late changes in England, as it would be by changes in Scotland, unless it was maintained that abuses should be perpetuated in the one country which might be corrected in the other. It was impossible for one parliament to bind its successor; if this could take place, the union would have been the greatest misfortune. The constitution of this country was only a system of progressive reform. As for what was called parliamentary reform, he had always objected to it, because it began by pulling down, without having any thing to substitute, and because parliament had the power to remedy any abuses that could be proved to exist. The great evil complained of was, the misapplication of the revenues of the burghs, and what the burgesses required was a power to check the misapplication, and in many instances gross profusion, that prevailed. He had not heard any contradiction to the statements of the petitions; and he believed he might say with confidence, that at no time had such statements ever been made without securing parliamentary interference. It was equally necessary that inquiry should take place, whether the evils complained of originated in ignorance or fraud.Mr. Wynn
lll said, he would have given a silent vote on the present question, were it not that assertions had been advanced with respect to the burgh of Aberdeen which he knew to be unfounded. It had been stated that the debts of the burgh of Aberdeen amounted to 230,000lllMr. Forbes
197ad hoc196ad hoc195 expressed himself to be very unwilling to prolong a discussion of which the House seemed to be already weary, but as only one hon. member connected with the representation of England had delivered his sentiments on the subject, he thought it would not be respectful to the Scottish nation if the question were dispatched without a reply having been made to that hon. member by
197ad hoc196ad hoc195Mr. Canning
, in reply, animadverted upon the attempt of the last speaker to misinterpret the language of the petitioners, and to ascribe to them an object which they distinctly disavowed; for those petitioners did not. seek parliamentary reform, as the right hon. gentleman assumed, but merely solicited the establishment of some security: against the prodigal expenditure of their funds.Lord A. Hamilton
186185l184183182181180***179, in rising to bring forward his motion on the subject of the Royal Burghs of Scotland, said, that after the number of petitions which had been
186185l184183182181180***179Lord Archibald Hamilton
152 said, he had several petitions of a similar nature to that just laid on the table, to present, and among others, there were two from the burghs represented by the lord advocate, who
152Lord A. Hamilton
191probi hominesleges burgorum, as a native of Scotland, could not refrain from expressing a few sentiments on this subject. The reasons which had been urged in favour of a committee were, in his mind, very extraordinary; but none was more strange and impolitic than that advanced by the last speaker, which was, that an inquiry should be instituted for the pupose of putting an end to misrepresentations, although the same hon. member seemed to admit that nothing effectual could be done to satisfy the wishes of the petitioners. He commented upon the operation of the 191probi hominesleges burgorumMr. Boswell
189188 said, he was anxious to state why he should support the motion, both because the question affected that peculiar part of the community with which, as a representative, he was most closely connected, and because he wished
189188Mr. Primrose
164 Baring being requested to state, in what manner an attempt to effect the restoration of cash payments within the period of a year, would operate upon the commerce and internal concerns of the empire? replied, "The resumption of cash payments can only be effected by drawing bullion into the country, by a reduction of the issues of the Bank. I cannot think that the Bank could pay in specie, with any expectation of continuing in that state, until there was a considerable portion of specie already in the circulation of the country. I apprehend, that by no process, even if the effects of any sudden reduction of issues were totally disregarded, could the sum necessary for the purpose, be brought into the country, within the period mentioned. I am farther of opinion, that the operation of reduction necessary for the purpose I have mentioned, must always be accompanied with some restraint and inconvenience to every branch of industry in the country; and that if it were forced, with a rapidity at all approaching to what would be required for the payment in the course of a twelvemonth, the injury would be intolerable; the reduction of paper would produce all those effects which arise from the reduction in the amount of money in any country; an effect which I think is well described in Mr. Hume's 'Essay on Money.' The consequences of a contraction or expansion of the amount of money in a country,
164Mr. Alexander
166ll Baring observed, "that it is difficult, indeed impossible, to form any accurate estimate; but his impression is, that with a new and perfect coin, such as the sovereign, which in his opinion would exclude the 1166llMr. Alexander
165, a member of the House, and a merchant principally engaged in trade with the East and West Indies, and occasionally in general trade, gave an opinion, "that the influence which the reduction of the Bank issues produces, is of a secondary nature; that in other times, the alteration of two or three millions in their issues would not have been at all felt; but that in the present state of the trade of the country, after a year of much overtrading, and a great accumulation of foreign goods in the country, and of British goods for British account in Foreign markets, whatever tends to narrow the means of circulation, acts in a much greater degree now, than it would in other times."165Mr. Gladstone
 presented a similar petition from the corporation of tailors at Edinburgh, which he said he should not have offered to the House in the absence of the lord advocate, had he not intimated to the learned lord his intention of doing so. The language of this petition, however, had a marked distinction from that just withdrawn by his gallant friend. It stated that the petitioners "had heard that the respectability of their corporation, as well as of others, had been called in question by a member of the House; but that they did not think it necessary to justify themselves, as they trusted their good conduct and general usefulness were too well known." In another part of the petition, the petitioners said, "they had heard with astonishment and indignation, that they had been charged by a Scotsman, a member of the House, with being radical reformers," &c. They did not state, however, that that charge was made in the House. The House would, however, do what they chose with the petition.Mr. J. P. Grant
150 said, that if he understood the hon. and gallant officer correctly, he had stated that the burgesses of Scotland who had petitioned for an adequate reform of the royal burghs had a different object than that which they professed, otherwise they would have directed their attention to the benefits of the bill now pending in that House. Now, from every information that he had received, the burgesses had given that bill the fullest consideration; and the result of that attention was, that the great body of the burgesses
150Mr. J. P. Grant
192 agreed as to the great importance of the question. In Scotland almost every principal town was a royal burgh, so that the evil of their mal-administration was most extensive in its influence. When grievances were stated to exist in the local administration, and parliament was applied to in consequence of such grievances, to place them on a different footing, they were told it could not be done, because in the attempt they might happen to touch upon some small part of the existing representation. The petitioners were charged with having in view the object of parliamentary reform, though they did not admit it themselves. He was at a loss to account for this line of argument. There was nothing so disgraceful in the name of parliamentary reform that they should be ashamed to avow it; and the usual way of judging the motives of men was from their conduct and language. No importance, however, was attached, by those! who held such an argument, to the declarations of those to whom it referred. He was sure, notwithstanding all that had been said, not only that parliamentary reform was not the object of the petitioners, but that a very small portion of them advocated in their minds the question which generally went by the name of parliamentary reform. For his own part, though he was by no means ashamed of the appellation, he should approach any proposition that contemplated a great change of system with considerable apprehension. But with such matter they had now nothing to do. The simple proposition before them was, to do what they had done in 1793, when they appointed a committee of inquiry. But what, he
192Mr. J. P. Grant
 said, he held in his hand a petition from the royal burgh of Aberdeen, praying for a reform of the burgh system in Scotland. It complained of the system of self-election practised by the magistrates, and pointed out the necessity of giving the burgesses the power of electing their magistrates. It was signed by 14 burgesses of Aberdeen, whose united property amounted to upwards of half a million sterling: in addition to which, it contained the names of three-fourths of the burgesses of Aberdeen, though it had been kept open for signatures but a few hours.Mr. Hume
190 said, he was anxious that the House should go into a commit-
190Mr. W. Douglas
187 said, that the noble lord was rather unfortunate in his assertion, that the present motion was not connected with parliamentary reform, when all his observations were directed to prove the propriety of a change in the present system, on which the members from Scotland were returned, to a free and popular election. The object of this motion for inquiry, was nothing less than to strike
187Mr. W. Dundas
151 remarked, that the impression on his mind was, that the two parts
151The Speaker
 observed, that the petitioners could know nothing of any speech made in that House.The Speaker
 replied, that the expressions in the petition must be taken as referring to what had occured in that House, and no where else; and that he could see no reason why this petition should not fall under the same rule which had excluded its predecessor.Sir G. Clerk
 observed, that the petition did not convey any complaint of what had actually taken place in the House.Sir J. Mackintosh
229 replied, that if the hon. member would wait until the treaties connected with the territorial arrangements of Europe were before the House he would be better enabled to form an
229Lord Castlereagh
232locus in quo complimented the hon. member on the bold and manly manner in which he had treated the subject; and which rendered it, on the first view, of the question, difficult to see what objection there could be to the adoption of the bill. The bill purported not to make any alteration in the existing law of the land, but only to render it more effectual. To one provision of it, indeed, he saw no objection, namely, that which required every proprietor of a house or other property coming to vote at elections, to state the particulars of his right, the nature of the tenements on which it was founded, the 232locus in quoMr. Davies Gilbert
 said, that if the Bill was to pass, they were to assume a defect existing in the law, which it was not at all clear was so. At common law, occasionality, if made out, was decisive against the right of voting. His objection was, that that being so, it was not prudent to introduce a doubt respecting it, and, by a side-wind, to make a material alteration in the existing law regarding the exercise of the elective franchise. The bill enacted, that a person claiming to vote in right of a freehold should not be permitted to do so, unless he made a declaration, that he had been in possession a certain time before. He objected to that enactment, because he thought it was law already. The question was, was it prudent to make that law in the case of burgage tenure, which was law in the case of freehold? He thought the Bill unnecessary. When it was said that occasionality was against the general law of the land, he was aware, it might be urged, that that was not so, as the legislature had, at no very distant period, interfered, and enacted laws against it. But all the legislature did was, to explain the law, and supply certain deficiencies. Voting on burgage tenure property, in the mode referred to, had been so long acquiesced in, that it now formed a part of the law of the land. The learned member then moved, as an amendment, "That the bill be read a second time this day six months."Mr. Courtenay
235llll desired, before the Speaker left the chair, to put a few questions to an hon. friend of his opposite, relative to the New Post Office. There had been already expended, in preparing the site of that edifice, the sum of 238,000235llllMr. R. Gordon
l observed, that whatever money might be wanted for the new post-office, ought very properly to be defrayed by the public, as it was an absolute convenience for the carrying on of business. The city of London would pay 10,500lMr. Alderman Wood
llll240l conceived that a saving might be effected in the estimates of 120,000llll240lColonel Davies
253 could! not allow the exertions of his hon. friend on this sub-
253Mr. Courtenay
 suggested, that if it were printed in two several bills, the discussion on each might take place separately, and thus save much of the time of the House.The Solicitor General
, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr. R. Martin, and several other members rose. The rest, however, gave way toLord Castlereagh
255§, who said, that he had never witnessed a greater exhibition of intemperate warmth than that which the right hon. baronet had just displayed. The exultation of the right hon. baronet was so great, in consequence of the idle story which he had heard, that he could not restrain the ebullition of his feelings till the order of the day for taking this question came on, but had vented it upon the presenting of this petition. He did not rise with any intention of repelling the aspersion which had been thrown upon the members who had risen along with him; they were able to defend themselves; but he rose with some warmth, and a good deal of indignation, to repel the charges which had been urged against his majesty's ministers in general, and himself in particular The right hon. baronet's connexion with a commercial town might account for his feeling with regard to the measure. That the measure
255§Lord Castlereagh
256 agreed, that it might have been better if the right hon. baronet had omitted his observations, of which, however, an unfair advantage had been taken. If the chancellor of the exchequer had indeed changed his opinions, and abandoned the system, at least it would have been but decorous if he had stated to the House the grounds of his alteration. The question was, whether he had abandoned that system of cruelty, tyranny, and injustice: if he had, credit was undoubtedly due to him, though at a heavy expense of personal consistency. Was the rumour true or untrue? If true, had he communicated with the representatives of the great towns, and those who were most interested as to its effects only? The other night he had maintained, with much earnestness, that if the system of town-land fines were abandoned, great injury would arise to the legal distillers; their ruin would ensue: yet now it appeared that he had consigned them to ruin without the slightest compunction. He had said, that the system was essential to the morals and happiness of the people; yet now he had consented to leave them a
256Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
 defended the system of still fines, upon the ground of necessity, and deprecated the epithets that were applied to it. He had supported the principle while in office as a choice of evils, and if he were still in office, he would do the same. He hoped that the measure intended by his right hon. friend would prove effectual; for no man could more rejoice in the abandonment of the principle, provided it could be done without injury to the revenue and the morals of the country.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
imperium in imperio said, that whatever his opinions might be on the law relating to still fines, he should not be influenced by the opinion of any chancellor of the exchequer, for he never knew two of them to agree. It was the constant misfortune of Ireland, that it never had a chancellor of the exchequer who seemed either willing or able to entertain sentiments of general policy calculated to serve the common interests of the realm, and yet not conflict with local concerns. There were no fixed principles, but the country was oppressed by an imperium in imperioSir J. Stewart
 suggested that the House had better abandon the discussion into which it was surprised, and return to the petition, which was the only subject regularly before the House.Mr. Peel
 denied that he had recanted the opinion which he formerly held. He still thought that the measure was useful in suppressing illicit distillation, though it was attended with hardships in particular cases. With this view, he had agreed to the proposal of going into committee on the subject. Subsequent reflection had suggested a measure which he hoped would operate as a substitute, and which he should propose in a few nights; till that time the House would do him the justice to suspend their judgment. With regard to the interview of that morning, he should only say that he had met the gentlemen with every disposition to conciliate, and that they had made no attempt to deter him from the adoption or rejection of any measure.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he would bring it forward in a few days, and communicate in the mean time with those who ought to be consulted.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
260 said, that feeling as he did for the morals and the prosperity of Ireland, he was rejoiced at the step the Prince Regent's ministers had taken to abolish so cruel, so unjust, so oppressive a system. If gentlemen would only inquire into the subject—if they would consider the cruel operation of the still fines—if they would reflect on the utter falsity of the charge made against the character of the gentlemen of the north of Ireland, they could not hesitate to put an end to a system which was unjust and oppressive, impolitic and absurd. The distilleries in the north of Ireland had been more particularly adverted to—and here again he would entreat the attention of gentlemen to a consideration of the system, to the expense of its machinery, to the employment of military power, to
260Sir Francis Burdett
, of Galway, did not rise to offer any thing in defence of the noble lord or the right hon. gentleman: he did not think they needed it. But when the right hon. baronet had stated, that a number of Irish members had gone in a body to ministers, for the purpose of intimidating them, he had, though intending to wound the government, wounded the character, or attempted to do so, of those members. Could it be believed, that because their own object was not carried, they would inflict a wound on the government in the most tender point, by voting for those measures which originated on the opposite side of the House? It did not follow, that because he could not attain a great good, that he should support a great evil to the country, by giving his support to the measures of the right hon. baronet and his friends. He did not mean to defend the noble lord, and the right hon. gentleman. The noble lord and his friends did not require it; but it was absurd to say that they could be intimidated. If any hon. member thought that the noble lord could be intimidated, he would seriously recommend him to try the experiment. He gave credit to the motives of the right hon. baronet. He had no doubt they were sincere. The right hon. baronet was a very useful watch upon the measures of the administration. He was well skilled in accounts and other minor matters, and was of service on the opposite side of the House, where, as long as he had a vote, he would endeavour to keep him [A laugh].Mr. Martin
259 said, he did not rise to defend his right hon. friend,—he thought his conduct was not only out of the reach of censure, but above all praise. He did not know any public man who laboured so hard, who acted so zealously, or so much to his own honour, for the benefit of Ireland and the general good of the empire, as the right hon. baronet. The noble lord had, without meaning it, acted unkindly towards his right hon. friend—he had charged him with directing his attention to local and particular interests. He did not direct his attention to local interests, but where he was called upon to do so as a public man. As to the system of distillation, he would not enter into that subject for the present; he would merely state, that a great portion of the revenue of Ireland arose from
259Mr. Hutchinson
 maintained, that the learned mover of the amendment had been inconsistent with himself, having first argued that the bill was unnecessary, and then admitted that parts of it might be made the subject of a separate measure. He would support the bill, on the ground that it only called on the voters to give certain criteria, in order to afford the means of ascertaining whether or not the general principle of the law against occasionality had been violated.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 said, he felt the greatest indignation at the attack which was made by the right hon. baronet upon the gentlemen connected with Ireland. He was one of those who had waited that morning on the chancellor of the exchequer and the noble lord, upon the subject then under discussion. They had found every disposition to attend to their statements; but he utterly denied that any thing like a threat was made use of.Mr. Dawson
 presented a petition from Jeremiah Loughry, complaining of the hardships which he had suffered under the Illicit Distillation laws, and praying that his grievances might be taken into consideration.General Hart
 said, that he was desirous on this occasion to put a question to the noble lord, which he had been prevented, by want of a proper opportunity, from asking at an earlier period. It related to a transaction which had excited considerable interest, not only in this country, but throughout the whole of Europe. A treaty had been entered into between the courts of Munich and Vienna, for effecting, in behalf of the former, an eventual dismemberment of the grand duchy of Baden; and it was understood that this arrangement had received the sanction of several other powers. In order to avert this calamity from his subjects, the late grand duke of Baden executed a formal deed of settlement, by which he declared his dominions to be indivisible, and called to the succession a regular series of heirs. He (Mr. S.) therefore wished to know from the noble lord, whether this solemn act had been considered and recognised by the congress at Aix-la-Chapelle, and whether the courts which had entered into a conspiracy for despoiling a defenceless ally, had been induced to renounce this unjustifiable design?Mr. Sinclair
en bourgeois247 said, that the great question for the consideration of the committee was, whether an army of 29,553 men was not too large an establishment to be kept up in time of profound peace. It was impossible that such an army could be employed in performing the duties of the country, particularly when it was considered that there were numerous corps of volunteers established in the different districts. The army kept in Ireland amounted to 20,670 men. If such a number of soldiers were necessary to the maintenance of tranquillity in Ireland, it was a disgrace to the government of this country. It was the duty of ministers to adopt such measures as would make the people of Ireland attached to the government, instead of making them detest it. He had been told, that nearly the whole administration of justice in Ireland, was carried on by means of the military; and it was in evidence, that all the gaols of that country were guarded by soldiers, in the room of police; nay, he understood that the offices of turnkeys and attendants, were performed in the same way; and that in one gaol alone, there were no less than
en bourgeois247Mr. Bennet
252, again adverting to the subject of prize money to medical officers,
252Mr. Bennet
 contended that this was the 6ingle solitary instance in which the medical staff had not shared in prize money, as matter of course. At Lisbon they shared with the army for the capture of Badajos, at Salamanca for the battle of Salamanca, at Vittoria for the battle of Victoria, and it was now, for the first time, that a ray of light had broken in upon the generosity of his majesty's ministers.Mr. Bennet
 could not concur in the construction which the noble lord put on prize money, which he seemed to think the effect of chance rather than the reward of brilliant service.General Gascoyne
 was glad to hear this explanation given; still, however, he thought the medical officers immediately attending on the wounded at Brussels, ought to have been considered in the distribution of the prize money. In the late promotions, he certainly believed that the appointments were made in two cases out of three when they were not taken out of the half-pay list, from promises made to meritorious officers, who had faithfully served their country. In his own regiment, the only five vacancies which had occurred were filled up from the half-pay list.General Gascoyne
257, though not an Irishman, could not hear such accusations brought against the Irish without feeling indignant. Accustomed as he was to follow in the train of ministers, he could not hear
257Mr. Wildman
 rose to move, that the House should resolve itself into a committee on this bill. He said, that the necessity of making some alteration in the present system was so generally acknowledged, that it would be unnecessary for him to dwell upon it. Some of the most eminent lawyers had given their opinions on this subject, and had suggested the means of correcting those abuses which now existed. He had had communications with many individuals high in the estimation of the country upon this subject; who had advised him to divide the bill into two distinct bills. This advice he had also received from many professional gentlemen, whose recommendation was entitled to the highest consideration. He had, therefore, divided his bill into two parts; the first was the regulative part, and related chiefly to the new administration of a bankrupt's effects, the appointment of assigness, the receipt of dividends, and the recovery of debts; the second contained the alterations which he wished to make in the existing law. The hon. gentleman then moved, that the committee should have power to divide the bill.Mr. John Smith
 had no objection to this proposal.Mr. Smith
 begged to explain. He would be the last man to advocate the abolition of that establishment. What he had said, was, that as we were now in a state of peace, a considerable reduction might be made in its expenditure.Mr. Hume
l246llllllll245l244lllll243242l241 said, that the objections he had to make on the present occasion to some parts of the military estimates, would not, he hoped, be considered as in any way reflecting on the army. No man in the House was more sensible of the merit
l246llllllll245l244lllll243242l241Mr. Hume
, after complimenting the hon. mover upon the diligence with which he had investigated the evils of the bankrupt-laws, said that there were certain clauses in the present bill to which, he could by no means give his support. It appeared to him inconsistent with reason, that there should be seventy commissioner appointed to decide on bankrupt cases, and that there should be only one judge to decide upon the petitions of insolvents, of which he understood that 4,000 were presented annually, affecting the property and interests of numerous individuals.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 had no hesitation in promising that that would be done.Mr. Lushington
 Stated, that until all the buildings were pulled down on which the new post-office was to be erected, it was quite useless to take any plan into consideration. Preparatory steps had lately been taken to promote a competition of architects. When it was recollected that 7 or 800 individuals were to be accommodated in the new office, the selection of a plan ought not to be made in a hasty manner. He could inform his hon. friend, that what he had chosen to denominate a job, would be not more an ornament than an accommodation to the city.Mr. Lushington
233 maintained, that the system of nomination was one of the greatest blots on the constitution. He thought the hon. mover's proposition perfectly fair. Let the bill go into a committee, and then let the hon. member for Bodmin propose to take the nomination boroughs out of the, operation of the bill. Besides, it should be considered, that the provisions of the bill were applicable to other descriptions, of franchise besides burgage tenures, to the correction of the irregularities attend-
233Mr. Brand
 said, that thinking as he did of burgage tenures, it could not be expected that he should himself exempt them from the operation of the bill; but if in a committee the sense of the House should be adverse to that part of the bill, they might deal with it as they thought proper.Mr. Williams
231bona fide230dprima facie rose to move the second reading of this bill. After every consideration that he had been able to give the measure, he felt assured that his bill went neither to alter the mode by which members were seated in that House, to impair the rights of individuals, nor to disturb any species of property. Its object was solely to make that illegal which was acknowledged to be 231bona fide230dprima facieMr. W. Williams
258 maintained the necessity of the principle of still fines, and expressed
258Sir G. Hill
 did not mean to find any fault with the army estimates, but he hoped, if an opportunity of reducing the expenditure of the country offered, it would be embraced by ministers.Sir I. Coffin
, after highly eulogizing the character, services, and merit of the medical staff, and contending for their right to a participation in the Waterloo grants, particularly in the case in question, where they were exposed to considerable personal risk, proceeded to put a question to the noble lord. He observed in the army list the names of officers continued four years, yet having a mark against them, to denote that they had only temporary rank. Now, he thought it would be very unfair and injurious to the service, if they were to be permitted to count this as part of their time, and so be enabled, eventually, to dispose of their commissions.Sir R. Wilson
 asked, if any of the officers alluded to, as standing on the army list without a commission, did not receive pay.Sir R. Wilson
254 said, that he should take the present opportunity of asking the right hon. gentleman opposite what had been done with regard to the distillery laws. On a former occasion, he had expressed his surprise at the very extraordinary conduct of ministers on this question; and now he had to express his surprise at a still more extraordinary determination (if men whose principles were so wavering could be said to have any determination) to which they had, as he was told, very recently come. They had abandoned the town-land fines, and had abandoned them after the obstinate defence of them which they had lately made, in such a manner as showed, that they had not done so from any conscientious alteration of their opinions, but from the influence of threats which had been held out to them of a loss of support in several of their adherents. If a ministry could be found that were cowardly enough to sacrifice one-fourth of the revenue of their country to the threats of individuals, was that an administration which deserved the support of the House, or the confidence of the people In what a situation would the House be placed, if another body of their supporters should go to them and say, that they would withdraw their support, unless the ministers retracted the resolution which they had previously formed? For his own part, he
254Sir John Newport
 said, the best mode of producing a good plan, would be by exciting a free and fair competition of artists.Sir J. Newport
 repeated his assertion, that he had received his information from authority on which he could depend, though the fact had been, in some degree, disavowed by those who were concerned! in it. He wished to know when it was the intention of the chancellor of the exchequer to bring forward his measure, and whether he proposed to communicate with those persons in Ireland who were interested in the question?Sir J. Newport
 was surprised to hear an hon. member, advocate the abolition of the Royal Asylum. It was due to those who fought for the country that this provision should be made for their children.Sir A. Hope
 begged pardon. He had understood the hon. member differently. The next objection which had been made was to the Military College. This subject had been discussed before, and a committee had reported to the House that it was beneficial to the country in supplying officers for the army. The hon. member here entered into a detail of the present expenses of the establishment, which, he observed, were much reduced from what they had been during the war. None of the cadets were promoted to commissions in the army, but such as were found fully qualified, and of these only sixteen now remained to be provided for.Sir A. Hope
 said, that when on a former occasion he had proposed a reduction of 5,000 men, it was not that he desired no greater reduction, but because the House had previously negatived a motion for reducing 10,000 men. The establishment for England of 29,000 men seemed to him enormous, especially at a time when only two millions were applicable to the reduction of our debt. The force in Ireland, great as it was, might be necessary; but that necessity was only created by the misgovernment of that country.Lord Althorp
 explained, that he meant to put no such construction; all he had stated was, that the prize-money was limited to the army actually in the field, either at Waterloo or at the capture of Paris.Lord Palmerston
250ll249, in answer to the objections which had been made to the number of men in each regiment, said, that it would be impolitic to fill them up to the usual compliment in a time of peace. If that were done, and a war were to break out, the only means of augmenting our forces would be by raising now regiments; which it was obvious would be attended with great delay and inconvenience; whereas, by the present regulation, considerable addition could be made to the army, by filling up each regiment. He did not mean then to enter on the subject of the Irish staff, as it was under the consideration of government, and would be matter of future discussion. The Military College merited the support of the country, as it had supplied the army with many able and meritorious officers. It was well known how great an inconvenience, on the breaking out of a war, it was, not to have scientific officers—and scientific officers could only be obtained by experience or by instruction. Such an establishment as the Military College was necessary to keep the army in a state of efficiency; for notwithstanding the gallantry of our officers, without either that experience which war afforded, or that instruction which it was the object of this college to give, they must yield to men of superior science. As to the extent of that establishment, it was not found that it turned out more cadets than could be provided with commissions, for the support of the army on its peace establishment. If that were the case hereafter, there could be no hesitation in making a proportionate
250ll249Lord Palmerston
dsllllll239llllllllsllllllll238†llllldslllllll237llllslldsldsldsl236 said, in rising to move the Army Estimates for the present year, he should not trespass long on the attention of the House. The report of the committee of finance on this subject was so full, and so minute in its details, as to leave very little to state by the person who brought forward the estimates. Upon a general view of the numbers of the army for the present year, as compared with the number of men voted last year taking, in the first instance, the permanent establishments of the two years, and leaving out the troops in India and in France, there would be found a diminution of 9,800 or in round numbers of 10,000 men. Upon a general view of the whole of the estimates of last year and the present year, there appeared to be a diminution in the present year of 26,042 men. This was the amount of the reduction of force which had actually been effected since the estimate of last year.
dsllllll239llllllllsllllllll238†llllldslllllll237llllslldsldsldsl236Lord Palmerston
 replied, that, there was not one as he believed.Lord Palmerston
 replied, that it was the usage of the service to confer this honorary distinction on particular individuals; but they held no commissions in our army, nor, of course, derived any emolument from that honour. It was purely, indeed, honorary, and had been in the present case conferred on some distinguished foreigners as a mark of favour.Lord Palmerston
dsldsl264l263ll said, that even if he were to agree in all he had heard on this subject from ministers—that even if he were to take for granted the case made out for ministers, in order to justify the present extent of the military establishment—granting all this, he yet would prove, that without diminishing that force, there could be effected a saving in the army for England and the colonies of 120,000dsldsl264l263llColonel Davies
 seconded the motion, although his objection went rather to the principle of the bill than to its provisions. But of the provisions, he would principally oppose that which related to domestic servitude. The bill was supported on the ground that it would put a stop to much litigation, but in this he thought there was a fallacy. The claims to settlement under the existing law, though depending on many circumstances, were not liable to so much difficulties in their details as those which were proposed to be substituted.Mr. Mildmay
285 objected generally to the bill, and said, that if the hon. general would consent to withdraw his amendment, he would propose instead of it that the report be taken into consideration on this day six months. He argued at some length to show the injustice and impolicy of compelling parishes where an individual had resided for three years, to support them in their necessities. He supposed the case of a labourer in a manufacturing town, wherein the manufactures had failed—in such a case it would
285Mr. Phillips
286 Lewis spoke at some length in favour of the measure. He was supported in the opinion he entertained of it by one whose sentiments had always been listened to with attention, and whose loss would for ever be deplored by the House; he meant the late sir Samuel Romilly. By him it was said, that such a system as was now proposed to be introduced was one of the greatest improvements in the laws regarding the poor he had heard of. But this was not a solitary opinion; men whose knowledge and experience on these matters rendered their sentiments valuable had also expressed their approbation of the system. Supported and strengthened by these opinions, he had no difficulty in declaring, that the system which at present existed brought ten times more injustice upon the pauper, and ten times more hardship upon the parish, than the system which was proposed to be introduced by this bill. He strenuously supported original settlements—settlements in that parish where the child was bred and born, under the parental roof where it had received its education, and where it had given the benefit of its labours. How often was it the case at present, that a man worn down by age an infirmity was sent from the spot where he had spent the greater part of his life, to that parish where he might have obtained a settlement by the labour of a single year, but where he was perhaps unknown, and where he was unlikely to obtain a subsistence! This was hard indeed upon the parish, but doubly hard upon the unfortunate pauper, to be removed from his friends and connexions, at a moment, perhaps, when he was afflicted with illness, to a place where he might expire without regret to a single individual in the parish. He remarked upon the facility with which settlements were gained by labour, and earnestly recommended the adoption of a system which would prove a comfort and a blessing to the pauper. He saw no reason why towns as well as country parishes should not bear a proportion of the burthen of supporting these paupers. He was sensible of the inconvenience of charging the manufacturing districts with paupers, but still they ought to support their share of the burthen. He was also sorry to ob-
286Mr. Frankland
 objected to the notion of uniting two of the parishes in Wales in the manner alluded to. He rather thought the bill would work more harm than good. The only way to get rid of the difficulties respecting the poor laws, which caused such endless litigation, was to retread the steps that had been passed, and abolish settlements altogether. Labour was the property of the poor man, and he should be at liberty to exercise it wherever he pleased.Colonel Wood
 approved of the bill in general, though he admitted that there were some objections to it. The amendment was important, as tending to raise the character of the poor. A great number of Irish were annually imported into Liverpool, and he thought the residence in large towns ought to be five years. The simplification of the law was a great gain, although in the present generation it might be attended by inconveniences. It would be ungracious to object too strongly to this first-fruits of the committee on the poor laws. The task it had to perform was complicated and difficult; and if it were not encouraged, gentlemen would be very reluctant to undertake the duties, He was in favour of the re-commitment, that the amendment might be introduced.Mr. Canning
 opposed the bill, on the ground that it was fertile of litigation.Mr. A. Wright
 replied briefly, and said he had no objection to the recommittal of the bill.Mr. S. Bourne
276sll275 said, he was anxious to state to the House his reasons for opposing the bill. Those reasons appeared to him strong and convincing, and he was satisfied that the House would never pass such a bill without full inquiry and much deliberation. In the opinion he had formed upon the bill, he differed from many whose sentiments he much respected; but although he should be the last man to stand up for corruption, he would willingly be the first man to call for justice. In the three cases in which the interference of the House in a similar manner had been called for, the corruption proved was much greater than in the present case. He alluded to the cases of New Shoreham,
276sll275Mr. Bernal
 opposed the amendment. He thought the bill only put the electors in a situation in which they had less power to injure the constitution and sell their own rights.Mr. N. Culvert
ll said, that the question for the House to consider, was, whether a majority of the electors had not sold themselves, and had been in the practice of selling themselves. In Mr. Gribble's evidence it appeared, that a majority of the resident voters had received bribes. Out of 61 who had voted for sir Masseh Lopes, 40 had received bribes. Owing to some compromise between the parties, the full details of bribery and corruption had not come to light. This was a great inconvenience, to which election committees were, exposed. Although the case might be manifestly strong, and fully made out, yet if parties choose to compromise, the committee would proceed no farther with the investigation. Mr. Bremridge, agent for Mr. Ommaney, was proved to have given money to the voters on loose grounds. The evidence was sufficient to convict the agent, but not sufficient to reach the principal. The committee took it so. But the electors at least were affected by this evidence. This, too, had been the system of the borough.. All who were not gentlemen got something for their vote. At this moment much canvassing was going on among them, and their resolution was, to wait till some rich turtles should come down from London to offer themselves [A laugh]. Mr. John Gribble, in his evidence, stated, that 5llMr. Bennet
277 was sorry that he roust give his decided opposition to the amendment of his hon. friend. He now gave notice, that he would, move, in the
277Sir Robert wilson
 said, that the House ought to act upon an uniform principle. Nothing could be less becoming its dignity, or Jess effectual in correcting abuse, than to be at one time rigid, and at another time lax. He wished to know upon what principle the House were bound to act in such a case. If there was any proportion of voters, however small, who had been convicted of bribery, were they bound to disfranchise the borough? If out of 100 voters, only one had accepted a bribe, would the act of that individual be a sufficient ground for depriving the remaining 99 of their elective franchise? Such a supposition would be ridiculous. Supposing, again, that the numbers of the innocent and of the guilty were equal, how were the House to draw a line of distinction? He apprehended that they should decide on the disfranchisement of a borough only in cases where a majority of the voters had accepted bribes. Another question was, whether a borough was to be disfranchised for its own immediate act? Or, as was the case in the present instance, was the conduct of those who had voted many years ago to be urged as a ground of criminality against those who at present exercised the elective franchise? It was also necessary to consider on what sort of evidence the House were to build; whether on evidence given before an election committee, or evidence given at the bar of the House; and also what other species of evidence should be admissible. It was the duty of every man to ascertain the principle on which he ought to act; and as he could not perceive the principle on which the House was bound to decide in the present case, he should not vote at all upon the subject.Mr. Barkam
278 spoke in favour of the bill. It was impossible, he said, to establish any precise principle that should be applicable to all cases of corruption; the utmost the House could do on such occasions was, to act on a principle broad enough to embrace every degree of corruption. In the present instance it was known that an immoral practice had been systematically pursued. Mr. Gribble, the banker, admitted in his evidence before the committee, that the electors—it was not said a majority, or a minority of
278Mr. Bathurst
 read an extract from the evidence, to show, that the bribery oath was not tendered at the election to any of the voters. This coupled with the statement, that at several elections sums of money had been given to the electors for their votes, showed that a regular system of corruption, which called for the intervention of the House, was constantly acted on.Sir John Newport
 said, it appeared that, at the last election, the bribery oath had been administered to Mr. Catton, one of the electors.Mr. Bernal
279 said, he drew his in-
279Sir John Newport
, of Galway, thought, the House should not resort to this extraordinary measure, until it had been shown that legal means had failed. The right hon. baronet's reason for thinking that the borough ought to be disfranchised, was the very reason why he (Mr. Martin) thought otherwise. If they had been guilty of bribery because the bribery oath had not been tendered, it followed, that if the dark of the peace had administered the oath, they would not have acted as they had done. He was not disposed to go farther than to disfranchise those persons who had accepted bribes, because he thought it the very essense of injustice to punish the innocent for the guilty. He remembered a case in the Irish House of, Peers, in which it was proved, that some members had prostituted their votes; but it never entered into the head of the legislature to disfranchise the whole peerage on that account. For himself, he must say, that such a proposition was unjust, and therefore he felt it his duty to support the amendment.Mr. Martin
281280 observed, that the hon. gentleman who spoke last was in error, in supposing that it was intended to disfranchise the electors of Barnstaple, as the object of the bill was only to multiply the voters for that borough. Such a measure could not then be deemed disfranchisement, unless it were concluded that the franchise of an elector for. Westminster, where the electors were comparatively so numerous, was of less value than that of an elector for Grampound. An hon. gentleman had suggested the propriety of laying down some specific rule to guide their decisions as to the disfranchisement of boroughs that came under their cognisance. The hon. gentleman, however, must be aware that it was difficult to settle a priori the grounds on which they were to decide, the House must act on the case as it came before them, and must be guided by the general practice, and the nature of the particular instances of corruption proved against a borough, rather than by any fixed and definite principle. If the House took the advice of those who opposed the bill, it might be alleged, that however ready they were to inquire into other abuses, they were unwilling to remedy any abuse that existed among themselves. He could not conceive that the giving the elective franchise to the
281280Lord Milton
282 said, he fully concurred in almost every sentiment expressed by the noble lord. He could not see why the House should not prosecute such a measure as the present for the sake of its own honour and character with the country. The worthy alderman proceeded, but was for a short time rendered inaudible by loud coughing in several parts of the House. He paused for a moment, and when silence was in a great degree restored, he thus continued. If he pressed unnecessarily on the time of the House—if he occupied its attention for any time, however short, with any remarks which he did not conceive tended to the point in debate, he should be the last to forgive himself; but when he only rose to express his honest feeling, however humbly he might be able to give it utterance, he did not see why he should be met in the way he just now had been. He could not see why on every occasion several members in that House should exert themselves to cry him down [Hear hear]. If that system were to be continued, what ever might be his feelings as an individual, and however little weight might attach to his opinions, in the humble way in which he expressed them, yet he could not by silent submission compromise the trust he held from his constituents, or his own privilege as a member of that House. "I remember, Sir," continued the hon. member, turning towards the Speaker, "when I heard you, and heard you with delight, a short time back at the bar of the House of Lords, beg the unrestricted liberty of speech for yourself, and every member of this House. That freedom of expressing our opinions we all possess, as representatives of the people;
282Mr. Waithman
 spoke against that part of the bill, which admitted non-resident householders to the right of voting.Mr. V. Blake
 observed, that the opinions of the noble lord and the worthy alderman would come better at another stage of the bill. It should be recollected, that the present was not a penal bill: it was not to punish particular individuals—that could be obtained by the courts of law; but the object of the bill was a general one, and done to guard the House against a gross invasion of its privileges—to prevent, by enlargement of the number of voters, a corrupt body of men from again bartering their rights, and sending their purchaser to take a seat in that House. The hon. member then went on to show the impropriety of looking at the present bill as a penal law against a particular body of men, and maintained that it should only be viewed as a law in support of a general principle—a principle which the House was bound to support. As to the question of general reform, he should not say more than that he would consent to no reform where a great practical evil did not exist, and to which a probable remedy could be applied. The House, he contended, were bound, for the sake of their own character—for the sake of that respect which it was essential they should be held in by the country, to pass the present measure. The great mischief which the country was likely to sustain from violent declaimers on the subject of reform, arose from those single instances of corruption being suffered to pass unnoticed, or with impunity. Such tales passed from mouth to mouth, and from generation to generation, and contributed more to alienate men's minds from the constitution than any other which could be devised. They were used by incendiaries for their own purposes, and were always productive of a lasting impression against the government. A single instance of such a case was calculated to do more mischief than many of perhaps better-founded objections. The hon. gentleman went on to show the bad effects of such practices being suffered to pass with impunity, when they were urged by political incendiaries; and after a few comments on the argument of extending the franchise to some great towns instead of the neighbouring hundreds, which he thought would be inconvenient, concluded by expressing his concurrence in the general principle of the bill.Sir J. Mackintosh
 spoke in favour of instituting prosecutions against the guilty.Mr. Forbes
284 said, that in forming this
284Lord Clive
 denied that the effect of the bill would be to prevent litigation. To give the lawyers a new act of parliament, was rather a strange way of diminishing their practice. He enumerated in detail the provisions of the bill, and thought that it was most injudicious to prevent a man from obtaining a variety of settlements in the course of his occupations.Mr. G. Lamb
 objected to the bill, principally on the ground of its tendency to increase parochial burthens.Mr. Allan
 believed that these establishments had been very nearly the same in principle for a great number of consecutive years. All the points alluded to by the hon. gentleman had been fully explained and discussed by his noble friend on introducing the estimates, and he thought it too much for the House to be called on to acquiesce in the views of the hon. member, who had not thought proper to go into any details, nor inquire into the necessity of any one branch of the service. The peace establishment of 1792 had been represented as the true standard; and he fully admitted that reference should be had to it, whenever a material change of circumstances, or the increased number of our foreign possessions, did not make such a comparison altogether inapplicable. In forming a fair judgment on this subject, it was essential to revert to the policy which we found it expedient to adopt at the commencement of the last war, for the purpose of suddenly raising a force which should be equal to our defence at home, whilst it was also disposable for foreign operations.Mr. Goulburn
273 remarked, that the hon. gentleman had opened a wide field into which he was certainly not well prepared to follow him. His observations were not simply and exclusively connected with the vote under consideration, but applied to the principle upon which this country had hitherto regulated its colonial policy. The effect of that principle was, in compensation for a monopoly of commerce, to maintain the civil and military establishments of the colonies. Whenever this branch of the subject should be brought forward, he trusted he should be able to show, that this system of retaining in our own hands the sources of commercial profit, was justified by sound policy, and ought not rashly to be abandoned. Another important point to which the hon. gentleman had adverted was, a supposed misappropriation of certain colonial revenues in Ceylon, the Mauritius, the Cape of Good Hope, and the Ionian Islands. With regard to those belonging to the latter, the government of this country had no more control over them, than over those of a sovereign and independent state. The management of their finances had been secured to them by treaty, on condition only that the garrisons were to be supported. The reason why no deduction was made for the staff appointments in that quarter might be readily assigned. If there was any hon. member who had at all turned his attention to the recent history of those islands, to the political changes they had undergone, and the successive spoliations which had been inflicted upon them, he must be fully aware of the state of want and destitution to which the inhabitants were reduced. This distress had been much aggravated, by the want of integrity in the conduct of persons to whom the financial administration had been intrusted. Amidst these unfavourable circumstances, some delay in raising the necessary revenues had taken place; but it was the anxious desire of the government to extricate itself
273Mr. Goulburn
 brought up the Report of the Committee of supply, to whom the Army Estimates were referred. On the motion, that the first resolution be agreed to,Mr. Goulburn
 observed, in explanation, that he had addressed his remarks to what he considered a charge against his majesty's government.Mr. Goulburn
 said, that he had several objections to make to this bill, for which reason he should move as an amendment, that it be recommitted. The, provision in it which he would chiefly oppose was that relating to the length of time necessary for gaining a settlement. This, in his opinion, ought to be extended from three years, as proposed by the bill, to five years, in the case of native subjects, and to seven in the case of foreigners. This and other points could be discussed only in a committee, for which reason he should move, that the bill be re-committed.General Gascoyne
268 conceived that the arguments of the noble lord, however well they might apply to a very low establishment, were not at all relevant to the one in question. They could only apply to such a one as that settled by Mr. Pitt, in 1792. That suggested by his hon. and gallant friend, was 25 regiments of cavalry, and 91 battalions of infantry. Now, when he heard the noble lord propose, as the permanent peace establishment of the country, 18 battalions of infantry, which 18 were to be more numerous than the 91, he really could not see why the noble lord's reasoning was to be made equally applicable to high as to low establishments. He could not hear it proposed to keep up such an enormous establishment now, looking at what it was in 1792, when the prospect of peace was much less promising without entering his protest against it. There were gentlemen who heard him now, he believed, who were upon the committee of finance of 1792, and voted for that establishment: he called upon them to come forward and "state upon what grounds they could give so inconsistent a vote as should support the one at present proposed. The establishment in 1792 was 11,000 men in all, while 30,000 and upwards were now proposed for Great Britain alone. It was, no doubt, very disagreeable for gentlemen to hear these arguments so often repeated; but let it be remembered they had never been replied to. They had, however, had their effect: some reductions at different times had taken place. Those reductions were not owing to government. They had told the House, year after year, that the estimates were as low as it was possible to fix them at; and yet they had been reduced. The noble lord had said, that this was to be the permanent peace establishment; yet he (Mr. Grant) had no doubt, that although the noble lord might be as little disposed to reduce expenses as any of his majesty's ministers, he would have to submit his estimates on a diminished scale [The cries of "question" here became loud and continued]. He contended, that this was a question of the very first importance; if there was one man in that House who thought it was not, he entreated him to return to his constituents and account to them for his conduct [A laugh, from the ministerial benches]. Notwithstanding the ridicule which came from certain gentlemen on the other side, year after year, he would oppose such establishments as
268Mr. J. P. Grant
lllll denied that he had imputed blame to the government; he had merely asserted that it was in the power of the Crown to make an improper application of the funds in question. It appeared by a return before the House, that in 1815 the revenues of Malta were 114,000lllllMr. Hume
ll272l£. 1,311,225
£. 1,311,225120,000To which the Revenues of the Ionian Islands may be added
120,000To which the Revenues of the Ionian Islands may be added£. 1,191,225
£. 1,191,225114,426Malta for 1815
114,426Malta for 1815206,860The Mauritius, and Bourbon for 1814
206,860The Mauritius, and Bourbon for 1814229,495The Cape of Good Hope in same year
229,495The Cape of Good Hope in same year£. 640,444The Revenues in Ceylon in 1815
£. 640,444The Revenues in Ceylon in 1815
£. 1,311,225
£. 1,311,225120,000To which the Revenues of the Ionian Islands may be added
120,000To which the Revenues of the Ionian Islands may be added£. 1,191,225
£. 1,191,225114,426Malta for 1815
114,426Malta for 1815206,860The Mauritius, and Bourbon for 1814
206,860The Mauritius, and Bourbon for 1814229,495The Cape of Good Hope in same year
229,495The Cape of Good Hope in same year£. 640,444The Revenues in Ceylon in 1815
£. 640,444The Revenues in Ceylon in 1815271l270l269llllll said, he could not allow the resolution to grant 118,021ll272l£. 1,311,225
£. 1,311,225120,000To which the Revenues of the Ionian Islands may be added
120,000To which the Revenues of the Ionian Islands may be added£. 1,191,225
£. 1,191,225114,426Malta for 1815
114,426Malta for 1815206,860The Mauritius, and Bourbon for 1814
206,860The Mauritius, and Bourbon for 1814229,495The Cape of Good Hope in same year
229,495The Cape of Good Hope in same year£. 640,444The Revenues in Ceylon in 1815
£. 640,444The Revenues in Ceylon in 1815
£. 1,311,225
£. 1,311,225120,000To which the Revenues of the Ionian Islands may be added
120,000To which the Revenues of the Ionian Islands may be added£. 1,191,225
£. 1,191,225114,426Malta for 1815
114,426Malta for 1815206,860The Mauritius, and Bourbon for 1814
206,860The Mauritius, and Bourbon for 1814229,495The Cape of Good Hope in same year
229,495The Cape of Good Hope in same year£. 640,444The Revenues in Ceylon in 1815
£. 640,444The Revenues in Ceylon in 1815271l270l269llllllMr. Hume
 admitted, that the removal of the cruel and unfeeling restraint which the old laws put on the poor man's labour ought to be removed, but he could not see how the law of settlement could be removed, unless the poor laws were altogether repealed. An amendment was necessary in the existing law—to make it was, in fact, a choice of evils, and he thought this bill would answer every purpose. He complained of the moral evils which were produced by the old law upon the agricultural population, and contended it was most desirable to amend a system so productive of injurious effects. Not the least of the merits of this bill was, that it would prevent the great expense and litigation now so common in asserting rights of settlement.Mr. Huskisson
, though originally a friend to the motion, felt it a duty he owed to a very large body of his constituents to oppose it.Mr. W. Smith
 suggested to his gallant friend who had moved the amendment, to withdraw it, and allow the bill to go through another stage.Sir G. Clerk
262lll261lllll rose and complained of the large military force which the government seemed, if possible, determined to maintain, in a time of general peace. There were, from the report, 29,000 men for Great Britain; 20,000 for Ireland; and 30,000 for the colonies. The noble lord opposite had as yet made out no case whatever to justify the maintenance of such a force. He had not shown that the country was able to support such a burthen, or how far it ought to be upheld, consistently with the public liberty. The report did not state how or where this large force was to be applied. It merely intimated that a reduction of 50,000 men had taken place since the year 1817. He contended for the necessity of showing some adequate justification for the enormous expense which so large a standing army must entail upon the country. It was not enough to say that the present grant was smaller than a preceding one; it must be also shown that it was just, and absolutely necessary. In looking at the report of the Committee of Finance, the estimate of the income and expenditure for the year 1819, would be fully seen. It appeared that the expenditure for this year would amount to 68,000,000262lll261lllllSir Henry Parnell
274 said, he should trouble the House but for a few moments, the question having arisen in a manner still more unexpected to himself than to the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, and had had some hours notice of it. But it was a most important question; and he thought the meaning of his hon. friend in relation to it, had been a little misconceived. He had not understood his hon. friend to object to that system of commercial policy with respect to our colonies, by which, for the sake of their trade, we exempted them from taxation for the support of their establishments: but to state that a surplus revenue was already derived, applicable to this branch of their military defence. If the statement were correct, and if the servants of the Crown were in receipt of a revenue for which they did not account to parliament, he could not conceive a graver case that could be offered to their consideration. In his opinion, a high constitutional duty devolved upon them, for the discharge of which all other questions should be postponed. The subject was introduced, not for the purpose of imputing blame, but of bringing under review a point intimately connected with the privileges of that House, and the practice of the constitution. He thought the ministers of the Crown were bound, however, to make it appear, that such revenues, if existing,
274Sir James Mackintosh
287 supported the bill. He thought it was a considerable improvement upon the old law, which was too compli-
287Lord Milton
lll266l. llllll265 hoped the House would give credit to his majesty's ministers for their wish, on all occasions, to save every expense which it was possible to spare. But in so doing, however anxious the House might be to exert the most rigid economy, it should consider whether it was better at once to adopt an ascertained and permanent establishment, of which the expenses were submitted to them; or by rejecting that, and endeavouring to reduce it to an impracticable scale, to find itself hereafter involved only in greater expenses and difficulties. The hon. gentleman opposite, he thought, had greatly over-rated the saving which the adoption even of his own plan could effect. In fixing the peace establishment of the country, the House would see that it was not only necessary to consider what was a fair and reasonable force, but that it was requisite to give to our army, in the event of a war, should that ever unfortunately happen, the means of its augmentation with promptness, vigour, and efficacy. In this view he really thought the proposed establishment combined as many advantages as it was possible to incorporate into any one. It was evident that, whatever was the establishment proposed, there would be many to dispute its eligibility—many who would contest even the hon. gentleman's arrangement. There would be a wish to make even his scale still lower. Certainly, he (lord P.) believed, that in some cases, it would be less expensive to have higher establishments than he proposed; but great inconvenience would inevitably result from that system, in the event of a war. Supposing the establishment of the regiments was fixed at 800 men, in what manner would they be able, on the breaking out of hostilities, to augment them? Why, they might propose to add 200 men to each, and so form an unmanageable, unwieldy establishment; and to effect that they must either resort to new battalions or to fresh recruits. It
lll266l. llllll265Lord Palmerston
l304 said, he rose to draw the attention of the House to a petition of a person of the name of George Crook, late a seaman on board one of his majesty's ships, complaining of severe oppression. The allegations contained in the petition called into question the conduct of a very gallant officer in the naval service, and, at the same time, disclosed circumstances which were of infinite importance to the rights and interests of every man in the navy—since all those who were connected with that service, were liable to receive the same description of treatment as that of which the petitioner complained unless he procured redress. He had the petition for some time in his hands, and would have presented it much sooner, but he was desirous, in the first instance, to have some conversation with sir William Hoste, the gallant officer to whom it referred—but he understood that he was out of the kingdom, and was not expected to return for some time. The statement of the petitioner lay in a very narrow compass, although the points which it contained were of the most important nature. He conceived it right to state, that having had much conversation with the petitioner, the impression on his mind was, that he was not a person of bad character—a conclusion which was borne out by the certificates of several respectable individuals, under some of whom he had served in the navy, who spoke of him as a correct and well-behaved man; but, whatever the character of the individual might be, whether good or bad, it had nothing to do with the justice of the case. He stated, that, without any charge being exhibited against him, he was confined on board the Mutine, the ship in which he was serving, for five or six weeks; and that, when the vessel touched at Malta, he was ordered to receive six dozen of lashes by sir W. Hoste, without any court martial having been held on him. After this, he and another man were put ashore, and left to shift for themselves as they could. It was worthy of consideration, that the petitioner was a pressed man; and, having served for a considerable time, pay and prize money were due
l304Sir Francis Burdett
305 said, it was very true the petition had been placed in his hands, but he did not think he was justified in presenting it. He made many inquiries on the subject from the gallant officer opposite, and from him he understood that a correspondence had passed
305Mr. Alderman Wood
307 said, the petitioner's statement was, that a drunken man came to his hammock in the night, swearing that it was his own. The petitioner resisted, and the intruder cut him down, by which he was severely wounded in the head. There never was a charge of the kind now insinuated brought against him; much less was any inquiry instituted with respect to it. Added to this, many persons came forward to give him a good character, amongst whom were several officers under whom he had served. He did not think the gallant admiral was treating the petition with fairness or candour, when he met it with an unsupported allegation of this kind. It was a base insinuation to throw out against any man; and such a course of proceeding rendered it more particularly necessary for the House to examine the merits of the case. The lieutenant said, the petitioner was put on shore—that he was compelled to quit the service. If he had committed any crime, that was not the mode which
307Sir F. Burdett
309 wished to mention two or three of the testimonials to the character of Crook [A cry of spoke! spoke!]. If the House were in such a state of impatience as to prevent it from doing mere justice to an oppressed man, he was quite willing to drop this and every other subject. Admiral Hardy bore testimony to the good conduct of the petitioner while on board the Mutine, and this was confirmed by the lieutenant; independent of which, the surgeon spoke to the propriety and regularity of his general deportment. The real question was, whether the House was not bound to inquire into the abuses
309Sir F. Burdelt
 said, that every one knew sir W. Hoste's public achievements; and he would add, that of all men with whom he ever had had the slightest intimacy, that gallant officer appeared to him to be the most unlikely to commit an arbitrary act of power.Colonel Wodehouse
 said, the records of the convictions would be voluminous documents, and suggested, that it might be adviseable to obtain the necessary information respecting them in a more convenient shape for the House.Mr. S. Bourne
 observed, that it was competent for the House at once to enter into an inquiry into this subject, without being delayed by the proceedings of courts of raw.Lord Castlereagh
 said, the order of the House would of course be imperative on any public officer.Lord Castlereagh
 considered, that it would be enough for the House to issue its order to be served on the proper officer. If that officer made a return, that he had delivered the record to another, the House could take steps to obtain it. It was not their business to anticipate a difficulty.Mr. Wynn
l313lll said, that if the motion which they had just heard was calculated to maintain the constitution in its strength, by maintaining the purity of that House, he had now to make a motion, which would not be less beneficial, by throwing lustre on the body of its nobility. His motion was for a bill to enable the public to accept the magnificent sacrifice of the marquis Camden. The right hon. gentleman then entered into a summary of the origin and nature of the office of tellers of the exchequer, the causes of the increase of their emoluments, and the measures taken in 1780 for restricting them after the death of the then existing holders as reversioners, to 2,700l313lllThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
314lllll observed, that his object in rising to second the motion of his right hon. friend, was simply to give expression to what he was sure must be the feeling that pervaded the House in contemplating this transaction. The extent and nature of the sacrifice made by the noble marquis had been already stated. It was right, however, that the House should be apprized, that during the three years previous to the peace of Amiens, he had sacrificed to the public no less a sum than 24,000314lllllLord Castlereagh
 could not accede to the proposition, that the grants of the Crown were equivalent to fee-simple property, and could not be re-modelled by parliament. With regard to the case under consideration, he highly admired the generosity of the noble marquis.Lord Carhampton
 bore testimony to the cheerful and unostentatious manner in which the noble marquis had performed this act of munificence.Mr. C. Long
 said he should propose the insertion of the words he had mentioned after the second reading.Mr. Bankes
en gene, of Galway, said it was the duty of the county to meet this generous proposition with something as magnanimous, and he should propose that they should refuse the gift [A laugh]. Gentlemen of narrow incomes might put their circumstances en geneMr. Martin
315 concurred in the principle as laid down by
315The Chancellor of the Exchequer
amplissimis verbis agreed, that patent offices were in the nature of freehold property. With respect to the case before them, he believed that no previous example of such munificence could be found. The admiration which it had called forth ought to be expressed amplissimis verbisMr. Bankes
329 said, he wished to take that opportunity of declaring what came within his own knowledge and observation concerning the institution under the superintendence of sir W. Adams. He
329Lord Ebrington
330 thought the hon. and learned gentleman who brought forward this motion, sought to lead the House of Commons out of its peculiar province, which was the exertion of a due vigilance on the expenditure of public money into an interference with the executive in the exercise of one of its prerogatives, namely, the appointment of officers in a military department. He might as well propose at once, that the House should take the control of all military appointments. But he (lord C.) thought the good sense of the House would hardly allow them to adopt such a principle. But it was obvious, from the sentiments of gentlemen on the opposite side of the House, that this was a question not very generally thought fit for discussion. Two hon. and learned gentlemen were strenuous for the production of documents, and disposed to resist the establishment in question,
330Lord Castlereagh
ex parte326l said, that the noble lord was entitled to great praise for his exertions to eradicate one of the most painful and afflicting of disorders. It had been his lot, from circumstances not necessary to detail to the House, to see many an example of the melancholy and grievous effects of ophthalmia, and from all he saw and knew on the subject, he thought it well worthy the attention of the noble lord to make every effort, and institute ever experiment with a view to eradicate that disorder. Would to God that it were eradicated, but melancholy and convincing proofs to the contrary were too easily discovered! The hon. and learned gentleman who opened this debate had laid two grounds in support of his motion: first, that the disease was already eradicated; secondly, that the new institution was putting the country to an unnecessary expense. As to the first, no one would rejoice at such a consummation more than himself; but it was a truth not to be disguised, that cases of the existence of ophthalmia were of every day's occurrence, not only among the military, but in civil life—and it behoved the House to guard itself from being led astray by such a delusion. With respect to the expense, he thought 1,500ex parte326lMr. Hutchinson
332 was sorry to see the motion treated with so little attention. Ceylon had for a considerable time been a scene of warfare and destruction, and it was surely worth the attention of the House to inquire into the cause of this war. If
332Mr. Forbes
311310 said, he felt very much encouraged to bring forward the motion he was about to submit to the House, by the spirit shown in the House last night. He should be sorry, indeed, if there prevailed any disposition in the House to encourage or to protect such disgraceful corruption as that to which he was about to call their attention. By the general spirit shown last night, it was evident there was no such disposition in the House; on the contrary, he was convinced that the House entertained a strong desire to free its character, and the character of the country, from the stain which unchecked corruption would attach
311310Lord John Russell
 defended the conduct of sir W. Hoste.Mr. Ommanney
 explained. He had only meant to say, that there was a vested interest which could not be forfeited except by abuse of the office, and had never contended that to correct this was beyond the competency of parliament.Mr. Tierney
 professed the most sincere satisfaction in contemplating the occasion which had been afforded for the present discussion. He had always felt, and frequently expressed, his regret, that the conduct of marquis Camden in this instance should be passed over with so little public observation. He could assure the House, that he wanted words to express his admiration of this princely sacrifice of private fortune. It was a magnificent donation to the country, made under circumstances which greatly enhanced its character of nobleness and generosity. The House had a few years since, on occasion of a motion brought forward by an hon. friend of his (Mr. Creevey), recognized the principle, that the emoluments of the office in question were private property. To that principle he had given his support, conceiving it to be founded in reason and justice. Were he now to mention the nobleman who in his opinion stood the highest in this country, he should certainly name Lord Camden, whose attachment to his country must be truly strong, to induce him to abandon what had been earned for him by his illustrious father [Hear, hear]. He trusted that a motion would be made for placing some memorial on the journals of the House of so singular an example of disinterestedness. There were precedents for such a proceeding, and no occasion could be fitter for recording the sense of parliament than this great pecuniary sacrifice [Hear].Mr. Tierney
 inquired whether any proof of a criminality had been adduced against the petitioner. If there was not, it was not right that he should be deprived of his wages.Mr. Bennet
 did not mean to oppose the motion, but the hon. baronet would find, on the production of the papers, that his information was not exactly correct on this subject. In answer to the question which had been put to him, he could assure the hon. baronet, that the adigar, or minister, about whom he inquired so solicitously, was, according to the: last accounts from Ceylon, enjoying a perfectly sound state of health [a laugh]. The mistake arose, he supposed, from the similarity of this minister's name to that of another officer, who had revolted, and who having been taken in arms, was tried and sentenced to be executed.Mr. Goulburn
 said, the accusation levelled at the petitioner's character was not gratuitously introduced. It was stated by sir William Hoste, that this man, to whom a large sum of money was said to be due, had run away. It was asked, "Why did he desert—it is not likely he would do so, when so much wages and prize-money were due to him?" The answer was, because he was detected in indecent practices. It was necessary to sir W. Hoste's case that he should show some paramount and overwhelming reason in the case of this man, to account for his conduct. He could not agree that this petition should be received. It was not in the power of the House to grant to the petitioner his wages. He had his action at law; he might bring an action against sir W. Hoste for having cast scandalous imputations on his character, or for improperly causing the letter R. to be affixed to his name, by which he had lost his wages. Unless by law he established his character, or showed that the R. was improperly placed against his name, he could not get the money which he claimed. When the courts of justice were open to him, to them the petitioner ought to apply. It would be a bad precedent to receive such a petition as the present.Mr. Croker
317316 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for certain papers relative to the expense of the Ophthalmic hospital and contingencies, now introduced into the army estimates for the first time. He brought this motion forward, because the expense appeared to him perfectly of a
317316Mr. J. P. Grant
l said, he had merely proposed investigation upon a subject on which he could obtain no authentic information by any other mode. The institution was mentioned amongst other incidental charges in the army estimates, stated altogether at a sum of 9,000lMr. J. P. Grant
328lllsll327l thought the noble lord fully justified in withholding his consent for the production of the papers, and that for two reasons; first, because they were not necessary to enable members to form an opinion on the merits of the new institution, as, if the hon. gentlemen who supported the motion had taken the trouble to make inquiries, they would have found that there were other documents easily obtained, which were fully sufficient for that purpose, without having recourse to any others; and, secondly, because the papers moved for were not fit to be produced, and would be of little use, unless the House were prepared to go into the whole of the contest. His hon. and learned friend, the mover, had been misinformed if he thought that the ophthalmia had totally disappeared in this country; for but two years ago thousands of our soldiers were labouring under it—and at this moment the country was paying pensions to 5,000 persons totally blind from its effects, the aggregate of those pensions amounting to 92,000328lllsll327lMr. Barham
 said, it was most extraordinary, that the hon. baronet, in the different interviews he had had with the petitioner, should never think it necessary to ask him why he had suffered 17 years to elapse before he made his complaint? The hon. baronet had produced testimonials in favour of the petitioner's character, dated in 1797, 1798, and 1801. Was it OR evidence such as this that the House were to be called on to assail the character of sir W. Hoste? The silence of the petitioner for the last 17 years was evidence that his claim was not a just one. Were he alone in the division, he would oppose the reception of a petition, assailing on such grounds the character of such an officer as sir W. Hoste.Dr. Phillimore
nisi prius312 thought the House could
nisi prius312Mr. Denman
308 said, he knew not from what source the hon. baronet had drawn he expression of indignation which he had directed towards his hon. friend and kinsman, because he stood forward to rebut the serious charge that had been brought against a gallant officer. He did not know that gallant officer; but he certainly felt very strong indignation, when he beheld the character of an honourable man attacked on the slight and unsupported surmises of an infamous person, for such he considered the petitioner to be. The hon. baronet complained, that the petitioner had not been brought to trial; now, as the petitioner had deserted, what opportunity was there for trying him? But, in a case of this kind, was it not more prudent in the commander of one of his majesty's ships to punish the individual, and not to notice the fact farther, instead of proclaiming it to all the world? If the petitioner had not been conscious that he was charged with some offence too scandalous to bear the light, would he not have brought the matter to issue, in some way or other, during a period of sixteen years? Now, the circumstance was brought forward, when, of necessity, the best evidence that could be adduced must be defective. The worthy alderman, to whom the petition was first
308Mr. Lyttelton
 wished also to bear testimony to this zealous and noble instance of disinterestedness and public virtue, and to join in that tribute of respect which had been so handsomely rendered by the right hon. gentleman on the floor. He regretted with him, that the sacrifice already made should have been hitherto suffered to pass with so little notice, and he felt himself bound to declare, that the manner in which it was made indicated a truly generous and noble mind.Mr. Wilberforce
 observed, that the associate was obliged to deliver the record to the attorney, who had to return it to the Crown office.Mr. W. Williams
 said, the misfortune was, that the record of the conviction was not in the hand of any public officer.Mr. W. Williams
 said, that he happened to know that at present the record had been taken out of the hands of the associate by the attornies for the party, Messrs. Lamb and Hawke, by whom it should have been lodged in the Crown office. They had, however, not done this, and he feared the motion of the noble lord would thus not be productive of the end proposed. He suggested the calling to the bar the associate.Mr. W. Williams
306 said, the practice regularly adopted in the navy was this:—the ship's company were mustered in the presence of the officers once in every week; the names of those who did not appear were dotted;—and, if three dots were affixed to a sailor's name, it was distinguished by the letter R., signifying that he had run from the ship. After this, he would not be paid his wages without an order from the Admiralty, and his prize-money became the property of Chelsea hospital. That hospital having a vested right in such prize-money, it would be the height of injustice in the Admiralty to attempt to take it away. Now, it was must extraordinary that the petitioner, who was described to be a needy man, having this large sum due to him, never applied to the Admiralty from the year 1801 until 1817. The hon. baronet endeavoured to account for this delay, by stating that he was travelling on the continent with his master. It was not, however, to be supposed that he had been travelling for sixteen years. When he applied at the Admiralty to have the R. removed from his name in the year 1817, captain Hoste was referred to. Captain Hoste's answer, which he then held in his hand, was couched in these terms:—"I have to acquaint you, that I perfectly remember Crook's desertion from the ship at Naples or Malta, and I recollect also the desertion of the other man who was found in the hammock with him." The petitioner stated, that this man had received his wages. In consequence, the Admiralty caused inquiries to be made at the navy board, and they discovered that
306Sir G. Cockburn
 said, the accusation against the petitioner did not rest on mere surmise. The letter said, that Grimaldi was seen coming out of the petitioner's hammock. There was no mention made of the hammock having been cut down. Though an officer might, at a considerable distance of time, suppose that the petitioner was sent out of the ship, the probabilities were, putting all the circumstances together, that he had deserted.Sir G. Cockburn
 answered, that the officer who had been applied to, said the petitioner was found in an indecent situation with another man, and had in consequence been turned ashore. The argument seemed to be, that he must have his wages, although his character could not be restored.Sir G. Cockburn
 observed, that the subsequent testimonies to this man's character, which the hon. baronet alluded to, had nothing to do with the antecedent offence.Sir I. Coffin
 said, that this petition had been put into his hands, a few days ago, by an honourable alderman, but he refused to have any thing to do with it, because he understood that the petitioner had been detected in some improper practices with a person of the name of Grimaldi, when on board the Mutine, which occasioned his desertion. Seventeen years had elapsed since the conduct he now complained of had taken place, and, during that long period, this man had never laid his case before the admiralty. Doubtless he had considered himself well off not to have been hanged for the offence he had committed.Sir Isaac Coffin
 said, that if the record had been delivered by the public officer to any private person as a receipt, the House must still consider the document to be legally in the custody of the officer. There would of necessity be some officer whose duty it was to preserve it.Sir J. Mackintosh
325324 remarked, that the noble lord had said the papers ought not to be laid before the House, as they would only make it acquainted with one side of the question. But the noble lord spoke on one side of the question; why then object to let the House be made acquainted with the other? The noble lord said, the merits of the parties opposed to each other on this occasion ought to be left to the discernment of the public. Right! He would agree to this, but the expense of the new establishment ought also to be left to be decided on by the discernment of the public. The House owed it to that justice due to the medical officers of the army, a body of men who had distinguished themselves as much as any other part of the service during the war; and
325324Sir J. Mackintosh
nisi priusnisi prius said, the original must have been kept in the Crown office. A copy called the nisi priusnisi priusMr. Scarlett
 suggested that it might be sufficient if the clerk of the assizes or of the Crown sent extracts of the material parts of the proceedings.Mr. Scarlett
331 said, that in rising to bring forward his motion on the war in Ceylon, he was aware the House did not wish to enter into a long discussion; but he hoped a feeling of humanity would procure him their attention for a few moments. He wished the question had been taken up by the other side of the House; but as it had not, he felt it his duty to institute an inquiry into it. The affairs of Ceylon were not, he feared, well known in this country, but it was well known that the late king of Candy was of a most cruel and sanguinary disposition, and that his severity was such as to cause his subjects to revolt against him. His first minister having deserted, his family was murdered by order of this tyrant. This induced the minister to apply to the British governor of Ceylon, and after some delay he was allowed the assistance of the British forces, who, assisted by the Candians, succeeded in dethroning the king. On this occasion a treaty was signed by the British authorities on the one hand, and the chief officers and ministers of Candy on the other, by which the latter were vested with the civil government of
331Sir W. De Crespigny
l323 proper 322 elevator321320319318 rose and said, he was far from being sorry that this opportunity had been afforded to him for explaining the nature of the Ophthalmic institution; and he hoped, he should be able, before he sat down, to convince the House that it was not one undeserving the support of the government. During the war, the ophthalmia had made an alarming progress in the army; an hospital for the treatment of the disease had, in consequence, been established; but the practice there certainly did not turn out so successful as could have been wished. He said this without meaning at all to reflect on the head of that establishment (Dr. Vetch), from whom, he believed, the hon. gentleman had received most of his information on this subject, and who, he understood, had been of opinion that he ought to have been made the superintendant of the new establishment, instead of sir W. Adams. It was the anxious wish of his royal highness the commander in chief to ascertain the best mode of treating ophthalmia. Sir W. Adams was said to have introduced a new and improved system. To make a certain trial of its effects, a number of pensioners afflicted with the disorder were placed under his care, and the result was, that a rapid and important improvement was observed to take place among them. The treatment of these poor people gave the highest satisfaction.—Sir W. Adams succeeded in rescuing many of them from a state of utter hopelessness and misery, and enabling them to become useful to themselves and to society [Hear! hear!]. This was not all, for in 1814, sir William's practice received the decided sanction and approbation of a number of medical gentlemen expressly appointed by government to examine its merits. To show the weight to which their opinions were entitled, he had only to mention the names of Sir H. Halford, Dr. Baillie, and Messrs. Home, Cline, A. Cooper, and Abernethy. The noble lord then quoted the following passages from the opinion of Dr. Baillie:—" I think he has the merit of introducing a practice which is likely to be highly useful in a particular chronic state of ophthalmia." And again—" His mode of
l323 proper 322 elevator321320319318Lord Palmerston
 said, the only question which was decided by the casting vote of the chairman was, whether counsel should be heard on a point which had already been decided by the committee. In justice to the committee he had to state, that what related to the bribery being brought home to the sitting member was carried unanimously; but the hon. gentleman was mistaken if he supposed the bribery was brought home to the petitioner.Mr. C. Hervey
, who stated that the course which the hon. baronet was pursuing, was contrary to the orders of the House. The utmost extent to which the House carried their indulgence, was to allow members to refresh their memories occasionally by a recurrence to notes.Mr. Bankes
 said, that the House having allowed the Bill to proceed thus far, were in justice bound to hear evidence in support of it. If the witnesses did not prove corrupt practices, then the bill would fall to the ground; but if they substantiated these corrupt practices, there would be good ground for extending the franchise.Sir C. Burrell
 was next called in and examined. His evidence tended to prove, that previous to the year 1807 there had been an organized system of bribery and corruption in the borough, but that during the last ten years it had most materially diminished. He had never known the bribery oath put to the electors except in 1802. The demand of it at that time caused no very great sensation. Being asked to re-consider his answer, he replied, that he supposed himself to know what the examiner alluded to; it was the circumstance that the commissioner, appointed to administer the bribery oath to the electors, administered the oath of the returning officer to them, instead of the proper oath against bribery and corruption.William Rawlins
l337l336†lll335L334 contended, that the hon. member had mistaken the point about the hand-bills; two cases only were attempted against the petitioner, and neither of them were made out.l337l336†lll335L334Mr. Holford
 opposed the Speaker's leaving the chair, on the ground that the House was proceeding without any principle being settled. It was a contradiction in terms to say that a principle could not be defined. In the case of Grampound it was clear, but here no facts had been established; and if the House went into the committee, it would run the risk of exposing itself to a decision which it might at some future time have great reason to regret.Mr. Barham
 referred to certain handbills which were wanting, and which would have completed the chain.Mr. Denison
333 said, the committee did
333Mr. Denison
 urged, that no parliamentary ground had been laid for the bill: no resolution of the committee or special report was before the House; and the hon. mover had not condescended to give any reason for the measure he had introduced.Mr. Manning
, member for Penryn, in a tone of voice quite inaudible in the gallery, continued for some time to read a speech, till he was called to order bySir C. Hawkins
347 said, that so far from all the master-weavers agreeing that the Spitalfields act had been beneficial in its operation, the very first witness examined, Mr. Stephen Wilson, who stated himself largely concerned in the manufacture of Spitalfields goods, was of opinion it had been highly injurious to Spitalfields. This witness had stated several instances of the mischievous consequences of the interference between masters and workmen in Spitalfields. The necessary consequence of interference was, the rendering the magistrate the judge of the reward of the workman, who could know nothing at all of the work. It had been said, that the Spitalfields act had produced quiet. Why, it had produced the quiet of death—the manufacture had been driven from Spitalfields to Cheshire, and if the Spitalfields act were introduced into Cheshire, it would be driven out of Cheshire. Nothing could more decidedly injure these manufactures than to interfere between the masters and their labourers. Nor indeed could he see any reason why labour should not be just as fair a commodity of sale and purchase, as any thing else sold or bought in this country. Why should they introduce a different principle in regard to the wages or price of labour than they adopted in regard to any other matter of sale? His hon. friend proposed to raise that price. And if he did, what would be the consequence? Why, that they would destroy the manufactory altogether. The arguments of his hon. friend seemed to be directed rather against the corn laws generally, than against any thing else. The house well knew that he (Mr. P.) was no friend to the corn bill. All attempts to alter the poor laws had only tended to aggravate the evils complained of. Any real relief to be now extended could only be attained by breaking up a system which had done so much to undermine
347Mr. Philips
355ll354l observed, that so far from coinciding in the views taken by the hon. gentleman with respect to the most proper application of the sinking fund, he considered them highly objectionable, and the more so, from the manner in which they had been brought forward and embodied into the present motion. The effect of it would be to fetter the discretion of government in providing for the financial exigencies of the country, and impose upon them certain terms without reference to the circumstances of our situation. The first motion which the hon. member had had in contemplation at least comprised a distinct and definite object. The present, involving the same principles and arguments, was altogether uncertain and indefinite, and could be productive of no possible advantage. By the act of 1786, a power already existed of taking the course which the hon. gentleman had recommended; and the commissioners were authorized, if it should appear expedient, to apply the sinking fund in aid of the service of the year. It would not, however, in his opinion, be wise to make it compulsory on them to apply it in this manner. He knew that it was a question on which much diversity of sentiment existed; but as to the case of the loan in 1815, and the saving of 2,000,000355ll354lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
ll356 said, he had felt somewhat startled at the hon. mover's proposition, conceiving that the system which he recommended would be productive of many fluctuations and false alarms in the money market. If the present plan should be departed from, no one would know what to look forward to in the following year. A dangerous precedent would have been established, and a future chancellor of the exchequer might be tempted to continue providing for the public service in the same way. In the present financial 6tate of the country, we ought to look our difficulties in the face. The regular application of the sinking fund might be convenient, but it would endanger the revenue, and render the necessity of retrenchment less obvious. If such a proceeding, however, were modified, and limited to a particular exigency, he should not oppose it. There was one difficulty under which we laboured, as he believed that all were agreed in the propriety of the recommendation contained in the report of the Bank committee: he alluded to the necessity of putting the Bank into possession of its own means, with a view
ll356Mr. Wilson
365364363 rose, to move for leave to bring in a bill to prevent enlistments, and equipments of vessels for foreign service. Every state, he observed was at liberty to set restrictions on its subjects to prevent them from entering into the service of other states for the purpose of warfare. The law of our country on this subject, founded on a statute of Geo. 2nd, made it an offence amounting to a felony to enter into the service of a foreign state. The object of that law was, to prevent his majesty's subjects from engaging in the service of any state at war with another state with which he was not at war. But it was important to the country, that if neutrality was to be preserved, it should be preserved between states that claimed to themselves the right to act as states, as well as between those that were acknowledged to be states. The words
365364363The Attorney General
370369 protested against the: introduction of the political topics with which the hon. and learned gentleman had filled his speech—a speech which while it professed to advocate the principles of neutrality, was as far from the spirit of neutrality as any that he had ever heard in that House. He would appeal to the House and the country—who he trusted, too well understood what the principles of neutrality and the character and honour of the nation required, to be deceived by the sophistry of the hon. and learned gentleman—whether they would depart from that regard which they owed to an acknowledged and friendly state, by allowing our subjects openly to take part with its enemies. With regard to the law as it formerly stood, he would say nothing; the policy of repealing the statutes of Geo. 2nd, referred to, even the hon. and learned gentleman admitted. He (lord Castlereagh) conceded to him that these statutes were not so much intended to secure a neutral conduct, as directed against a species of armament which threatened this country. But as his hon. and learned friend had moved for the repeal, it was thought proper to bring in a bill to uphold our neutrality, and to prevent the subjects of this country from entering into a service injurious to an acknowledged state. This law was necessary to prevent us from giving cause of war to Spain against us; and he was sure that the House was too just and generous to think, that because Spain was weak, and because her fortunes had declined, we ought therefore to permit her to be oppressed, and to do that which we would not have done if she were in other circumstances. He would ask the hon. and learned gentleman himself, whether, if common justice was not sufficient, it was not our duty to carry into effect the intentions which we professed? Was not the proclamation issued about eighteen months ago approved of, both in this country and America, as perfectly just in the principles of neutrality which it declared? And was it not a breach of that proclamation, when not only individuals whom perhaps it would not have been impossible to restrain, not only officers in small numbers went cut to join the insurgent corps, but
370369Lord Castlereagh
372 said, that the penalty of the former acts was by far too severe, and that, in consequence of their severity, they had become a dead letter on the statute-book. His hon. and learned friend, however, (sir J. Mackintosh) who was so well acquainted with history, was wrong, he thought, in supposing that they owed their origin to a design to prevent the formation of Jacobite armies. Before the 9th, and still more before the 29th, of Geo. II., all apprehension from the Jacobites had ceased. He believed that the statutes in question were rather intended to prevent British subjects from becoming soldiers of fortune in the service of other
372Mr. Wynn
373 said, he was convinced that his hon. friends who spoke against the measure, expressed the sentiments of nine-tenths of the people of the united kingdom. Were we, whose boast it was to value freedom, and whose duty it was to extend its influence in every part of the globe, to sacrifice our character by restraining the efforts of those patriots in rescuing themselves from a bondage imposed on them for centuries? If the real object was neutrality, let the restrictions as they affected Spain, be repealed altogether, and let it be open to the people to give their services to whichever party they pleased: the public feeling on the question would then be manifest. It was
373Colonel Davies
 said, it was not intended that the measure before the House should be retrospective.Lord Castlereagh
374, of Galway, observed, that be certainly should vote for the bill, and he should do so, even were he in the habit of offering up his earnest prayers day by day and night by night, for the success of the South Americans, and the emancipation of that continent from the thraldom of Spain. But, whatever his opinion as an individual might be, as a member of parliament he was bound to view the question, as it affected the policy and interests of this country. That policy was on all sides admitted to be neutrality.
374Mr. Martin
371 contended, that if this measure was now justifiable, we were
371Mr. George Lamb
 said, that the returns which had been read by the hon. member, stated that the prosecutions and compromises under the excise laws had been few, and the expences comparatively trifling. It gave him pleasure to hear this; but he was surprised that those returns on one part of the question had been furnished, while others had been refused. In a few days he would take an opportunity of moving for some other documents on this subject.Mr. D. W. Harvey
357 said, that he understood the hon. mover to have argued, not that the commissioners, if subscribers for the loans, would have procured for the public the profit which arose from the events of war or peace; but that they would have retained for the public that regular premium which the contractors obtained independently of the events of peace or war—which they were entitled to for undertaking the risk of such extensive undertakings, but which of course, under the present plan, was lost to the public. In that opinion he heartily concurred, as he could not conceive the advantage which could arise from giving the commissioners sums to lay out in the purchase of stock, while sellers were sent by the government to supply them with the stock which they were to buy. The contractors for the loan brought their stock to market just in the same degrees as the commissioners purchased it: they did not dispose of it in the mass, but brought it weekly and daily to market to provide for their instalments. Any gentleman who supposed that if process did not go on, it would be in the power of the jobbers to make hard terms with the sellers of stock, must have been perfectly ignorant of the stock market [Hear! hear!], for competition was no where carried to such an extent, and no where operated with more benefit to the public. His hon. friend had alluded to the opinion which he (Mr. Ricardo) had given before the chancellor of the exchequer in 1814. He had certainly then given the opinion which he had long entertained. He should have shrunk into the earth before those who had long known his sentiments if he had given any other; but he knew that those gentlemen who gave a contrary opinion, had given it just as conscientiously; for great and sincere differences of judgment on this subject existed in the city. To him it certainly appeared, that if the process of the sinking fund had an effect on the stock market, a similar process must produce an effect on all other markets in the country, and that, for instance, it must be contended that the chancellor of the exchequer could produce an effect
357Mr. Ricardo
 while he lamented the state of great distress in which the ribbon and silk weavers were placed, contended, that of all the measures which it was possible to devise on the subject, none could be so generally prejudicial as that recommended by the hon. gentleman.Mr. Davenport
 said, that having acted as a magistrate in the neighbourhood in question, he must declare that the distress was now arrived at such a pitch that he really believed the most alarming consequences would ensue, if some steps were not immediately taken. Though he was reluctant to interfere between the master and workmen, he considered the present a peculiar case. All the petitioners sought for was, to be placed on the same footing as workmen in the metropolis.Mr. Dugdale
343ll 342, in answer to the remark of the right hon. president of the board of trade, that the great object of the bill moved for by his hon. colleague, was to extend the interference of the legislature with respect to the wages of labour in the silk trade of London and Dublin to the silk trade generally, and that he saw nothing in the circumstances of the silk trade different from those of any other trade, which rendered the adoption of such a measure expedient, maintained that the silk trade was peculiarly circumstanced. In the first place, there were excessive duties on the raw material. The right hon. gentleman had talked of general principles; but was it a good general principle to lay a heavy duty on the raw material of any manufacture? It was very well to argue in favour of general principles; but it was sometimes necessary to look at the suite of particular cases. If parliament had always acted on general principles, the present application would have been unnecessary. It was because they had departed in some instances from general principles—it was because they had adopted, in some instances, temporary expedients, that other expedients became indispensable to correct the evils of the former. He maintained that his hon. colleague and himself had a right to call on the House to adopt some expedient to prevent their constituents from starving; as the House had adopted expedients to relieve the distresses of the constituents of the representatives of the landed interest. One of the right hon. gentleman's arguments, though urged against the measure, was, in his opinion, decidedly in its favour. He had said, that when in 1809 the manufacturers were in the same state, a committee of that House had declared they must look for relief from the change which time would bring. But that relief had never arrived. And so great was their present distress, that relief, in some way or other, was absolutely necessary. If the mode proposed, was an improper one, he entreated the House or government to point out some other course by
343ll 342Mr. Ellice
 thought there would be a difficulty in going into a committee, until the chancellor of the exchequer made known his plan of finance. This difficulty was increased by the manner in which the motion had been brought forward, If the question was for appropriating the sinking fund of the year to any loan which might be necessary for the public service, he would agree to it, as he did not think the chancellor of the exchequer had answered the expectations of the country, who thought that after four years of peace they would be relieved from the great pressure which they had borne during the war. But if the hon. member opposite meant, by increasing the income of the country, that any new tax was to be introduced, he would oppose such a measure to the utmost of his power.Mr. Ellice
 said, that he could not profess any desire to maintain the neutrality for which the noble lord was so very solicitous, as he had no hesitation in avowing that he was a decided friend to the cause and object of the people of South America. Though the present measure was one of apparent neutrality, it was an act of real favour to one of the parties, and of hostility to the other. He would therefore watch it with severe jealousy. The government of this country had acted inconsistently; for either they had encouraged British subjects to embark in the American cause, or why had they not prevented them by adopting this measure sooner? He would ask the noble lord whether he did not know that upwards of 5,000 perhaps nearly 10,000, persons from this country had engaged in the naval and military forces of the insurgent states? Were all these subject to the penalties of the proposed law. Would the noble lord send out a fleet to the Pacific, to bring home the 3 or 4,000 seamen who were now on board the vessels of the new republic? He rose to express his dissent from the bill, and to declare that at every stags he would give it his decided opposition.Mr. Ellice
 stated, that a very large number of his constituents were deeply interested in this question. He had himself carefully read over the evidence given before the committee appointed to examine the Coventry petitions last year; but the evil appeared to him, not to arise from the causes to which it was traced by his hon. friend, but from the half-pay apprentice system. He hoped the house would not be induced to apply to evils professedly temporary, a remedy which must be permanent.Mr. E. Littleton
341340§ could assure the hon. gentleman, that no man sympathised more deeply than himself with the individuals whom the hon. gentleman represented, and whose condition that hon. gentleman had done his duty in laying before the House. Entertaining that feeling, as he did, it was with great regret he found himself under the absolute necessity of declaring, that in his opinion, the measure proposed by the hon. gentleman was not calculated to remove the evil. If he understood the hon. gentleman his principal object was to extend to the silk trade in general the existing legislative regulations, respecting the wages of persons employed in that trade in London and Dublin. Objecting to the principle of such a proposition, he should be acting unjustly, were he not to take the earliest opportunity of expressing his sense of its impropriety. He was sure the hon. gentleman would not be disposed to deny, that on all general principles by which such matters ought to be regulated in a commercial country like Great Britain, it was inexpedient to allow the wages of labourers, of whatever denomination, to be settled by any other means than by the natural demand for their labour. Indeed, he was almost ashamed to use so trite and acknowledged a principle—a principle maintained by every able writer on the subject of political economy; and which received a farther confirmation by the recorded opinion of a committee of that House, appointed in 1809, to investigate grievances in the cotton trade, similar to those now represented to exist in that of silk. The committee to which he alluded came to an early and unanimous resolution "That the committee had taken into their serious consideration the proposition for passing an act, establishing a reform in the wages of per-
341340§Mr. F. Robinson
lll said, that whatever might be the opinion of gentlemen on the proposition now before the House, all who heard the discussion this night must, he thought, be convinced of this—that in the fourth year of peace, with a debt of 800,000,000lllMr. Callaghan
346 resisted the introduction of the bill, because he thought it would set an example to the cloth-weaver, the linen-weaver, and indeed all classes of manufacturers, to come forward with unwarrantable demands. If the principle now contended for could be introduced—if magistrates on all occasions could settle the amount of wages—there would be no
346Mr. Stuart-Wortley
345ds344dss said, he felt some difficulty in delivering his sentiments on this subject; for to all the maxims of trade laid down by the two right hon. gentlemen opposite, no answer could be given. All legislative attempts to compel men to be prosperous under pains and penalties, ended in folly and oppression. But the maxims of the right hon. gentlemen did not apply to Coventry; for Coventry was now employed in a most unnatural and artificial trade. By whom were the wages of the workmen of Coventry paid? By the parishes. A skilful workman, after working sixteen hours a day, and aided by machinery which was his own property, could only earn 10345ds344dssMr. Fowell Buxton
 was happy to find that remedies were to be applied to the grievances complained of. He was not present when a motion was last made on this, subject; but if he had, he would have felt it his duty to oppose that motion. With respect to the solicitor of the excise, he could say, that as far as he had the pleasure of knowing him, he was as honourable and upright a man, as any in the community. He would attend to the bill in its different stages, and he had no doubt but great benefit would be derived from it to the public. As long as it was necessary to continue this tax, the excise laws to be effective must be vigorous.Mr. Calcraft
 suggested to his hon. friend the propriety of withdrawing his motion. In its present state, the House was unable to extend relief to sufferings which he was sure it compassionated. If, therefore, his hon. friend would amend his bill, on his again bringing it in, parliament would feel disposed to further and assist his views. By doing so, he would convince his constituents, that there was a decided feeling in the house in their favour, although, from the present state of the bill, it could not grant that relief which it was called upon to do.Mr. Curwen
l358§ said, that his hon. friend had added one to the many obligations he had already conferred on the country, by bringing forward this question. It was objected that the motion had no definitive object, and at the same time it was said, that it would be improper to decide upon it at present, as it would fetter the chancellor of the exchequer in his financial plans for the year. He thought the House had heard enough to show that this subject was one which called for their most mature consideration. It puzzled him exceedingly, to understand how any benefit could be derived from borrowing money,
l358§Mr. J. P. Grant
 hoped the fisheries would be relieved from the heavy obstructions that now existed against their making use of salt.Mr. Tremayne
353llllll352llll351lllll 350349ll348, in rising to call the attention of the House to the motion he was about to submit, said, he did not regret that from various causes it had been postponed from day to day; because the delay which had taken place had permitted him to acquire far-
353llllll352llll351lllll 350349ll348Mr. Grenfell
360 rose to reply. He had heard a good deal said of the effect which the purchases by the commissioners of the sinking fund had in keeping the price
360Mr. Grenfell
, in reply, observed, that Mr. Stephen Wilson, the witness alluded to by an hon. gentleman, was an exporter and a capitalist, who, of consequence, was only interested in obtaining goods at a cheap rate for exportation, and had no concern with the manner in which the workman was paid. But when goods were exported at a cheap rate by means of paying workmen out of the poor-rates, we were only making the people of the continent a present of all that was taken from the poor-rates. He had done what he considered his duty, in endeavouring, as far as possible, to remedy the evils of the system which prevailed in Coventry. Leaving it to the responsible ministers of the crown, to take some measures to save that city from starvation, he should, as such was the sense of the House, withdraw his motion for the present. The motion was then withdrawn.Mr. Peter Moore
339dssdsd ss338ss presented two petitions, one from the mayor and corporation of Coventry, stating the distresses under which the ribbon weavers of that place were now suffering, and praying that their case might be taken into consideration by the House; and another from the employers of the ribbon-weavers, corroborating the statements and concurring in the prayer of the former petition. These distresses originated in the reduced wages which were now paid to the ribbon weavers; and the petitioners in order to give the House some idea of their extent and magnitude, declared that they were obliged to pay in poor rates, by which the weavers were almost entirely supported, 45339dssdsd ss338ssMr. Peter Moore
 said, that if there was one species of interposition more injudicious than another, it was that which had for its object to dictate to the master the rate of wages he was to pay his servant. No case of particular exception had been made out; and as to the case of Spitalfields, he thought that it would have been much better, if, instead of an enactment, recourse had been had to the vigour of the law, and the authority of the magistrates. He approved of that part of the bill which related to half-pay apprentices; but he could not on that account consent to adopt the rest, which was so highly objectionable.Mr. Wallace
362llll.; rose to move for leave to bring in a bill, to alter and amend the salt revenue laws. On a former occasion it had been stated to the House, that the number of prosecutions for breaches of the salt laws were numerous and severe; and that the number of compromises under these prosecutions, amounted to 3,000, for which large sums had been paid. From the papers which had been moved for on that occasion, it appeared, however, that the total number in three years was 13, the charge on which was 357362llll.;Mr. Wallace
 said, he did not mean to occupy the attention of the House (more than a few minutes in giving his opinion on this question. The hon. member called upon them to go into a committee on the sinking fund act, but he had not stated what course of proceeding they were to adopt; he had not even given an opinion on that point. By the act, as it now stood, the commissioners were empowered to subscribe to any loan for the public service, if they thought proper. There certainly existed a great difference of opinion as to the propriety of the commissioners so subscribing to any loan; many thought that it would be right, and others that it would be wrong of them to do so. But surely the House was not prepared to go into a committee to make it imperative on the commissioners to dispose of the sinking fund in this manner. And if so, to what purpose was a committee proposed? Much had been said of the loss sustained by the country, from not having so applied the sinking fund, but it was impossible to come to any decision on such a complicated question as this was, by arguing on abstract grounds; any such arguments must always lead to fallacious conclusions. He hoped the House would perceive the necessity of leaving the commissioners of the sinking fund free and unfettered, to apply it as may conduce most to the public interest. On these grounds, and on the ground that nothing definitive had been proposed by the hon. member who made the motion, and that acceding to it would fetter the chancellor of the exchequer in his measure of finance for the year, he felt it his duty to oppose it.Mr. Huskisson
368367366 said, that if he could consider the present measure of his hon. and learned friend, merely as the introduction of a reform into our criminal legislation, he would not, on the present occasion, have made a single remark; or if he had, would merely have expressed his approbation of the proposed amendment of the law. The repeal of the two statutes of the 9th and 29th George 2nd, which constituted the entrance into the service of a foreign government a felony, he highly approved of; and he might, if they had not now been brought into discussion by his hon. and learned friend, have felt it his duty to have brought them soon under the notice of the House. They were founded merely on temporary circumstances, and enacted penalties which were revolting to humanity, and which, therefore, now could never be inflicted. His hon. and learned friend had given to these statutes a general character, as applying to all times and circumstances; but if he had looked into history, he would have seen that they were intended merely for temporary purposes; namely, to prevent the formation of Jacobite armies, organized in Spain and France, against the peace of this country. Though his hon. and learned friend, however, had endeavoured to disguise the subject, and to keep out of view the immediate objects which the measure was intended to serve, it was impossible to mistake its general character, or to avoid seeing its evident tendency. It was indeed a measure of temporary policy, affecting deeply the character and interests of the country, and requiring the most
368367366Sir James Mackintosh
 said, the noble lord had stated, that the government of this country had postponed the proposed measure until the mediation between Spain and the South American provinces had terminated. In that assurance he did not concur with the noble lord. He was rather disposed to believe, that ministers had waited until they found that the negotiations of Spain with the United States of America had ended in a cession of territory to the latter. He should not go into the subject then, but feeling as he did, that it was a most important question—a question on which the opinion of the country was more decidedly made up than perhaps on any other political topic, he should give it his opposition in every stage of its progress.Sir J. Newport
 believed the interests of the country were never more concerned than in the issue of the South-American cause. Any measure likely to operate against its success was most injudicious; and from information he spoke when he stated, that an armament was now preparing to sail from Spain against Monte Video. The nature of our commercial connexion in that quarter of the world was too important to be overlooked, or hazarded by any injudicious interference.Sir W. De Crespigny
a priori, said, that the House would remember, that when, five years ago, a similar proposition to the present one was brought forward, the chancellor of the exchequer was not so much disinclined to it as he was at present. He allowed that it was difficult to argue, a priori,Lord Althorp
376 contended, that the principle of the bill must be respected in every country where property was respected. The principle was this—that where a man had property he should have power and control over it. The game laws, as they now stood, were perfectly nugatory; they gave to persons warranted to kill game, powers which no man had a right to possess; they gave to persons so warranted the power of going into a gentleman's plantations and destroying his game; they gave that power for once—if the offence was repeated, then the person was liable to be punished. But for what?—not for killing game, but for trespassing. Nor was it a trifling injury to the game of a gentleman, that adventurers had the right of so entering on his plantations, even for the first time. The hon. baronet who last sat down, knew that a trespass of that kind ruined the shooting for the rest of the season. Besides, it should be recollected, as an intolerable grievance, that persons from distant places, whose names could not, in many instances, be learned, were not contented with thus trespassing on private property—trespass he would call it, though the law did not—but they also outraged the feelings of the proprietor if he attempted to protect his property from injury and intrusion. The property of men of moderate fortune should be equally protected with that of those rich and influencial men, who procured laws to punish offences which their monopoly created. Copyhold holders of land could have no game, unless by having a qualified keeper; and was it to be tolerated that such distinction should be still continued? There was no difficulty in selling game, however contrary to law, so inefficiently did it operate. Why, then, should it be longer continued? The feelings of the people were hostile to the principle of the game laws; and laws opposed to the common sense of justice and of right should not be continued. Poor men were imprisoned for killing game; and though convicted, as if of crime, their neighbours and the country still held them wholly innocent. He valued the possession of game, and had as much of it as most men; but he would still contend, that with the increase of game poaching increased, and that the whole system was only protected by force of arms. He should therefore be ashamed to stand up in his place and support a system, so demoralising and so destructive
376Sir John Sebright
 also supported the bill, and maintained that those gentlemen to whom the kingdom was most indebted as magistrates, did not reside in the country only because they could enjoy the diversion of shooting, but because they delighted in making themselves useful as well as in the amusements of rural retirement. There was no danger that the English gentry would forsake their properties, because their neighbours as well as themselves had a right to shoot. The existing laws were both absurd and odious; at least, absurd and odious in many of their provisions; and the object of the measure before the House was to repeal what was objectionable, while it retained all that could be of advantage. No man enjoyed fox-hunting more than himself; he pursued it with the utmost ardour; but it was undeniable that that very ardour was the occasion of the destruction of much valuable property belonging to those who could ill afford the loss. The effect of this bill would be, to make game a marketable commodity, and it was ridiculous to argue that it would thereby become scarce. Were there not plenty of rabbits and wild fowl in the country, although every poulterer might buy and sell them in any quantity? One third of the property of this country was in the hands of persons who had no means of obtaining game but by purchase; and while this was the case, all laws prohibiting the sale were vain, and could only lead to the practice of poaching. Poaching, as was well known, was the parent of all crimes. Would they, then, by the continuance of a system which necessarily led to poaching, place the poor of this country in a state of degradation still lower than they were now in?Mr. Long Wellesley
377 contended, that the question was not whether there were evils under the present system, but whether those evils would not be increased by the present bill. It was well known what a number of disputes arose at present, from attempts to decoy game from one property to another. But the present bill would produce twenty persons desirous of preserving game in place of one; and a
377Mr. E. Douglas
378 could not allow this question to go to a division, without giving his cordial assent to the principle of the bill. He really could not see what there was objectionable in that principle. It was impossible for gentlemen to disguise from themselves, that the present game laws were an intolerable grievance. That the increase of poaching had been their only effect, he held in his hand some returns, which, if the House would permit him to read, would strongly demonstrate. They were returns of the number of committals in Bedford, the small county which he had the honour to represent, for offences against the game laws during the last ten years. In 1809, there were four; in 1810 two; in 1811 four; in 1812 five; in 1813 five; in 1814 thirteen; in 1815 twenty-four; in 1816
378The Marquis of Tavistock
lll381 said, he was of opinion,
lll381Lord Clifton
 said, that this was a bill, not so much to amend the game laws, as to make game of the constitution. He was astonished that certain gentlemen on the other side bad kept their seats so long, instead of rising to give their opinions on this measure. This was any thing but a game bill, or a moral bill—it was a bill of a most dangerous tendency, as it went to put arms into the hands of all classes of people in the country. Such a measure ought to be looked to with great jealousy, and he was surprised not to have heard the opinions of his majesty's grave and learned counsel upon it. If this bill were carried, it would be necessary to keep up an additional force of 12,000 men, to provide against the danger to which it would subject the country.General Grosvenor
 thought the game laws, as they now stood, were nothing less than an oppression of the poor for the convenience and comfort of the rich. He trusted those statutes would not long hold out against the increasing liberality of the times. He fully concurred with the principle of the bill then before the House; but there was one clause in it to which he had a decided objection—it was that which went to legalise the sale of game. If this clause were altered, he would support the bill; but, as he understood it was considered essentially necessary, he felt himself bound to support the amendment.The Marquis of Titchfield
386 was next examined. He was editor of the newspaper published in Cornwall, called "The West Briton." After the election of Penryn, Mr. Anderdon had an interview wish him, and a
386Edward Budd
379 rose, he said, with great hesitation to express his opinion on this bill. It must have occurred to every one, that it was from its nature impossible to put game under the same ascertained regulations and laws as other property. The honourable gentleman discussed the policy of the bill, which he thought not merely questionable, but in direct opposition to the interests of those whom they were called upon to protect: in particular, adverting to some of the clauses against the extreme severity of which he protested, he observed, that an hon. member who had most considered the subject, and was remarkable for his general character of humanity and feeling, had confessed, that if they erased those clauses, although thus severe, he could not carry his object into execution. If this bill passed into a law, all the enjoyment of sporting would be considerably cramped and diminished; its effect would be, that at no distant period game would become incredibly scarce; and one consequence of thus distinctly recognizing it as private property would be, that the clergy would claim their tithes upon it. Certainly they would claim every tenth pheasant and partridge. Strenuously as he opposed this bill however, if the principle of it
379Mr. George Bankes
 opposed the bill. The learned gentleman opposite had defended the principle of the bill, by arguing, that poachers did not at present look on game as private property, and that if it were once understood to be property, it would be as much respected as poultry and pigs. He differed entirely in opinion from the learned gentleman. In that part of the country where he had the honour to act as a magistrate, whenever he had found a man robbing a hen-roost or a pig-sty, he had always discovered that that man was a notorious poacher. If poachers were conscious that game was as much property as any thing else, a moral feeling would not restrain them from committing depredations on it.Mr. H. Sumner
Te Deum380 complained, that the principal points in his son's argument had been overlooked, or left unanswered, in the speech of his hon. friend. The operation of the bill now before the House would be to increase poaching in a tenfold degree. He could see nothing in the provision respecting licenses that would in the slightest degree tend to repress it.
Te Deum380Mr. Henry Bankes
 was the next witness. He described himself as an attorney at Truro, much in the habit of attending the elections for Cornwall. He was pretty generally consulted as to the right of voting according to the constitution of the several boroughs in that country. Among other places he had been at Penryn at the last election, where he had heard that sir M. Lopez was invited to become a candidate. The Penryn breakfast he understood to mean a pledge or promise of 24 guineas to any voter who would support two candidates. Had heard of some dissatisfaction with respect to Mr. Swann for not giving any public breakfast; but he did not believe that any candidate could be returned for Penryn by means of money [a laugh.]. If such a man as Mr. Sewell, however, would introduce a candidate with money to the electors that introduction would, no doubt, have great weight. Witness believed, but he could not state with certainty, that there were from 8 to 900 freeholders in the two adjacent hundreds.John Edwards
384 rose to reply. He said, that most of the objections he had heard had been directed against particular clauses; but he had heard none of any weight against the principle of the bill. There was one objection which he had heard with
384Mr. Brand
 having moved the order of the day for farther considering the report on this bill,Mr. Brand
 said, it was pretended that this bill tended to increase, rather than diminish game, a proposition which he could not assent to, because the bill went to increase the number of destroyers. He thought the morals of the people would be injured rather than improved by it. He conceived their morals would be better improved by the residence of gentlemen of property on their estates in the country, to which the exclusive privilege of destroying game was a principal inducement.Mr. Alderman Heygate
 said, that whatever might be the views which he had taken of the subject, he had been satisfied of one thing—that his hon. young friend who had just sat down, had exhibited very great sagacity and much talent in the way in which he had considered the question. He only wished that he had spoken in a better cause. It was a well-known process of persuasion which the mind employed with itself, to shut itself against all the arguments on one side of a question, and to receive all those on the other side. His hon. friend had quite overlooked the fact, that there were in this country a very great number of persons who would have game on their tables, by some means or other; therefore they must either provide those persons with the means of obtaining that game, or they must leave the public exposed to the operation of all the crime and guilt by which it was at present procured. He well remembered that Dr. Franklin could not, it was said, look upon sugar without reflecting on the blood, the cruelty, and the anguish by which it was prepared, and with which its preparation was accompanied; now the same idea struck him, and he thought must strike every person, at the sight of game on the tables of those, who were, by consuming it, encouraging, perhaps unconsciously, the criminal practices of the poacher. It was manifest to him, that with the increasing wealth of the country, there must be an increased temptation to commit this offence. The House should recollect also, that in legislating on this subject, they might be considered as contending for their own interests, and against the interests of the community. He sincerely hoped that some change would be made in the present system of game laws, a change that would permit the fair indulgence of hospitality, and be less injurious to the practice of morality.Mr. Wilberforce
l383 said, that at that late hour he should not trouble the House at much length; but he thought it his duty briefly to state the grounds on which he should support the bill. They were all agreed that poaching was one of the greatest evils with which the country could be afflicted, and that it ought to be suppressed by all possible means. If he thought the present bill tended to encourage that in the slightest degree, he should certainly oppose it; but because he believed that the effect of it would be directly the reverse, he should support it. The measure went to give the tenant of the land some interest in the preservation of the game, which he considered to be the best moans of putting an end to poaching. All his experience on the subject showed him, that the tenant was at present an enemy to the preservation of the game on the land he occupied, because both the animals themselves, and the pursuit of them by strangers, injured his own crops and marred his labours. It was no profit to him, but, on the contrary, a continual source of annoyance and damage; accordingly, he rather winked at poaching than exerted himself to suppress it. It had come within his own knowledge that farmers, when wages were low, partly paid their labourers by allowing them to poach on their land at night. By the measure proposed, every tenant on a gentleman's estate would be made a game keeper. The game was, in effect, by this bill, made the property of the owner of the soil; as it vested the property in the occupier, with a power to the landlord to make an exception of it in the lease. The indifference of the people as to obeying or enforcing obedience to the existing game laws, proceeded from the opinion that it was common property: with this impression on his mind, the poor man felt that it was as just to impose penalties on the consumption of water or air as on the taking of game: he thought that what was the property of all was the peculiar property of none, and consequently looked on the game laws with no sort of respect. But if game was once made property, the people of England would look on it with the same eyes as on every other species of property. He did not mean to say that he did not think some parts of the bill objectionable; but whatever there was of that description might be removed in the committee. The principle of the bill was most excellent. He took it to be this—
l383Mr. Scarlett
 said, that he could not give his vote for this bill, because the effect of it would be to put guns into the hands of every person, and would sanction the indiscriminate slaughter of game. He did not think that the great landed proprietors would feel all the ill effects of this bill at first; and as the good it was to do was at all events speculative, he thought it much better to leave the law as it now stood. If such a theoretical measure were adopted, the sports of the field, by which the bold and manly qualities of the higher orders of the people were cherished and invigorated, would be entirely annihilated, and the country would indeed dwindle into that which it had been contemptuously asserted by Buonaparté to be—a nation of shopkeepers. He would therefore move as an amendment, that the report be taken into farther consideration on that day six months.Sir John Shelley
 approved of what had fallen from the last hon. member. The aid which the police derived from gas lights was of the greatest importance to the community. With regard to the complaints of the refuse of the gas being thrown into the river, and endangering the lives of the inhabitants of the metropolis, a clause should be introduced into the bill, ordering that the commissioners of sewers should take care that no nuisance of the kind should be suffered. Thinking that the provisions of the bill might be beneficial, he was in favour of the re-commitment.Mr. Alderman Wood
 however much he admired the gas light confessed his apprehensions and fears from some sudden derangement of the pipes or works, when perhaps nearly the whole town might be left in total darkness. We reposed too much confidence in these companies. It was advisable to draw some line between their profits and the public safety.Mr. Bennett
 confessed, that he was not very friendly either to Gas Lights, or Water Work companies—not that he was hostile to the ingenious improvements or discoveries, by which the public had derived great convenience; but his dislike arose from the way in which these companies conducted themselves. They might be termed a sort of amphibious animals, sometimes upon land, sometimes upon water. In another view, a kind of ambiguous animals, sometimes presenting fire instead of water, and sometimes water instead of fire. So that it was frequently doubtful whether the public of this great metropolis were to be exploded by fire, or overwhelmed with water. In many instances their concerns were so wretchedly directed, as to excite fears and alarms. With regard to the present bill, he thought it so defective in many particulars, that as he despaired of any satisfactory amendments in its present form, he should move the third reading on this day six months.Sir R. Fergusson
ll wished to explain to the House the part which he had had in this transaction. Soon after the return of peace, he had received several letters from captain Hanchett, on the subject of a plan for the prevention of smuggling, which displayed great ability, and which led to an interview with the writer. At that time, he knew nothing of captain Hanchett, except that he had heard his name mentioned with approbation as a naval officer. On the grounds then of captain Hanchett's merits in the service, coupled with the admiration of his letters, he solicited the interview with him: and it was with sincere pleasure that he introduced into the public service of the country, in time of peace, an officer in high estimation, on public grounds alone. Captain Hanchett discharged the duties of the office to which he was appointed, very much to the satisfaction of government, till last autumn, when he signified a wish to resign in favour of a gentleman, to whom there was no objection, that he was not of a rank to be placed over other officers who stood higher in the service. In the mean time, information was given to the treasury, that captain Hanchett had entered into a negotiation with this gentleman to receive from him 500llThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
ll457casus omissus was of opinion, that all that the hon. gentleman bad just said, amounted only to an additional reason for receiving this petition. Now, as to the alleged transaction of the secret agreement, there was no moral guilt, no actual crime, in selling a resignation; they might make it a crime, and had indeed done so, at law: but it was well known that, among officers, the sale and exchange of commissions were matters of every day occurrence. If the officer in question had been detected in taking money to pervert the duties of his office, then indeed he would have been guilty of a moral crime, of a crime too against the public. It did not appear that in this instance the transaction would have prejudiced the public service. The hon. gentleman opposite had said, that it was not included in the provisions of Mr. Perceval's bill-a bill which was brought in after the commission of what was, beyond doubt, a very corrupt act—an act which was proved against Mr. Perceval himself, and a noble lord who was now sitting opposite; yet upon that occasion the House did not think proper to allow the slightest expression of its disapprobation to be recorded. The hon. gentleman had been pleased to consider this before the House as a ll457casus omissusSir Francis Burdett
 said, there was an objection to the printing of the petition independently of its length. It contained a severe charge against a member, which should not be circulated until its truth was inquired into.Mr. N. Culvert
l said, that the denial of captain Hanchett of his proposal to receive 6,000lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
462461 rose. He claimed the indulgence of the House now, as having on former occasions, in obedience to its wishes, postponed his opposition to the bill until its present stage. He did not feel quite satisfied with its object, which being only the extension of the elective franchise to some 800 freeholders, over the five or six hundred electors of Barnstaple, was not sufficient, he feared, to guard the public against the recurrence of similar events. The mere addition of this number of voters would not, he thought of itself resist the machinations of such a Lothario as sir Manasseh Masseh Lopez. He saw no reason why they should restore to the freemen—freemen they were not—to the salesmen, he should say of Barnstaple, their elective franchise. It was a restoration that was, in effect only the reward of guilt. A fine opportunity was now presented for what he would call, an elementary system of reform. His proposition was, either that one of the counties at present inadequately represented, should have in addition the two members it returned, or that the electors of Barnstaple should be allowed to vote only in the election of the knights of the shire. Since the time of Edward 1st, about sixty boroughs had been created
462461Sir Robert Wilson
 said, he had in the case of Helston, suggested the propriety of transferring the franchise to the West Riding of Yorkshire, because all the borough had participated in the benefit of the corrupt bargain proved to have then taken place. In Barnstaple, many electors had not participated in the corrupt practices; he therefore thought, that the present proposal for infusing healthy blood into the borough v. as more just than a bill to divest it altogether of its franchise. He approved too, in the present instance, of the clause to prevent the making non-resident honorary freemen, as the purpose of the bill might be otherwise defeated by the corporation. He suggested that all persons hereafter obtaining their freedom by any means, should not be allowed to vote unless resident.Mr. Wynn
 approved of the bill before the House. There was no other borough in the four hundreds in question, so that that part of the country would not have an undue share of representatives. The proposal of his gallant friend might be less objectionable as applied to Penryn. The bill which he proposed to introduce was objectionable, if not on other grounds on account of the anomaly, that one member would be left seated for Barnstaple on the old, and one returned for Leeds on the new plan.Sir J. Newport
, of Galway, proposed, that the bill should be re-committed, to examine evidence, and ascertain how far corruption had prevailed in the borough.Mr. Martin
 said, it did not appear that the whole corporation had been infected with corruption, and therefore he would not inflict a more severe punishment than had been thought necessary in other cases. If the House would consent to recommit the bill, he would move the introduction of certain words which should go to transfer the elective franchise to gentlemen who had freeholds in the neighbourhood, and who were also resident in the borough.Mr. V. Blake
464ll said, that the public entertained great expectations that some measure of reform would be adopted, and regarded the present question as a test of the virtue of the House. It was a notorious fact, that corrupt practices prevailed to a great extent, not only in Barnstaple, but in many other places. The elective franchise ought to be considered as a public not a private right, to be exercised for general and not for personal advantage. It could not be denied that our representative system was one of great inequality, that Middlesex, Essex, and Lancashire had not their fair proportion, and that Cornwall sent as many members to that House as thirteen other counties. It was incumbent on them to show a disposition to correct this evil when an occasion was presented, and a gross abuse had been detected. Whatever might be the danger to be apprehended from what were called wild and visionary schemes of reform, he thought this was the period when the House was called upon to punish those acts of corruption which were proved to exist in the return of members to serve in parliament. When the abuses which were known to exist in the different boroughs in Cornwall were spoken of, they were laughed at; yet there was scarcely a member in the House who had not heard of those boroughs being offered for sale, and a price being fixed upon them. He had himself lately heard a gentleman complain, that notwithstanding the depreciation of property generally, the electors of one of those boroughs were so unreasonable as to ask 30464llMr. Alderman Waithman
 animadverted on the alarm which seemed to be excited on the opposite side of the House by every proposition for a reform. He was sorry so little had been said in the course of the present session in favour of a parliamentary reform, but he hoped the subject would shortly be taken up in a proper manner. He concurred with his hon. friend who had just sat down, in the view which he took of the present bill.Mr. Alderman Wood
 supported the bill.Lord Compton
 thought it would be better that the borough should remain as it now stood, rather than it should, by an extension of the elective franchise, be thrown into the power of some few persons of the landed proprietors in the neighbourhood; as he thought that the aristocracy and landed interest of the country had already more than their due influence in returning representatives to parliament.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 declared the landed interest had no predominance in that House. He did not believe that it contained twenty members that purely represented the agricultural interest, most of the members from the agricultural counties being in fact returned by the trading interest.Mr. N. Calvert
 deprecated the idea of considering a measure of this kind in the light of its being a parliamentary reform. The noble lord who introduced the bill, had justly stated it to be for the correction of abuses which had been proved to exist. The House by adopting this measure would not, in fact, do any thing more than enforce the laws against bribery and corruption in the return of members to parliament. Whenever the question of parliamentary reform was brought forward (and he trusted that day was not far distant), he hoped he should not be found backward in redeeming the pledge which he had given to his constituents to support that measure. But here that question was not involved: parliamentary reform had nothing to do with the bill before the House. He was anxious that those abuses should be corrected, but as he conceived that the bill did not go far enough he felt himself bound to sup port the amendment.Mr. G. Lamb
 said, that the extreme length of the petition was a strong objection to the printing of it. The great length of petitions presented to the House struck at the right of petitioning itself, as it would compel the House to make some regulation to save its time. He thought it the duty of every member to impress on petitioners the necessity of compressing their statements. The facts of the petition before the House might have been stated much more briefly and intelligibly.Mr. Wynn
 contended that the bill had an inevitable tendency to increase population, and extend pauperism. The only effectual bar against improvident marriages was the difficulty which presented itself to parents, of providing for their children. Take away that bar, and improvident connexions would be formed, which would infallibly increase pauperism. Besides, the present bill was infinitely worse for children than the present system. The father at present was the only pauper; but by this plan the mind of the child would be degraded by feeling that he also was a pauper. He approved of the last clause which went to prevent the price of labour being paid out of the rates.Mr. Shepherd
 objected to the bill on two grounds; first, that it would act partially on the respectable poor of the country; and secondly, as it would give magistrates a power of taking the children of the lower classes from their parents without their consent. No greater encouragement could be given to improvidence and want of industry than this: it would also have the effect of destroying those filial and parental feelings which were the great bond of union in society. Under these impressions, he felt himself called upon to oppose the bill.Mr. Philips
 opposed the bill, and thought it had the appearance of coming from those who wished to perpetuate the present poor laws, rather than from those who were anxious gradually to abolish them.Mr. Western
 complained of the absence of ministers on so important an occasion. Though he objected to some of the clauses, he approved of the general principle, of the bill.Mr. Wynn
 approved of the bill.Mr. L. Wellesley
 objected to the hill, on account of its dragging children from their parents to bring them up at the expense of the parish.Mr. Alderman Wood
 defended the bill, and contended that the opposite arguments urged against it ought to be held to destroy each other. There was nothing of harshness in that provision of the bill which went to separate the children from their parents; as persons in a higher station submitted to such a separation from choice, and sent their offspring not merely to another part of their parish, but to distant places, and even to remote countries. He was of opinion, that the effect of this measure would be, to spare many parishes half the applications which were now made. It was to be feared the habits of the present race of labourers were so formed, that it would be no easy task to effect in them that change which could be wished, and therefore he held it to be wise that the House should look to the rising generation. In them it might be hoped they would succeed in exciting a spirit of industry and independence, which it might be too late to revive in their parents.Mr. S. Bourne
452ss, although he admired the public utility derivable from the gas lights, yet could not approve of the manner in which the companies conducted their concerns. In some cases, the gas amounted to 5452ssMr. Colclough
471 opposed the bill, principally on the ground that it tended to increase the population. If at present there existed a difficulty in supporting the poor, in what situation would the country be placed in twenty years hence, when those children so educated grew up to manhood? The
471Mr. Ricardo
 objected to the bill, as calculated to pepetuate the evils of the present system of poor laws.Mr. Primrose
453, in order to accommodate the various parties, recommended the recommitment of the bill. If the measure were a good one, and he was inclined to think it was, it would be unfortunate if the prejudices of the moment were to defeat those who had embarked so much property in the concern. The advantages derived from the application of gas were manifest. Besides the great convenience to the public, by rendering the streets,
453Mr. H. Sumner
454 said, he held in his hands a petition from John Martin Hanchett, a post captain in the royal navy, a companion of the order of the Bath, and late comptroller of the naval watch, for the prevention of smuggling. The petitioner was a person who had distinguished himself on many occasions in his profession, and was a gentleman of excellent character. He complained of having been deprived of his situation, without any adequate cause, by an hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Lushington), who had so abused the powers of his official situation for the purpose of appointing a person who had the power of furthering his political influence in the city of Canterbury. He would not injure the cause of the petitioner, which would be best understood from the petition itself. He should merely state that this honourable officer, after undergoing great fatigues in this office, by which, in addition to his former professional services, he was very much worn out, had
454Mr. Bennet
l said, that capt. Hanchett had acknowledged the fact of a consultation, for the purpose of obtaining an allowance on the resignation of his office, but he denied the fact of any thing of the 6,000lMr. Bennet
455 said, he had been aware of the official storm which would be raised against this officer; and he had cautioned him to beware how he proceeded—that he would do so with a rope round his neck,—and unless he made out his case in every respect, he would certainly lose himself. Captain Hanchett had determined to pro-
455Mr. Bennet
459lll begged to remind the House, that he had disclaimed any personal acquaintance with the petitioner, or with the facts of his case, upon presenting his petition. He had particularly warned him to advance nothing but the pure truth; and the captain had assured him, in reply, that the statement contained nothing but the truth. As to the story of the 6,000459lllMr. Bennet
 accepted the proposition; and the petition was ordered to be on the table.Mr. Bennet
469468sss467ssl466: —Mr. Speaker; It is a painful duty to oppose any measure purporting to be for the relief of the labouring classes. Viewing it as I do, as calculated to increase, rather than diminish, the burthens, as well as sufferings of the working community; I am compelled to oppose its farther progress. I am at the same time ready to do justice to the motives of my hon. friend. He contemplates the measure through the medium of his own active and benevolent attention to the children of his poor neighbours. The general working of the bill, were it passed into a law, would be very different. Fully to comprehend the consequence likely to result from this measure, it is necessary to look to the actual situation of the working orders of society. At the opening of the session, I opposed the reappointment of the committee. After its having furnished an ample detail of the misery and suffering under the existing system of poor laws, it was the duty of government to have taken the business into their own hands. Efficient relief could only come from them. It may be more convenient for a weak, divided, and unpopular administration to devolve their duties to a committee, and thereby screen themselves from the odium attending a total failure of the plans for relieving the country from the burthens that press so heavily on the community; whilst they promote neither the happiness nor comfort of those who are objects of their relief. That the public are grievously disappointed in the expectation many had formed, must be admitted. I think the blame has fallen most unjustly on the committee. Those to whom it is fairly attributable are the ministers of the Crown. Whilst the nation considers this as the most momentous question, and the one that presses hardest on them, such is the apathy and indifference of ministers, that not one of them has thought it incumbent upon them to attend or give their sentiments on the bill before us. In discussing this measure I must shortly advert to the operation of the 43rd of Elizabeth. Within one century of its passing, the demoralizing effects produced
469468sss467ssl466Mr. Curwen said
 was of opinion, that nothing but patience could remedy the evils brought on the country by the protracted war in which we had been engaged, and that all the palliatives the House could apply would prove of little avail.Mr. Mansfield
 disapproved of the bill. Until the country looked the evil fairly in the face, and taught the labourer to depend more on himself, no adequate remedy could be supplied. This measure, if passed into a law, would increase the evil. He wished a course to be taken in this country, similar to that which had been adopted in Scotland, where, if a woman had an illegitimate child, she was obliged to maintain it. What followed? She was careful not to repeat the fault she had committed, lest she should bring into the world a second. In England, women frequently threw two, three, or four children on the parish. He had hoped the hon. gentleman, in bringing in this bill, would have gone the length of declaring, "that from and after the passing of this act, no child legitimate or illegitimate should be entitled to a maintenance from the parish." Such a course, if taken, would strike at the root of the evil, and such a measure he still honed to see introduced.Mr. Hume
 said, that the labouring classes were weighed down by a heavy indirect taxation, and were therefore compelled to apply to the parish for relief. By the present system a certain sum was paid to the parent, who might apply it either to his own gratification or to the maintenance of his family. The claim set up for relief was generally the distress of the party; but it was difficult, in many cases to ascertain whether that distress was occasioned by misfortune or by imprudence. When the hardship of taking children from their parents was so much dwelt upon, as a ground for opposing the bill, it should be recollected, with how much difficulty and pain the rates were, in numerous cases, collected, and the small link there was between the person paying, and the one receiving the rate.Mr. Ridley Colborne
ll thought, that there would be just cause of complaint, if those who opposed the bill were to succeed. The gentlemen concerned in the proposed company, had already subscribed 120,000llMr. P. Moore
456ll said, if the hon. gentleman had looked into the case deliberately, he would have found that so far from the petitioner having been treated with cruelty, too much lenity had been shown him. He owed an apology to the country and to his right hon. friend near him, that this officer was not dismissed sooner; and when he stated the circumstances to the House, which were proved by evidence which he held in his hand, and the records of the Treasury, he trusted the House would be convinced that he could not suffer the petitioner to remain any longer in his situation. In August last, the petitioner proposed, in consequence of the wounds he had received in the service, to retire on a superannuation allowance. It was stated to him in answer, that he had not the least claim; that his services, as a naval officer, were quite distinct from his services in the other situation; and that as he had only been two years and a half connected with the revenue, it was impossible to allow him to superannuate. He had calculated his office worth 1,500456llMr. Lushington
458l claimed the attention of the House, because the petition contained very strong reflections upon the character of one of its members. The hon. gentleman opposite had said nothing about the affair of the 6,000458lMr. Lushington
l argued, that the letter of captain H. of the 19th of March, could only refer to this accusation of his having bargained to receive 6,000lMr. Lushington
470 said, the evil of the present
470Mr. Brand
 defended the bill, as embodying two valuable principles. It said to the labourer, "though our code of poor laws is such, that we are bound to save a poor child from starving, we shall do that in such a way as to prove that it is not intended to supply your deficiencies—that it is not done out of kindness to you. That was one important principle. The other which this measure went to establish was this—it divided wages from poor rates.Mr. T. Courtenay
bonus472 was surprised at the language which he had heard applied to this bill. Every one in the higher classes of society must feel how much the conduct of the lower orders had merited their praise; but it was a little hard on those who had applied themselves to devise a measure to remedy a great evil, that they should now be charged with injustice and cruelty. But, while some objected to the
bonus472Mr. W. Courtenay
 having moved, that the bill be read a second time,Mr. Sturges Bourne
 had no partiality for the fire and water companies. By their conduct, they were a nuisance to the public. In his opinion, all the competition or rivalry which they produced was the rivalry of who should pull the pavement most violently to pieces.Sir J. Yorke
 could not subscribe to the doctrine of his hon. friend. Every petitioner was bound to make out his case as fully and satisfactorily as possible. In the present instance, however, he was inclined to believe that the petition was incorrect, and that the hon. gentleman (Mr. Lushington) had correctly stated the case.Sir M. W. Ridley
 admitted that this bill might have the effect of deterring the provident, the sober, and the industrious, from early marriages: but could it be expected to have the same influence over the profligate and the indolent, whom it was most important to restrain? He thought the provisions of the bill most unjust. Many persons had been born under the present system, who had now arrived at man's estate: and were these, at the close of a five and twenty years' war, during which the poor had displayed more attachment to the higher orders than had ever been known before, were these now to be rewarded with this bill, and to be told, that, after all the exertions they had made, it was the pleasure of the higher orders to break through the long established system, and determine that that provision should no longer be made for them from the poor rates, on which they had been taught to depend? He should certainly give this bill every opposition in his power, and he wished that besides rejecting it, some mark of reprobation should be set on it by the House.Lord Milton
 presented the bill "to authorize the receipt and appropriation of certain sums voluntarily contributed by the most noble John Jeffreys Marquis Camden, in aid of the public service." On the motion for the second reading,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
474 not having been present at the time the subject was introduced,
474Mr. Fremantle,
 joined in the praise bestowed on the marquis of Buckingham, and had no doubt, that if he had survived the war, he would have continued to apply a great proportion of the profits of his office to the public service.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
503502501l500499498497496 wished, in the first place, to express his conviction, that although much of the argument of the right hon. gentleman was perfectly sound, and warranted by facts, and such as he himself was disposed to concur in, yet that the few observations he should trouble the House with, would induce it not to go the length of admitting the general views which the hon. member had taken of the state of the country. In rising, as one of the administration which had been so peculiarly the subject of the right hon. gentleman's animadversion, he felt all the difficulty of his situation, especially in attempting to answer the very able and luminous speech which the House had just heard. With the right hon. gentleman's view of the difficulties of our financial condition, he was not disposed much to differ, but in adverting to the conduct of his right hon. friend, the
503502501l500499498497496Lord Castlereagh
 supported the motion.Lord Clifton
510 argued, that while the question of the metallic circulation of the country remained undecided, the House
510Mr. Wynn
522521520519518517516"Quod scribam vobis, Patres conscripti, vel quod non scribam" observed, that the consideration of the State of the Nation was a subject so vast, that it required so extensive a view, and embraced so many objects, that the eye could scarcely comprehend the whole, and the judgment was puzzled what to select for observation. In this situation he should be inclined to address the House in the words used by a Roman emperor to the senate: 522521520519518517516"Quod scribam vobis, Patres conscripti, vel quod non scribam"Sir Francis Burdett
 said, that he should vote for the motion, because he felt that the state of the country required to be investigated. The country had, in fact, no sinking fund, and if the House would but contemplate the event of a war under such circumstances, they must acknowledge the difficulty in which we were placed. The report of the committee had alluded to the balance of the sinking fund, but he believed it would be found there was none. From what sources then, he would ask, could they draw a revenue? In the last parliament 11 millions were expended in drawbacks and bounties, and what had they produced? These were fair topics for inquiry. He might be told that inquiry was now on foot, but the committee now examining was not appointed or occupied in reference to economy, but with a view to regulation. If the government was resolved to come to the people for taxes, he thought it indispensable that the lower orders should be relieved, and that the higher should bear the burthen. This was the only way in which provision could be made against the difficulties with which the country was threatened. The lower and middle classes could not afford any more. The best way of proceeding was to meet our affairs boldly, and as his majesty's, ministers had not done so, he should vote for the inquiry into the state of the nation.Mr. Maberly
527 described the question as a direct attack on the party which now administered the government; and as he had studiously kept aloof from connecting himself with any party, he should offer his unbiassed opinion on the point at issue. He agreed with those who stated, that the present parliament had as little of
527Mr. Bankes
 said, he should support the motion, because if he did not do so, he might be supposed to sanction the measures of the right hon. gentleman opposite, which he was unwilling to admit.Mr. Williams
546545544543impransus,plene pasti,542concilia-bules541540539538537536535534533532531530529528 rose and said:—546545544543impransus,plene pasti,542concilia-bules541540539538537536535534533532531530529528Mr. Canning
513512511 considered the present motion a tacit vote of censure on the conduct of ministers. Had his right hon. friend gone to a bolder measure, and directly moved a resolution of censure, he was not sure but he would have had the support of the hon. gentleman who had last spoken, and many other hon. members. Indeed, were he to judge from the opinions of men out of doors, in every street and in every district, he was persuaded that the, public felt neither esteem nor respect for the administration. The first objection which the noble lord had made to the motion of his right hon. friend was, that it was a premature entry upon the Bank report; and that, too, when his right hon. friend had not touched upon the affairs of the Bank, and had plainly
513512511Lord John Russell
outs.ins515514 said, that the right hon. gentleman had relieved the House from all doubt and difficulty as to the nature and intent of his motion, by avowing candidly that his object was, to effect a change of administration, or in other words to compel the Prince Regent to dismiss his present advisers, and of course, appoint, in their room, the right hon. gentleman, himself, and those of whom he is the leader. And this, sir, leads me to take (I trust) an impartial review, of the present state of parties in this House, and their comparative claims upon the confidence of the people. If, indeed, we were at once to adopt the representations of those who support the right hon. gentleman, we should be led to suppose that the struggle was entirely between corruption the most unblushing, and patriotism the most exalted. We should believe that, on the one side, not a vestige could be traced, of virtue, knowledge, or ability; no public spirit, no zeal for political freedom, no fond and reverential appreciation of our constitutional privileges and blessings. We should suppose that, on the other side, all the talents of the country were combined, that we should there find a concentration of whatever is great, good, or disinterested, no oligarchical influence, no close boroughs or purchased seats—no view to the patronage or emoluments arising from official situations; no commoners panting for the coronet; no peers impatiently aspiring to a more elevated title than they possess. But, Sir, will any one, who lays his hand upon his heart, and discards all party prejudice, or personal dislike—will any one, who weighs dispassionately the merits, or passes calmly under review the conduct, of public men, maintain, that such pictures are drawn faithfully from the life, or deny that the one is distorted by the darkening pencil of malevolence, and the other profusely embellished with all the high
outs.ins515514Mr. Sinclair
549548547 rose to reply. He said, that though he should not attempt to follow the long and able speech of the right hon. gentleman, as well because much of it was irrelevant, as because the House was at that hour so exhausted, he thought it necessary to set the right hon. gentleman right on some points which he
549548547Mr. Tierney
495494493492491490l.,489l.l.l.l.488l.l.l.l.l.l.l.487l.l.l.l.l.l.l.486l.485484l.483482481480479478477view,476475 said, that he rose in pursuance of the notice which he had given, to move for the appointment of a committee on the State of the Nation. In doing so he felt it necessary to throw himself on the indulgence of the House, since he feared he should be compelled to trespass for a considerable time on their patience. That indulgence, however, he had so often experienced on occasions of less importance, that he hoped it would not now be withheld. The best return he could make was to consume as little time as possible in the way of preface, and he should accordingly at once proceed to the question. His motion would be, that the House should resolve itself into a committee on the state of the nation. He was aware that if he acted only as a party man (and such, notwithstanding the odium which might attach to the confession, he was always ready to avow that he was), he should have abstained from bringing forward this proposition; because he was not so dull as not to perceive, that in bringing the question before the House, in point of mere party, he was giving up many advantages: he could hardly see how it was possible for the party (for they too He supposed must be considered a party) to which he and his friends were opposed, to stand in a situation less to be envied than at the present moment. It was difficult to imagine how any set of men could have been more cuffed and kicked about, and have taken the infliction more patiently, than the right hon. gentleman opposite with the noble lord at their head. In that respect they had displayed the utmost fortitude and forbearance; and if his wish had been only party triumph, he could not have done better than leave
495494493492491490l.,489l.l.l.l.488l.l.l.l.l.l.l.487l.l.l.l.l.l.l.486l.485484l.483482481480479478477view,476475Mr. Tierney
526525524523 said:—Mr. Speaker; When the noble lord on the treasury bench claimed the approbation of the House, on behalf of himself and his colleagues, for having terminated the late long and expensive war by a glorious and triumphant peace, I cordially acquiesced in every sentiment that he uttered; for I considered their conduct on that occasion, as having justly entitled them to the admiration and gratitude of their countrymen. But when he called upon us to acknowledge the talents since displayed by the chancellor of the exchequer, in managing the financial concerns of the empire, I heard him with very different feelings; and must enter my protest against being thought to subscribe to any such opinion. One would have
526525524523Mr. Marryatt
bene discessit observed, that as the question was now reduced into a very narrow compass, being nothing more than whether the House would select the gentlemen on the opposition, or those on the ministerial benches, for the members of administration, he must claim his right to express his opinions upon it. If the contest of the evening was to be a contest for power, he would call on the right hon. leader of the opposition to step manfully into the arena, and there meet the noble lord, face to face. He would call upon him to do this, in order that the campaign might be shortened, and he (Mr. M.) might take his bene discessitMr. R. Martin
 characterised the present crisis as one of the most alarming nature. The present ministers were evidently unable to conduct public business with common comfort to themselves, or with advantage to the nation. It was a government of departments; the head of each of which did not appear to communicate his intentions to his colleagues. The deplorable state of our circulating medium was occasioned by the neglect and inefficiency of government. The only remedy appeared to him to be the formation of a broad administration; and he conceived that the leading individuals of the existing political parties were by no means so far removed from each other, as many between whom coalitions favourable to the general good had been formed. He called upon the House to recollect, that it was a deficient revenue, a fallacious currency; and a weak administration, which had occasioned the French revolution. The motion had his hearty support.Mr. Dickinson
 argued for the necessity of inquiry before fifty-four mil-lions of taxes, the amount of the annual revenues, were again levied on the people. When he contrasted the state of the country a few months back with its present situation, he felt himself bound to vote for the motion. At that time its agriculture and manufactures were in full activity; they were now in a state of stagnation and decline.Mr. Alderman Heygate
509508507506505504 wished to state the reasons why he should give his vote in favour of his right hon. friend's motion. The House would recollect, that though his right hon. friend had alluded to our commercial regulations, and to our relations with foreign powers, yet the motion
509508507506505504Mr. William Lamb
 said, that whatever grounds of complaint had arisen in Mr. Henty's case had been removed, so far as the board of excise could remove them, on the discovery of the imposition which had been practised upon them. But he could not see how this petition could be acted upon by the House. It was true that the petition contained a general complaint, but it stated no fact in its support, no name, no dates, nothing in the way of specific complaint that was tangible, or could be made matter of inquiry by the board.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 repeated, that his only objection to the petition was, that when it called for inquiry, it set forth no specific facts upon which that inquiry could be grounded.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
558 thought that the petitioner ought to have applied to the House yesterday, and doubted whether the act of parliament left the House any power to resume the consideration of the petition, after the order relating thereto had been discharged. Even if it had, the petitioner
558Mr. Wynn
559l.l.1. rose, pursuant to notice, to make a motion to which he apprehended that no objection would be made, as the measure to which it referred was confessedly desirable. It had long been a subject of complaint, that improper persons had become conveyancers; for the only qualification required, according to the existing law, for any person to become a conveyancer, was the payment of about 40559l.l.1.The Hon. W. Lyttelton
l.sic volo sic jubeo, stat pro ratione voluntas. observed upon the origin of this bill, which was to be attributed to what was disclosed on a recent debate, respecting the conduct of an hon. member, the representative for Limerick. It appeared on that occasion, that the late custos rotulorum for the county of Limerick, sold the place of clerk of the peace to a boy, who was quite incompetent to perform its duty; that on the accession of the present custos, this boy became a man, and, capable of performing the duties of his office, was dismissed, not for any negligence or malversation, but on the principle of l.sic volo sic jubeo, stat pro ratione voluntas.Lord Carhampton
 said, he had no interest whatever in bringing the bill forward. He was not connected with any clerk of the peace in Ireland—but, as such a measure appeared to be necessary, he had fulfilled a public duty, in introducing it.Sir J. Newport
 suggested the propriety of withdrawing the petition, in the event of there being no objection to lay before parliament copies of the whole of the proceedings in the case of Mr. Henty.Mr. D. W. Harvey
l.555 said, that so far from their being nothing in this petition to justify inquiry, he thought there was every thing, for the petition referred to a transaction which had occurred in a court of justice, where the perjury and profligacy of the excise informers was openly exposed and punished. The question was, whether those acts complained of had been done or not? Information had been given by two persons of smuggling to the customs; on inquiry, their information was found to be false, and the persons, instead of being discharged, were taken into the employ of the board of excise. Information had been laid against Mr. Oliver, a respectable gentleman of Sussex, that he was engaged in smuggling on a particular day in a certain vessel. On inquiry, it appeared that the vessel was in dock at the time. The informers then changed their ground, and named another day; when, upon fresh inquiry, it appeared that on this second day so named, the vessel was lying under seizure at the custom house. The miscreants who had so perjured themselves, instead of being punished, were released by the excise. In Mr. Henty's case, the board preferred the evidence of similar wretches to the unquestionable
l.555Mr. Bennet
 rose to present a petition from the inhabitants of Arundel, against the system observed by the Board of Excise respecting the prosecutions they instituted on the oaths of informers. The petitioners warmly complained of the manner in which those prosecutions were instituted and conducted; they stated, that so glaring had the conduct of informers been, that the board of excise was itself obliged to turn round upon those informers, and punish them. He trusted the House would see the necessity of reforming a system so pregnant with abuse.Lord Henry Howard
 replied, that the petitioners had contented themselves with broadly stating the existence of a grievance which it was thought no man could be found to dispute. If particular facts were necessary to support inquiry many could be found to bear out the abhorrence which the petitioners had to the present practice.Lord H. Howard
 defended the conduct of the board of Excise, who had in Mr. Henty's case paid the whole costs that gentleman had been put to, when they found they had been imposed upon. He really thought that a petition complaining specifically of no oppression, which was open to explanation or inquiry on the facts of the case, ought not to form the ground of any proceeding before parliament. If any specific case of grievance could be satisfactorily pointed out, it should be instantly remedied, or if any specific remedy were devised, which without screening the guilty would shield the innocent, it should be immediately attended to by the board of excise.Mr. Lushington
554 strongly recommended the petition to the attention of the House. The greatest grievances were apparent in Sussex, from the system pursued by the excise board. Four of these informers were convicted last year of per-
554Mr. Walter Burrell
 said, it might be convenient to state, in reference to the petition, that yesterday he had informed the House the petitioner had not entered into recognizances, in consequence of which the order for taking the petition into consideration was discharged. He had also subsequently said he had received a letter from the petitioner, describing his inability to enter into recognizances within the proper time, from the mistake of the clerk in fixing it for yesterday, a day too late; since that he had thought it his duty to call for information on the subject. He had learned that the day had been fixed on in the usual manner, and approved of by the petitioner himself; but that when the latter came yesterday, Mr. Ley found it was a day too late, and made a communication to that effect to the petitioner. He, however, put a different construction on the words of the act, and contended he was not. Under these circumstances, Mr. Ley proposed to enter into the examination of the sureties and to grant the certificate, if they should be approved of: and afterwards the petitioner might make any application to the House, touching the transaction he thought proper. The petitioner declined that course—said that he was resolved to petition the House on the conduct of the clerks—left the room, and then wrote the letter he had before referred to. In a case nearly similar, the course had been to appoint a select committee to take the facts of the petition into consideration, with a view to determine whether the case admitted of any, and what remedy. He had only further to observe, that though the petition did deal in part with the recognizances, it also went largely into the merits of the petition.The Speaker
 then moved, "That so much of the said petition as regards the non-examination of the sureties proposed by Charles Pitt, esq. in respect of such petition, be referred to a committee to examine the matter thereof, and to report the same, together with their observations thereupon, to the House."Lord Milton
557 said, he held in his hand a petition from Charles Pitt, esq. who had presented a petition to the House, complaining of an undue return for the borough of Camelford. The petitioner stated, that he had arranged with the clerks for the production of the sureties to enter into" recognizances yesterday, but they had subsequently discovered that that was a day beyond what was allowed by the act of parliament, and when he came down yesterday with his sureties, that was stated to him. Such were the allegations of the petitioner: whether they were true or false, he did not know, but it undoubtedly appeared to him, that if he could satisfactorily make out that the not entering into recognizances within the time required by the law did not arise from any wilful neglect of his own, the House was
557Lord Milton
 said, that on the fullest consideration which he could give to this subject, he was of opinion, that the House had not the power to accede to the prayer of the petition. But even if it had the power, this was not a case in which it would be expedient for the House to exercise it, as the petitioner ought to have come earlier.Mr. Wynn
568567 observed, that the object which the hon. and learned member evidently had in view, was the foundation of another jurisdiction for cases of bankruptcy. His argument was, that the late institution of a vice chancellor's court, had, instead of diminishing, added to the arrear of business in chancery. It was not, however, a correct statement of the fact, to represent that arrear as having increased. The contrary was the case; but if otherwise, his objection to a new and separate jurisdiction for bankruptcy would not be removed. Before he referred to that subject, he should show, that the vice chancellor's court had been productive of the most important assistance and relief to suitors in equity, and had materially facilitated the hearing of appeals in the House of Lords. So far was it from the fact to state, that causes were entered two or three years before they were heard, that those now remaining to be heard had been all set down in the last term. With regard to cases of bankruptcy, no less than 570 had been set down during the last year, of which only 170 remained to be heard, and 100 of these had been entered since Hilary terra. The other 70 were cases for rehearing. The arrear therefore was less than had ever before been known; and had it not been for the lord chancellor's late illness, there would not now have been a single bankrupt petition remaining to be heard. As to the number of causes, there were 206 set down for hearing before the lord chancellor, of which 140 were not set down till last Hilary term, and of these, many consisted of appeals. Undoubtedly, the number of appeals was
568567The Solicitor General
576s.l.s. said, that the supporters of the measure before the House were placed between two fires. Last year the chancellor of the exchequer gave hopes that this tax would be altered in the course of this session, but now those who advocated an equalization of duty were charged with endeavouring to repeal the tax altogether. But this was not his object; he wished to have the duty equalized, and if a tax of 1576s.l.s.Mr. Alderman Wood
s.577l.l. thought it was an odd way of making coals cheap, to lay an additional duty upon them. He, however, preferred the existing system. He thought the cause why the coal tax was taken off in Wales, was not distinctly understood. The Welch coal was principally of a sort that would not be used in London. It was principally used to burn limestone to manure the mountainous part of that country. When the tax was proposed to be taken off in Wales, he believed there was a substitute in view, which a distrust of the chancellor of the exchequer prevented from being mentioned. And he doubted not but the hon. member for Surrey had also a substitute in view, which he kept back from a fear that the chancellor of the exchequer would continue the present tax, and adopt the substitute also [a laugh]. If the hon. member had a substitute in view, which could be borne without distressing the country, he ought in fairness to mention it in place of the present tax. If any tax could be spared from the revenue of the country, he could name several which had an equal claim with the coal tax. He thought a mitigation of the salt tax would be beneficial to the country, if it could be done; but he allowed that at present it was impracticable. He could also mention another. He thought a part of the excise duty on candles, might, if any tax could be spared, be taken off. The people were now obliged to go to the chandler's shop for candles, but in his country, though it was a little irregular, they made their own. This tax brought in 300,000s.577l.l.Colonel Wood
 wished to explain with respect to the great stone. It was by direction of government, not of the city, that coals were not allowed to come lower down.Mr. Alderman Wood
573l. seconded the motion, He said that the hon. mover had gone so ably and at such length into the general question of the impolicy of the duties on coals, that he should confine his observations to its effects on that part of the country with which he was connected. The duties on coals in Devon and Cornwall last year amounted to near 60,000573l.Lord Ebrington
s.s.579 observed, that his views on the question must have been known, from what he had at different times stated when petitions were presented on the subject to that House. That was one of the reasons for his not having previously taken a part in the discussion. Besides, he was willing to hear the opinions of gentlemen, who, from their local connexions, were calculated to afford the House the fullest information. Since the subject was first introduced, it was his decided opinion, that it would be most inexpedient to stir a question of this nature, when the circumstances of the country were such as not to allow the hope of a favourable decision. Enough had passed on the discussion of a former night, to show that it was the intention of parliament to watch with jealous and peculiar care any thing that tended to produce a diminution of revenue. Indeed, it would be his duty in a few days to call the attention of that House to the manner in which they might best add to the revenue of the country. With respect to the cities of London and Westminster, it was to be recollected that they had received a considerable relief al-
s.s.579The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 in explanation, said, he had expressly recommended a property, and not an income tax.Colonel Wood,
 said, that after the personal allusion made to him by the hon. member who had just sat down, he must require an apology from that hon. member to the House.Lord Mount Charles
585 in the present exigency, was not for reducing the revenue. On the contrary, if the finances of the country were placed on a sound footing, and a rigid system of public economy adopted, no man would be more ready to pay himself, and to vote for the payment by the nation at large, of such taxes as the good of the state might require. But the duty under consideration was most unfair and
585Sir J. Sebright,
 observed, that as the existing duty was most oppressive and unequal, and bore peculiarly hard on those whom he had the honour to represent, he felt it his duty to support the motion.Mr. Byng
591 said, that this question was of so much importance to the interests of the country, and to the cause of justice and humanity, that he should be the last man to oppose the measure because a little more expense might be incurred by it. He should think it his duty, when the bill was introduced to consider what would be the most economical arrangement. He could safely assert, that with the exception of the question regarding the poor-laws, his mind-had been more embarrassed upon this subject than on any other. The bill originally brought forward in the other House, by lord Redesdale, had almost totally failed; it had been productive of the most lavish waste of property on the part of the debtor, and of great hardship towards the creditor. After complimenting the zeal with which the noble lord had entered into the subject, and the success with which he appeared to have encountered its difficulties, he pledged himself to afford
591The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 had no doubt but that the laws of Ireland could be assimilated with those of England in this respect, and that the provisions of this measure could be extended. He entirely agreed in the defects of the bill which at present existed, and the melancholy effect it had upon Ireland.Mr. Leslie Foxier
 said, he felt all the objections to the question which had been stated. He was sorry that the hon. gentleman should have been misled by a private communication to put the question; and he hoped the hon. gentleman would never hereafter consider any article in any newspaper as official. With respect to the paper in question, he could not help saying, that he had seen much in that paper that he entirely disapproved of.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
594 proposed a resolution, that leave be given to bring in a bill, "to limit the continuance of the operation of the several acts for imposing Fines upon Townlands and places in Ireland, in respect of offences relating to the unlawful distillation of Spirits, and to amend the said acts, and to provide for the more effectual prevention or suppression of such offences." He intimated that it was his intention, in the event of his obtaining leave to bring in this bill, to accompany it with several regulations, which would, he trusted, in the interim, obviate many' of the objections that had been made to the present mode of preventing illicit distillation in Ireland. It was known that in the barony of Innishowen, where illicit distillation at one time raged, it was effectually extinguished by the energy of an effective police; now his intention was, that wherever this police was established, and effectively acted upon, no townland fines should be levied, and that after the summer of the ensuing year, the effect of the measure should be reviewed. He wished, in the interim, to have a clause in force, giving any county a power to apply to the lord lieutenant to call into action, in the particular district, the townland fine system where it might be deemed necessary. He was also prepared to mitigate the operation of the existing practice, and instead of levying the fine where the head or worm of a still was found concealed, only, to levy it where the machine was found complete. Another mitigation would be, to bar the infliction of fines after three years. In the event of a county calling
594The Chancellor of the Exchequer
595 expressed his cordial satisfaction that the attention of ministers had been at length drawn to the abominable operation of the townland fine system in Ireland. He had always been of opinion, that the moment the evils and distresses which that system provoked were fully explained to the House, redress would be inevitably obtained; and the result verified his anticipation. The proposition of the right hon. gentleman was, to substitute another, and a modified measure for that which was now in such oppressive operation. He earnestly hoped the alteration would succeed, and answer every fair purpose. Whether it did or not, no consideration should induce him to countenance a continuance of the townland fine system. Independent of its
595Mr. Chichester
 felt himself bound to go hand in hand with the chancellor of the exchequer, in using every exertion to render his meditated measure available. Nobody doubted the necessity of suppressing illicit distillation; but the consequences of the townland fine system were dreadful, and could no longer be endured.Sir J. Stewart
 stated, that, as the representative of a city which contained a large body of opulent distillers, whose interests were at stake, he thought, on their part, he had a right to complain of the conduct of his majesty's government on this question. They first displayed a decided hostility to this motion; they then yielded to their opponents, and without notice, or giving any reason for changing sides, took the opposite course; the consequence of which was, from its versatility, very injurious to the interests of the chief distillers of Ireland. He begged to guard himself against any idea of being supposed to countenance the means by which the townland fine system was carried into execution in Ireland. No man could suspect him of countenancing arbitrary or oppressive proceedings; but he still thought the chancellor of the exchequer, after his avowal upon the subject, had placed himself in rather a perilous alternative, in submitting to the abandonment of a system which, according to his opinion, had considerably tended to put down illicit distillation in Ireland. A great alarm prevailed respecting the intended measure for the establishment of small stills. He hoped the right hon. gentleman would not overlook the protection and consideration which was due to the existing large distilleries. He hoped that full time would be given to have this bill printed, so as to let the large distillers understand the situation in which they would be placed by the alteration.Mr. Hutchinson
 strongly contended against the evils of the existing law. He did not wish to see any interest unequally operated upon, but he denied the right or the power of the larger distilleries to impose restrictions upon the operation of a measure which, he was persuaded, would have a most salutary tendency. The county of Donegal, was an example of the oppressive effect of the existing system.Lord Mount Charles
 reprobated the existing system. On the Connaught circuit the calculation was, that it annually led in that district to a thousand perjuries. He was sure that the alteration of the law would have the support of ninety-nine out of the hundred Irish members.Mr. French
 repeated, that the measure was not likely to produce universal satisfaction. He had that day attended a most respectable meeting of Irish distillers, who were certainly at sea upon the question. They had had communications with the chancellor of the exchequer, but were by no means satisfied with the projected measure.Mr. Hutchinson
 said, that some of the Irish distillers had waited upon him that morning, in a state of considerable alarm; but, previously to their leaving him, they did not seem dissatisfied at his projected measure, while they certainly wished, and very naturally, for protection for themselves.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 congratulated general Hart on the perseverance he had shown, in bringing this question to what he trusted would be a successful termination.Mr. Forbes
l.l. thought that a favourable opportunity now presented itself to his majesty's ministers, to correct the general administration of the law with respect to bankruptcy and insolvency. A great expense might also be avoided. There were at present fourteen lists of bankrupt commissioners, costing the country 35.000l.l.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 supported the motion, because he thought an equalization of the duty preferable to the present tax, which he considered partial and oppressive.Mr. Ellice
575s.l.l.s.s.s.s.574‡s. considered this a question not between the chancellor of the exchequer and the city of London, but between the consumers of inland coals, and the consumers of sea coals. It had not been necessary to make any reference to the time of Richard 2nd. It would have been quite sufficient to have gone back so far as the Revolution. After several manufactures had arisen under certain taxes, to repeal those taxes at once would occasion a revulsion injurious to those manufactures, and most injurious, for a considerable time, to the country at large. If 6575s.l.l.s.s.s.s.574‡s.Mr. E. Littleton
 defended the conduct of the city of Bristol in petitioning against the equalization tax, because they thought it would immediately occasion a considerable rise on coals at the pit's mouth. But with respect to any tax on coals, there was but one opinion in all Bristol, and that was, that the tax should be repealed altogether. He trusted the time was not far distant when all the taxes of the country would call for revision, and when the relinquishment of this oppressive tax would be forced upon his majesty's ministers.Mr. Protheroe
pro tanto596 said, that the operation of the existing system was so oppressive and intolerable in Ireland that no change could be for the worse. In fact, the people would have preferred the terrors of martial-law to the continuance of the townland fine system. It was, indeed, the same thing. The only difference was, that the people were oppressed by disciplined troops in a brown uniform instead of a red; and instead of having, in cases of outrage, the protection of honourable men on courts-martial, they had a court of excise, which he was sorry to say, showed no disposition to mitigate the oppression of the system, and which constituted in itself the separate offices of judge, jury, and executioner. The experiment, as it was called, of the townland fine system, was bad; it failed to produce any thing but indiscriminate oppression wherever it had been tried—look, for instance, at the county of Donegal, where armies of excisemen were let loose upon the people— their motive was their rewards, and their rewards were provided by the existing law: fraud, and chicanery, and cunning, were sure to triumph. He had for a considerable period called the attention of the House to the oppression of the existing system in Ireland; he had repeatedly moved for papers with the view of exposing its monstrous effects. His motions were either met with an unseemly refusal, or when carried, their effect re-
pro tanto596General Hart
583 rose amidst loud cries of question. On which he observed, that the hon. member for Donegal should not prevent him by clamour from doing his duty to his constituents [Order, order]. If any other member, connected with Scotland, had addressed the House on this subject, he should have thought it highly indecorous in him to have trespassed, for a second time, upon its indulgence, but he rose to protest, in behalf of his native country, against any measure which could possibly lead to a general equalization of the duties upon coal throughout the empire. Such an impost was anticipated in every part of Scotland with the strongest feelings of alarm and dismay; not only because it would be highly injurious to the manufacturers, but because it would be an act of gross injustice towards the community at large, inasmuch as the tax on sea-borne coal had already been commuted in Scotland for an impost
583Mr. Sinclair
 was about to reply, when a loud cry of Chair, Chair! called up the Speaker, who said he was sure the hon. member must be aware, on a little consideration, that if he thought any hon. member interfered with his right of expressing his opinion, it was his duty to address the House on the subject, and not that hon. member. He was persuaded, therefore, that under the circumstances of the case, the hon. member would see that he had been wrong.Mr. Sinclair
 disclaimed any offensive personal allusion; but as there was a loud clamour the moment that he rose to address the House, it was natural that he should feel annoyed by it. He certainly was ready to make every proper apology for his warmth [Hear, hear!].Mr. Sinclair
566 said, that he rose to second the motion, not only because he believed that it would be productive of great public benefit, but also because be felt convinced that it might, indirectly, prove essentially useful to Scotland in particular, by enabling the lord chancellor to devote a larger portion of his time and attention, to the consideration and decision of appeals from the court of session. The delay, which now occurred, in respect to these appeals, was considered, from one end of Scotland to the other, as a most serious national grievance—it is the source of great loss to individuals, of distress and embarrassment to private families, and of serious mischief and inconvenience to the community at large. Not only do many sessions pass over, before these cases are heard, but, even when the pleadings have
566Mr. Sinclair
572l.l.l.l.571s.s.s.d.s.d.s.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.570s.s.s.s.s.s.l.d. rose, pursuant to notice, to ask for leave to bring in a bill to repeal certain acts imposing a duty on Sea-borne coals. This act was one bearing peculiarly and partially on the metropolis and neighbourhood, and formed just grounds for complaint. He was aware if antiquity could be considered as a just ground for taxation, then this might be well defended. The taxes had been laid on upon some extraordinary emergency for a temporary purpose, but had been continued after such necessity had long ceased to exist. He observed, that the first tax appeared to have been levied in the reign of Richard 2nd, when two ships and two barges were fitted out to protect the northern coast from pirates, and for which coals, among other things were subjected to a duty of 6572l.l.l.l.571s.s.s.d.s.d.s.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.570s.s.s.s.s.s.l.d.Mr. Holme Sumner
 replied. After which, the House divided: Ayes 49; Noes 15.1. Majority against the motion 102.Mr. Sumner
592 wished to put a question to the chancellor of the exchequer on the subject of an
592Mr. Callaghan
 said, the article in question carried on the face of it the stamp and character of official.Mr. Callaghan
 said, he should vote against the tax, because he thought it extremely oppressive in the metropolis and the surrounding country, and he should vote against an equalization, because he thought it would be ruinous to the manufacturing districts.Mr. Bennet
s.d.581s.d.s.s.d.s.580 said, he had heard with great regret, though certainly not with surprise, the determination of the chancellor of the exchequer not to agree to the repeal of this most oppressive tax— not only, it appeared, did he mean to refuse the relief now claimed, but he contemplated the levying of fresh taxes on the people, in a period of profound peace. He and his friends would most steadfastly oppose the introduction of new taxes. He knew not whether the House would or would not support them—he knew not whether their opposition would be successful—but they would, at all events, have the consolatory reflection that they had discharged their duty [Hear!].— The hon. member (colonel Wood) had made a very facetious speech, on a very grave subject. Like an hon. member (Mr. Marryat) who, on a former evening made several observations on the price of tallow, the gallant colonel had entered into a dissertation on tallow-candles. He hoped the similarity would not end here, but that, like the hon. member to whom he had alluded, the gallant colonel having made his speech, would quit the House without voting. He had entertained the House with a supposed bull made by the city of London, in denominating coals on the Paddington canal, sea-borne: but the fact was not so—Inland coals brought to London did not pay the coast duties, but a particular duty imposed by government for the protection of the revenue they derived from the importation of sea-borne coals into the port of London. The House were next amused by the gallant colonel with the history of the great stone in the River Thames. He stated, that a Customhouse officer was sent down to this stone for the purpose of preventing a cargo of Welsh coals from being introduced into the port of London. The consequence was, the vessel returned, and the unfortunate officer remained ever since at his post—"Infelix These us sedit et semperque sedebit." [Hear, hear!].—But really the subject was of too much importance to be trifled with in this way. In Consequence of the heavy duty payable
s.d.581s.d.s.s.d.s.580Mr. Lambton
586 said, that in rising to oppose the motion, he was directing his hostility to the equalization of duty; for he was convinced, that if the present duties were repealed, new ones of such a nature would be immediately resorted to. Any alteration to which his conception led him would be unjust and grievous to his constituents. The county which he had the honour to represent, and the district in which he lived, was filled with coal mines and studded with manufactories; to it any duty would, in consequence, be highly injurious and unjust; for they had built large edifices for their manufactures,
586Mr. Maxwell
l. shortly replied, and contended that the true causes of that delay which was a subject of universal complaint, could not be fairly understood, except by the examination of professional persons before a committee of that house. The appeals now pending in the House of Lords amounted to 141, and would probably not be determined for three years to come. Many cases had been now 18 months waiting for judgment; and if any accident, which he should regret as much as any man, were to happen to the noble and learned lord, these cases must be reheard at an enormous expense to the parties. Hence, the Buccleugh, the Roxburgh, and the Queensberry cases, in each of which, not less perhaps than 5 or 6,000l.Mr. M. A. Taylor
565l.l.l.564l.l.l.l.l.l.563562561 said, he had to request the indulgence of the House, while he called their attention to a subject in its nature certainly not very entertaining, namely, the delays in the high Court of Chancery. But though this was a dry subject, it was one which was interesting to a great part of the community, who unless some aid was afforded by parliament, would continue to suffer greatly from such delays. He should state the grounds on which he brought forward the present motion, with perfect respect to the judges who presided in the courts referred to in his motion; but at the same time he should do the subject fair justice, and should shrink from nothing. The question to which he should call their attention was, whether the aid afforded to the public in 1813, by the appointment of a vice chancellor's court, had answered the end which the legislature intended it should have, and whether any other step was not now necessary to relieve the Court of Chancery. He did not wish at present to enter into any of the particulars of the mischief which had arisen from delay. He attributed the delay of decision to the pressure of business, which no human strength could perform, and from which he wished to relieve the lord chancellor. He owned that he wished to propose that the House should agree to a committee; and if the House should grant this, then he should prove, from the authentic registers of the court, by the officers of the court, and by professional men, that great actual injustice took place from delay in the Court of Chancery. He begged the House would look to the expense of proceedings in chancery. He did not ask this for his own part, for he
565l.l.l.564l.l.l.l.l.l.563562561Mr. M. A. Taylor
 was surprised that any member should consider any article in a newspaper official. In the resolutions to be moved, there was indeed an allusion to the payment of 10 millions to the Bank, but not a syllable about the time when it was to be paid. He hoped that no answer would be given to a question so irrelevant.Mr. Grenfell
 also complimented the noble lord on his exertions, and expressed his entire approbation of every part of the bill. The object being one which had frequently occupied his mind, and the disadvantages of the present system having frequently come under his observation, he was the more anxious to afford every assistance in his power towards the completion of a measure so beneficial to the public.Mr. Hurst
 agreed with the noble lord, that the present was not the time to enter into any discussion, but as much misconception had gone abroad with respect to the views of the petitioners, he wished to state, that no indisposition was shown, cither by the petitioners, or by any of the witnesses, to the adoption of some measure for the relief of unfortunate debtors. He concurred with the noble lord in general as to the remedy with which he proposed to meet the evils of the present system, but wished to reserve to himself the right of discussing some of the points when the bill came properly before the House.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 rose to vindicate the city of London from the aspersion cast on its conduct by an hon. member. The hon. member should not forget that on every emergency the city of London had always been foremost to manifest its loyalty, and to advance its extensive and liberal aid to the government. The celebrated income tax, the discontinuance of which was so much lamented now by his majesty's ministers, he believed originated with the city of London, and he had the satisfaction to add, that it was the spirit and persevering firmness of the 'city of London which gave the mortal blow to that odious and inquisitorial tax. The hon. member should also recollect that although the city of London petitioned against this tax as a heavy grievance, the population of the city was not as one to ten of those in its vicinity who felt its pressure, and who were much less able to bear it; and more especially the manufacturing orders and labouring poor in its suburbs and surrounding vicinage, who were most grievously affected by this tax.Mr. Alderman Waithman
l. said, that this was a tax which pressed heavily upon the poor, and injured manufacturers very much. In Exeter, where the population was only 18,000, they paid 10,700l.Mr. W. Courtenay
 could not agree with the hon. member, that such an alteration as he proposed would be attended with any advantage. On the contrary, he thought it would create a complicated and expensive system, which would be intolerable. He did not think that the increase of commissioners, as suggested by the noble lord who proposed the bill, would be attended with advantageous re-suits. He would admit that the introduction of some auxiliaries to the present commissioner might prove advantageous.Mr. W. Courtenay
 supported the motion, principally on the ground that the tax operated so heavily on one part of the country, when other parts, and particularly the vicinity of the coal countries, were exempt. The only just principle of taxation was, that it should be equal on the taxed commodity upon every class of his majesty's subjects. But he thought the tax on coals one of the most partial and grievous taxes under which the metropolis and its vicinity laboured, and therefore he should vote for its repeal.Mr. Denison
582 opposed the principle which many gentlemen had expressed themselves in favour of, namely, that of a tax on coals at the pit's-mouth. Such a tax would affect every person, of every description, in the country. It would be worse than that odious tax which disgraced their history, called the poll-tax. The latter only affected persons who had arrived at the age of puberty, while a tax on coals at the pit's-mouth would affect every man, woman, and child, in the
582Mr. Dickinson
 thought that the whole question might be resolved into this issue —whether coals should be subject to little or no tax in places where it was cheap, but be subject to a considerable addition in places where it was already dear. A tax which in its nature was unequal, must be injurious to the country at large. He thought that the argument derived from the antiquity of this tax was of no importance, and that if coals were introduced in those parts of the country where wood was at present grown for fuel, an opportunity would be afforded of adding to the extent of land fit for cultivation. It was for the advantage of the country that every thing of service to the community should be furnished to the public as cheap as possible.Mr. W. Smith
593§ trusted the hon. member would, on a little reflection, be convinced that this was the first time that a question was put to any minister on an article in a newspaper, on a subject of such conse-
593§The Speaker
s.s. said, that with repect to the apprehension expressed by some gentlemen, that if the tax were repealed in London, instead of lowering the price here, it would only transfer it to the owners of coal mines, who would directly charge a much higher price on coals at the pit's mouth, he could speak from his own knowledge, that for the last 18 or 20 years, not a shilling had been raised on the price of coals at the pit's mouth; on the contrary, it had diminished one shilling per chaldron for three years past. The coal owners charged at the pit but 16s.s.Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, that the only object, and he thought it a fair one, of the Irish distillers was, after having embarked large capitals on the faith, he might say, of parliament, to be protected against the consequences of an alteration in the chancellor of the exchequer's system.Sir N. Colthurst
 did not rise on the present occasion to oppose this motion. No man was more anxious than he was to protect the innocent and punish the guilty. But he was afraid that the effect of this measure would be to divert from the resources of the country a portion of the revenue of Ireland; and when this result was known, then they would be taunted with the unproductive nature of their revenue, though in fact the defalcation was occasioned by mismanagement. Though he had strong objections to the motion, on account of what he considered would be its effect upon the revenue, yet he had a still greater and more insuperable objection to what he conceived would be its operation upon the morals of the people. The effect of the existing system had been, he thought, in a great degree, to rescue a large portion of the lower classes from the miserable condition into which they had been previously sunk by the practice of illicit distillation. He sincerely hoped his predictions, that a repeal of the existing law would renew the old evil, would not follow. He honestly and fairly thought the proposed measure a bad one, and that it would induce a recurrence of the old evil. Being of this opinion, he would certainly in a future stage oppose the bill.Sir J. Newport
 hoped that the bill proposed to be introduced would be extended to Ireland. The evils of the present system had been deeply felt in that island.Sir John Newport
 rose to object to articles in newspapers which any member might choose to consider official, being made the foundation of questions like this. The House were bound to interfere to prevent any question being put to a minister on the subject of an article in a newspaper bearing no signature. In such a case, ministers must either remain silent, or commit the public interest by a premature declaration of their intentions. He rose to protest against a practice which had never yet been suffered, and never would be suffered by the House.Sir John Newport
 urged the necessity, in whatever measures were taken, of keeping in full view the necessity of suppressing illicit distillation, which was so fruitful of evil. He did not believe the existing law to be so unjust and improper as it had been represented to be, nor did he hope for much good from the proposed measure.Mr. Valentine Blake
590bonâ fide589ex post facto588 in calling the attention of the House to his intended measure for the Relief of Insolvent Debtors in England, observed, that the unanimity with which the committee appointed to investigate the subject, had agreed to the principles of the bill which it was his intention to propose, relieved his mind, in a great measure, from the embarrassment he should otherwise feel, in bringing forward so important a question. He was bound to apologize, however, for introducing the bill before the report of the committee was printed. His motive in doing so was, the necessity impressed upon his mind of originating the bill without farther delay, at so late a period of the session, in order that it might be printed as soon as possible, with a view to a full discussion of it in the future stages after the report had made its appearance. For this reason he should now enter more into detail than would be proper under other circumstances in so early a stage. It was unnecessary for him to explain to the House, that the old law of debtor and creditor gave to the creditor a power of inflicting unlimited imprisonment on an insolvent. The principle on which it went was this—that the debtor was able to pay, and therefore ought to be confined until he had paid. But, beside the falsehood of the principle itself, the consequences proved most injurious both to the debtor and the creditor in many instances. On the one hand, unfortunate persons who had not the means of paying were kept in confinement, while, on the other, many persons who could pay remained in prison, and set their creditors at defiance. The first measure of relief to the severity of such a system was that entitled the Lords' acts. The principle of this measure was, to entitle the debtor to his discharge on surrendering his property, except it was objected to by any one of his creditors: and in order to secure him against malicious detention, the objecting creditor was obliged to pay him what was called his groats, a sum which was afterwards increased to sixpence. Notwithstanding this regulation great inconvenience was experienced. The gaols be-
590bonâ fide589ex post facto588Lord Althorp,
578 expressed his surprise that a debate on the subject of repealing a tax
578Lord Milton
658 thought that the suggestion of the hon. and learned member would come more properly after the third reading. The great merit of the present bill was, that it reduced the law of marriage to a certain system, because it did away with those vague and indeterminate provisions of former acts, which were so strongly objectionable. It was aimed also,
658Mr. Wynn
ex post facto proposed, that the bill should have an ex post factoColonel Wood
 thought the bill would have a most pernicious effect. The instances of abuse of the discretionary power vested in magistrates by the present law, were extremely few, and those few were amply compensated by the excellent effect of them on the behaviour of publicans, and the morals of those who frequented their houses.Mr. Davies Gilbert
 said, he quite agreed with the hon. gentleman who suggested this amendment, in thinking that the law which gave such an undue advantage to persons of full age, was in a most objectionable state. The bill, however, as it stood, would tend much to diminish the grievances resulting from the marriage act, and he thought it better therefore not to increase the risk which it might yet have to encounter before it finally passed the legislature. On this ground he hoped the hon. member would withdraw his proposition.Mr. Davies Gilbert
 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill to amend the act of last session for appointing a commission to inquire into the abuses in Charity Schools. It had been his intention to open the object of the bill to the House at present, but he had been induced to postpone doing so till the second reading. He proposed bringing in the bill, having it printed, and letting it lie over till after the recess. He ought to apologise to the House for having delayed this measure till so late a period in the session. His reason was, that the House might be in possession of the information contained in the reports of the commission, the last of which was lately laid on the table, before calling on them to enact any new measures. The noble lord then moved for leave to bring in a bill, to amend the act of last session, for the appointment of a commission to investigate the application of charitable funds, and to extend the powers of the said act to Charitable Foundations.Lord Castlereagh
 objected to the principle of the bill, which, by attaching the office of the justice general, as was proposed, to that of the president of the session, would give to a civil judge a criminal jurisdiction. He wished, therefore, that the bill should be altered, and that, at all events, it should not be discussed during the absence of the lord advocate.Mr. Primrose
 said, the bill created new duties, which would occasion great expense to the judge who was to perform them, while there was no provision made to answer it. He did not see the propriety of continuing the office as an effective one, after the demise of the nobleman who at present held it as a sinecure, and at the same time withdrawing the salary.Mr. W. Douglas
665 concurred with the
665Mr. J. P. Grant
 professed himself unacquainted with Scotch law. The bill was put into his hands with a request to bring it forward; he had done so; but finding the sense of the House unfavourable to it in its present form, he should ask leave to withdraw it, in order to bring it forward at a future time in a more improved form.Mr. D. Gilbert
l rose and observed, the noble, disinterested, and patriotic manner in which the noble marquis had relinquished the extensive emoluments of this office, was a magnanimous sacrifice to the service of his country, which it was impossible for the House to pass over without some signal mark of its approbation. He had sacrificed, in effect, a much larger sum than the marquis of Buckingham had done in a similar way; for, considering the noble marquis's time of life, and reckoning on the ordinary calculations of longevity, the amount of what lord Camden had thus generously sacrificed could not be less than 100,000lMr. Bankes
 said, that as to the conduct of the noble marquis, there was but one feeling; it was a sacrifice as unexampled, as it was disinterested and pure; and though his noble friend did not court public notice, yet nothing, he was convinced, would be more gratifying to his feelings, than the unanimous expression of the approbation of the House. He hoped therefore that the hon. gentleman would not throw any difficulty in the way which the House were inclined to pursue.Lord Castlereagh
667 said, he rose, pursuant to notice, to call the attention of the House to the present mode of administering justice in Wales. The hon. member then proceeded to point out the abuses which existed in the present system of administering justice in that country, and pointed out the inexpediency of having a separate jurisdiction, where the whole kingdom was governed by the same laws. He concluded by moving the following resolutions: "1. That to keep up a distinction
667Mr. J. F. Campbell
 said, that the committee who had sat on the subject had gone deeply into the question, and he could not but regret that they had not brought in some specific resolution. He objected to the present motion as of too sweeping a nature; and, besides the difficulty attending the introduction of the English system of laws into any country, the twelve judges of England were excluded from the House merely because they constituted part of the other House. Such was, however, not the case with the Welsh judges, and he therefore saw no reason to exclude them from the House. He should move the previous question.Lord Castlereagh
 entered into a detail of the circumstances which took place on the committee, and supported the motion.Mr. Wynn
 opposed the bill. The examination of magistrates would, in his view, be found very objectionable, while it would tend to expose those persons entrusted with very responsible duties to unnecessary odium.Mr. Bathurst
 hoped, that as the clause respecting magistrates was so much opposed, his hon. friend would not press it. The bill contained so many excellent provisions, that he should be sorry the benefit of it should be lost to London and Westminster.Mr. Alderman Wood
 opposed the motion, as he saw no necessity for such a change; besides, there was no application made for it from Wales.Mr. Bathurst
 said, the report of the committee was deserving of the highest consideration, it having been composed of most respectable and enlightened individuals. He thought the House should be extremely cautious in interfering with the administration of justice, and vindicated the character of the professional men in the county he represented. On the whole, he believed the judicature was an essential blessing to the principality, and should be sorry to see it removed.Colonel Wood
 consented, and the resolutions were withdrawn.Mr. Campbell
662 could not agree with the last speaker, in supposing this bill would throw any stigma on magistrates, and he confessed he had never anticipated such an objection. He could not see why the magistrates should refuse to give their reasons, unless indeed they were disposed to say with Falstaff, that they would not give reasons "on compulsion." There was a bill already in existence which called on them for such reasons, namely, the present Insolvent act, which authorised the court here to call for the reasons on which the magistrates acted in the quarter sessions in the country. The magistrates could incur no expences in defending their conduct at the sessions;
662Mr. George Lamb
 said, he so entirety approved of the bill as far as it went, that though he thought the time which the law had existed formed no apology for it, and though he could not surmise a reason why, in another place, the clause he proposed could appear to render the bill more objectionable, he should be happy to defer to the judgment of the hon. members who wished him to withdraw it.Mr. C. Tennyson
659 was anxious to introduce a clause to prevent a marriage between a minor and an adult, from being in any case liable to be annulled at the suit of the adult. It was a most disgusting and revolting fact, that in a great majority of cases, the proceedings were instituted by the husband, who had attained twenty-one at the period of the marriage; and, as the bill stood, the power would still remain to him, until the expiration of six months after his wife's attainment of the age of legal majority. Every principle which induced the House to approve of the bill as it stood, would justify its going the length he suggested; for nothing could be more repugnant to reason, decency, and justice, than the practice he wished to prohibit; unless indeed it were the circumstance, that in a civilized age and country, the law should so long have continued to permit, and thus to sanction it,—a permission and sanction in no respect necessary for securing the genuine object of the marriage act, which was designed mainly for the protection of minors. That act could not have been intended to furnish, as it did, the means of accomplishing the ruin of an innocent and virtuous female, who perhaps, after resisting all the arts of seduction, relied with the unsuspicious ignorance of youth on the validity of a marriage offered to her by a person of full age, while that person having gained the ends of his passion, more effectually than by means which would have incurred the severest inflictions of the law, was enabled with impunity to reap a double advantage from the perjury by which he had obtained the solemnization of the marriage rites. The alteration he suggested would also render the bill more conformable to the law on
659Mr. C. Tennyson
 thought a clause rendering it imperative on magistrates to assign the reasons of their conduct to publicans, was throwing a slur on their character.Mr. Davenport
 saw great inconvenience would result from obliging magistrates to give written reasons for their conduct. Counsel, he had no doubt, would be employed to dissect such statements and make them appear improper, while the best motives and purest feelings might have actuated the magistrates. He did not object, however, to going into a committee on the bill, as some of its principles were good, and many of its provisions would be found useful in the metropolis.Mr. Sumner
 having moved the second reading of this bill,—Mr. Bennet
664 said, that no slur was attempted to be cast on the magistrates, much less any intended degradation—Degradation! Could it be a degradation to the magistrates to have an appeal made from their decisions, when the courts of law constantly appealed from each other's decisions, when every day's practice showed it to be familiar both in and out of that House? In the country places generally he did not think the conduct of the magistrates was other than became English gentlemen. But to the disgrace of lord lieutenants of counties in the neighbourhood of London, far different persons were appointed to the magistracy. The scandalous abuses tolerated by them need not then to be related, for every hon. member, who had taken the trouble to inform himself on the subject, must have long since been satisfied of the disgusting fact. It was perfectly notorious that the magistrates in London had deprived many honest men of their property, while they licensed their own public houses, knowing them at the same time to be converted into brothels of the worst description. There was, beside, no law granting them a discretion to take away a license, although there was a low enabling them to refuse one. The hon. member then cited a case from Burrowe's Reports, confirmatory of his position, in which lord Mansfield had decided that a magistrate who had taken away a license, was guilty of an act for which he should be punished.
664Mr. Bennet
 rose to second the motion. He had, in the first place, to thank the noble lord for delaying the introduction of the bill, grounded, as the delay was, on reasons so satisfactory; and next, for adopting the suggestion which had proceeded from himself, of forbearing to open the nature of his bill till the second reading. His motive for seconding the motion was this—because he thought the amendments it proposed exceedingly desirable, as it went first to enlarge the powers of the commissioners, and secondly to extend the objects of the commission; both which objects had been originally well secured in his bill of last session, though afterwards in a great measure given up. The only ground of difference that could arise between him and the noble lord was, that possibly he might think the present bill did not go far enough; but as that would be a proper subject of discussion at the second reading, he should willingly postpone any further observations till that stage.Mr. Brougham
 thought the provisions of the bill should be applied to the cities of London and Westminster only. It was inequitable in those cases where it would interfere with chartered rights.General Gascoyne
 thought until as strong a case was made out against the country magistrates, as he regretted to say, had been made out against those in the metropolis, he should oppose the bill; although, if applied where it was necessary, he should vote for it. The machinery of the bill was also faulty, and went to entail a very heavy expense upon the county. It provided that after a third conviction for improper conduct, the magistrate should send the case before a jury; but he would ask, who was to pay the expense of the trial? The hon. gentleman would reply, the county; but if this was the case, it would have the effect of materially increasing the county rates, which were already a great burthen, He was satisfied the existing laws had answered the purpose completely, and he should therefore oppose the present measure.Mr. S. Wortley
 said, that not being present at the former discussion, he now merely rose to express his applause and admiration of the conduct of the marquis of Camden. He was glad that the House would hand down to posterity the expression of their sense of an act so truly noble, and so deserving of imitation;Mr. Calcraft
 said, that from his own experience he knew the present licensing system was much abused. He knew several instances wherein licenses had either been withdrawn or refused from political motives, particularly in those places which were the immediate scene of contested elections. He considered the bill of the highest importance, and therefore he hoped his hon. friend, because he might not think all obtained that he wanted, would not therefore oppose the progress of a bill which promised to effect so many advantages.Mr. Curwen
668 contended, that the system ought to be revised and amended. He knew a case where a judge was consulted in his private character a few days before judgment, and on his giving judgment a few days after, a Welsh attorney held up a paper, saying, "My lord, here is your opinion given to me on such a day, and it is quite contrary to the one now delivered." He was reprimanded, but still persevered, declaring it was a very odd thing the judge should take his money
668Mr. Barham
 said, he felt the force and justice of the observations which had fallen from the hon. gentleman, but yet trusted he would not press the amendment he had proposed. A great amelioration, he admitted, it would be; but as the mischief complained of, arose out of the law as it had long stood, and a great deal had already been done by the bill, which, even as now framed, had not passed through the House without much objection; he thought any material extension of its principle might still further endanger it in another place.Dr. Phillimore
 opposed the clause, on the ground that the House could not pass such a clause on any principle of justice.—Dr. Phillimore
 having moved the third reading of this bill,Dr. Phillimore
 wished to offer to the hon. and learned gentleman a suggestion that did not proceed from himself alone, but which was the general opinion of a number of hon. and learned friends of his, who all agreed with him in approving of the principle of this bill, but who strongly objected to one part of it. That suggestion was, as to the expediency of omitting the second clause, which dispensed with the necessity of parties giving their residences.Mr. Denman
 contended that the Welsh judges had often been appointed more for parliamentary purposes than for the administration of justice. He supported the motion, as he conceived the system required much amelioration.Mr. F. Lewis
 said, he was not disposed to give the bill his support, as its operation would, in his opinion, be very injurious to parishes. He hoped the hon. gentleman would consent to withdraw the clause, which imposes on magistrates, in case of their refusal to grant a license, a written ground for that refusal. The House must see that in certain cases it might be necessary to withhold licenses, without its being necessary to call on magistrates to assign in writing their reasons for such refusal. He objected, however to the bill generally, and should move, that it be read a second time "this day six months."Mr. Cartwright
 entirely concurred with the opinion expressed by his hon. friend, that the bill, in its present form, was most objectionable. There were many cases in which the reasons for withdrawing or withholding licenses could not be assigned either before a bench of justices or a jury.Mr. Sturges Bourne
 disagreed altogether with the hon. gentleman who spoke last, as to the course he suggested. He thought the act of the noble marquis truly great, and his great and noble reward would be found in the thanks of the House and the applause of his country. There was a noble simplicity in the act, which he would wish to let stand on its own merits. No mark of honour that the throne could bestow could raise the noble marquis higher than his own act had done—an act the more truly patriotic and disinterested, when it was considered that the fortune of the noble marquis, though respectable, was not affluent. It was honourable to the feelings of the House, that this was not taken up as a party question—that it was not guided by any part sentiment—but that the universal voice of parliament, echoing as it did the voice of the country, thus proclaimed, its sense of the noble marquis's conduct.Mr. Wilberforce
660 said, he could not let the motion be carried without entering his protest against its precipitate introduction, and the principle it proposed to substitute instead of a better one. He thought the means it afforded of instituting and carrying on suits to avoid impro-
660Sir C. Robinson
 concurred in the object of the resolutions, but recommended his hon. friend to withdraw them, and bring them forward in another shape. A specific measure, founded on the same principles, would, he thought, deserve the approbation of the House.Mr. Scarlett
 said, that under the existing system the will of the magistrate was law—"stat pro ratione voluntas." He hoped, however, the feelings manifested in the House on the clause respecting that class of persons, would induce his hon. friend not to press it, since it might have the effect of causing the bill to be lost, and he should extremely regret if the metropolis were deprived of its advantages.Sir R. Wilson
666 after expressing his opinion of the conduct of the noble
666Mr. Valentine Blake,
674673 said, that he now stood in a situation which he had never experienced before, although he had sat in that House forty years. The petition which he was about to submit to the House was from a body of men entitled to the very first consideration—a body of men who, in the time of public distress and pecuniary want, were the very first to come forward and relieve the government. He should wish to call to the recollection of some members, who he believed now heard him, whether they did not remember a meeting of the merchants and bankers called in 1797? At that time the Bank restriction act was projected, and could not have passed if that very meeting of the merchants, manufacturers, &c. had not expressed themselves strongly in its favour. He begged the House would pay particular attention to the petition which he how held in his hand. It was one of no common character, but that of a great and important body, all of the first respectability, praying that those resolutions which were intended to be submitted to the House might not be carried into effect. He begged leave to state his opinion, that the petitioners were the best judges of such a measure. He would add also, that although they were inti-
674673Sir Robert peel
675 could not allow some of the hon. baronet's observations to pass unnoticed. One of his charges was, that the committee had not consulted those whom the hon. baronet thought best qualified to judge of the question. He presumed the hon. member could not have read the evidence: if he had, he must have formed a very different estimate of the merit and character of those gentlemen who were examined, to what he (sir J. S.) and he believed the majority of the House had formed. Besides, were manufactures and merchants the only persons so qualified? Did it follow as a matter of course that no others were competent? Then as to what the hon. baronet had said about Messrs. Hunt and Wooler, certainly he (Sir J. S.) was no follower of those gentlemen; but he looked at measures, not men. Now, he understood, them to have said this—
675Sir John Sebright
676 admitted that gentlemen
676Mr. Marryat
sl702l701ad infinitumsl700699698697dsdsdsdsdsdsdsdsds696695694693llll692vice versa691slldsldslsl690l689dsl688687slsl686685684683lllllll682ll681l680679678677† then rose and said, that in this instance he was placed in such a situation as peculiarly to justify his appeal to the House for a patient hearing; for as chairman of the committee appointed to investigate the affairs of the Bank, he was about to perform a great and difficult public duty, in calling its attention to a subject of as much importance as ever occupied the consideration of that House. This subject was indeed of universal interest, comprehending as it did the various concerns of an important corporate body, while it referred to the most minute regulations and the most humble transactions in the country. Important as it was, it involved principles so abstruse in their nature, and rested on details so complex and uninviting, as to be but ill calculated for fixing the minds of a popular assembly. It had likewise been exhausted by the great abilities already applied to it on other occasions and in other places; and, under these circumstances, to add either novelty or attractiveness to the question, would be, on his part, a hopeless undertaking. The committee of which he had the honour to be chairman, had been engaged for a considerable time in examining all the principles and details connected with this abstract and abstruse question; and if in bringing forward the resolutions which that committee thought proper to adopt, he should be betrayed into any erroneous observations, he begged that such error might be regarded as his own. With this delicate
sl702l701ad infinitumsl700699698697dsdsdsdsdsdsdsdsds696695694693llll692vice versa691slldsldslsl690l689dsl688687slsl686685684683lllllll682ll681l680679678677†Mr. Peel
740739738737 said, that he would not content himself with a silent vote on the present occasion, lest it might be imputed to him, that he gave merely a sullen acquiescence in the plan proposed by his right hon. friend. So far from that, it received his most cordial approbation, persuaded as he was, that it was admirably calculated to insure that most desirable object, the resumption of cash payments. Had he felt differently, he trusted that he should have had the candour to express his opinion without reserve. He had always been of opinion, that it was highly advisable, that the restriction should be removed whenever the commercial and political relations of the country, rendered such a measure safe and practicable; and it was on that ground, that he had, on a former occasion, proposed to the House a resolution to that effect. Such was still his opinion; front that opinion he should never deviate; and, therefore, he could not be charged with inconsistency on that score. He had never argued or imagined that this country could, with safety, persist in upholding a paper circulation, without a fixed standard of value; contrary to the practice of every other nation. The committee, at the commencement of their deliberations, had determined to avoid all theoretical reasonings, and to address themselves to the practical part of the question. That was the course which he intended individually to take on the present occasion. He by no means wished to shrink from any opinions which he had formerly avowed; but he begged that the House would take those opinions from the printed documents, from the resolutions on their journals, which he had had the honour of proposing to parliament, and from his own recorded arguments, and not from the representations of those, who, without much regard to candour or civility, had chosen to state them for him. The extraordinary pressure of the times had rendered a temporary suspension of metallic payments (however the necessity of such a deviation from ancient principles might be regretted) wise and politic; but he could assure the House, that the object of government had always been a return to cash payments as soon as possible. The question therefore was not whether they should or should not return to cash payments; but what was the fittest opportunity, and most convenient mode
740739738737The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 suggested, that as there was but little hope of the House being able to come to a decision on this important question that night, it might be more satisfactory to the worthy alderman himself that the debate should be now adjourned till to-morrow, when he would have a more favourable opportunity of stating his views to the House.Lord Castlereagh
lls748lll747lll746dsllldsldsl745744743 said, he was fully persuaded of the truth of the declaration of the hon. director, that the Bank wished to resume cash payments, but he was just as fully persuaded that they did not know how to set about it. When called before the committee, the directors individually admitted that the price of bullion and the rate of exchanges were affected by the amount of their issues; but when collected in their own court they resolved that "they conceive it to be "their duty to declare, that they are unable to discover any solid foundation for such a sentiment." And now, in the Remonstrance which they have made to the chancellor of the exchequer, they again admit that the exchanges are affected by their issues, for they condemn the measure recommended by the committee for restoring the exchange to par, on the ground of its being calculated to force them to contract the amount of their circulation, which they represent as fatal to the public interest. When they avowed such inconsistent opinions, and after the
lls748lll747lll746dsllldsldsl745744743Mr. Ricardo
sl705lllllll704ldslsl703 rose to propose an amendment. Though it might appear presumptuous in him to claim the attention of the House, after the very able speech of the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down; yet he could assure them, that he rose with no presumptuous feelings, but he thought it due to himself to state his objections to the proposed resolution. When he did so, he did it from no hostility to the general principles of the report. In those general principles, so ably stated, and so eloquently illustrated by the right hon. gentleman, he entirely concurred; and he had offered himself to the House in opposition to two of the resolutions, not because he differed from their general object, but because he did not agree to the application of them to the actual state of things. He would not weaken the force of the right hon. gentleman's statements or reasonings by repeating them. They would meet with, general concurrence. The opposition to them arose from an idea that the application of the principles of the report would be inexpedient at the present time; but it happened unfortunately that those who enforced that inexpediency, specified no time when it would cease, and the return to cash payments be effected with safety. He could mention, from his acquaintance with business, several circumstances which would confirm the able statements of the right hon. gentleman. The difficulties and distress of 1816 were fresh in the recollection of all. Great, however, as those difficulties were, he wished that the remedies applied by the chancellor of the exchequer had been avoided. In consequence of the great exports of 1814 and 1815 gold had been brought into the country. Its price accordingly fell, and continued to fall, till 1817. The distresses of the country gradually disappeared, and every thing began to wear a smiling aspect. To counteract this favourable and improving state of things, towards the middle of 1817 the issues of the Bank became again excessive, produced an artificial prosperity, encouraged speculation, and led to the overtrading which had since produced so much embarrassment and the consequences of which, he was afraid, we were only yet beginning to feel. The right hon. gentleman had well stated, that the common people derived no benefit from this tem-
sl705lllllll704ldslsl703Mr. Ellice
736Te Deum735l734llllll733||ll732l731730729728dslsldsl727sldsl726dsldslsl725724 said he had heard with the utmost satisfaction the able and eloquent speech of the right hon. gentleman who had proposed to the House the resolutions which they were that evening called upon to discuss. He could assure that right hon. gentleman that if a compliment from so humble an individual as himself could give him any gratification, he would gladly offer it: but in truth he was afraid to do so, lest he should be thought to be paying a compliment to the principles which himself and many of the friends around him had been advocating for a long series of years. It was, however, a source of sincere pleasure to him to hear those maxims for which he had so long been contending avowed as maxims of true policy in that House, especially as such ample justice had been done to them by the right hon. gentleman who had now, for the first time; adopted them. He had
736Te Deum735l734llllll733||ll732l731730729728dslsldsl727sldsl726dsldslsl725724Mr. Tierney
672 rose and said:—Mr. Speaker—The duty I am called on to discharge is one of the most painful I had ever imposed on me in the many and eventful years during which I have sat in parliament. I intreat the attention of the noble lord and the House to the statement I have to make on the part of the Cotton Weavers of the city of Carlisle. The petition is signed by upwards of 1,200 persons. It discloses a state of Suffering which cannot fail of commanding the pity and commiseration of all within and without the walls. They represent, that on working from 14 to 17 hours a clay, and that for six days in the week, their earnings do not amount to more than from five to seven shillings, and that many of them can obtain no work whatever. They state their families to be destitute of necessary food and cloathing, and a prey to misery and disease. Afflicting as is the present moment, the future presents no rational hope of amendment. They blame not their employers,—the depreciated state of the Cotton manufacture is the true cause of their sufferings. These industrious, honest, and unfortunate individuals, from their long, patient, and calamitous endurance, are so bent to the earth, so spirit-broken, as to be compelled to petition this House, as a boon, that which bespeaks the extinction of one of the most powerful feelings of the human heart. In despair of obtaining bread at home, they ask you to expatriate them—to convey them to your colonies. In ceasing to be inhabitants of Britain, it will yet be some consolation to promote the interests of the country that gave them birth,—grievous as it must be to sacrifice all ties of kindred and affection, rather than continue to exist on bounty, exhausting the sources of benevolence to
672Mr. Curwen
minusl713s.;712§711710ss709dslds708707706 said, that he felt at least as much reason to entreat the indulgence of the House as the last speaker. He assured the House, that he would be as short as it was possible for him in explaining the nature of the objections he made to the resolutions proposed by the committee. Feeling himself bound by
minusl713s.;712§711710ss709dslds708707706Mr. J. P. Grant
 expressed his unwillingness to let the idea go forth that the petition presented by the hon. baronet was what it purported to be, namely, that of the merchants, bankers, and traders of London, as not one fourth of that body had subscribed to it; nor, in point of fact, was there any reason to believe that any material proportion of that respectable body acquiesced in its views. With respect to the declaration of the hon. baronet, that the witnesses adduced before the committee were not competent to judge upon this question, as it concerned the interests of trade, he concurred with his hon. friend who spoke last, in thinking that the hon. baronet had not read the report of the evidence, where he might have found the names and depositions of able and respectable merchants, Mr. Alexander Baring, together with those of six Directors of the Bank, and of Mr. Took, who was one of the first practical merchants in the empire. Could it then be stated with fairness, that the committee had not examined competent or practical men upon this interesting question?Mr. Grenfell
 then addressed the chair, but the impatience of the House produced a temporary confusion, in the midst of which, after one or two observations, the worthy alderman sat down.Mr. Alderman Heygate
742ss741ll said, he had to plead the example of an hon. member who had preceded him, for referring to what had passed in another place. Much stress had been laid in that place by a noble earl on a paper which was" presented to the House, containing a calculation of the number of days during which all notes from 1742ss741llMr. Manning
723l722l721l720dsdsldsdsldsdsl719dsldsll718dslll717ldsl716715 assured the committee, that he felt too strongly how ineffective any thing he could say must be, after the splendid speech of his right hon. friend, to trouble them at any length upon the great question' before them. In the results come to by the secret committee, of which his right hon. friend had been the worthy chairman, he most completely agreed; there was not a sentence in the report which was not a fair deduction from the evidence taken before the committee, intricate as it was, and difficult as it undoubtedly had been to sift and compare in all its parts. He most cordially agreed with his right hon. friend in all that he had said of the temper which had been manifested by the members of the secret committee during its long and laborious investigations; nor should he do justice to the right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Tierney) and his friends, were he not to say, that nothing could have been more manly, honest, and assiduous, than their conduct in the committee during the three months of its sitting. They appeared determined to forget all party feeling, and to unite in endeavouring to discover the best means of benefitting the country. But, although he cordially concurred in the report of the committee, he felt that he should not act candidly if he did not declare, that, for one, he should have been most willing to have had the report, and the present resolutions framed in the spirit of the amendment moved by the hon. gentleman opposite, had he thought that that could have been done consistently with the duty of the committee to the House and the country, after the paper which the Bank director sent into the committee in answer to the two questions which had been proposed to them. He felt the greatest respect for the directors of the Bank of England, and believed that they were actuated by the best motives; but he would leave it to any member of the House, or any candid man in the country to say whether, after the production of the paper to which he had alluded, the committee could with consistency or propriety, have left it to the Bank to determine when, and under what circumstances, the payments in cash should be resumed.723l722l721l720dsdsldsdsldsdsl719dsldsll718dslll717ldsl716715Mr. Wellesley Pole
"The kind and flattering manner in which you, Sir, have been so good, as to express your sentiments upon this occasion, demands my peculiar acknowledgments, and I request you to accept my most sincere and cordial thanks.—I have the honour to be, &c. CAMDEN."671"I trust, Sir, I feel, as becomes me, the high and distinguished honour conferred upon me, by the approbation which the House has been pleased to express, of the conduct I have pursued, in devoting to the exigencies of the state, a part of the emoluments received by me, as one of the tellers of his majesty's exchequer: an office, most graciously conferred upon me by his majesty, in consideration of the public services of my father; and, if I fail in the attempt to express, as I feel, the deep and lasting impression made upon my mind, from having been thought worthy of so marked and honourable a
671Sir;—I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 22nd instant, communicating to me a resolution of the House of Commons, unanimously agreed to on Friday last."Arlington Street, May 23rd, 1819. reported the marquis Camden's Answer to his letter concerning the Resolutions of the House of Friday last, as follows:
"The kind and flattering manner in which you, Sir, have been so good, as to express your sentiments upon this occasion, demands my peculiar acknowledgments, and I request you to accept my most sincere and cordial thanks.—I have the honour to be, &c. CAMDEN."671"I trust, Sir, I feel, as becomes me, the high and distinguished honour conferred upon me, by the approbation which the House has been pleased to express, of the conduct I have pursued, in devoting to the exigencies of the state, a part of the emoluments received by me, as one of the tellers of his majesty's exchequer: an office, most graciously conferred upon me by his majesty, in consideration of the public services of my father; and, if I fail in the attempt to express, as I feel, the deep and lasting impression made upon my mind, from having been thought worthy of so marked and honourable a
671Sir;—I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 22nd instant, communicating to me a resolution of the House of Commons, unanimously agreed to on Friday last."Arlington Street, May 23rd, 1819.The Speaker
763d.s.l.762s.,s.s.761 said, the House had resolved that it was expedient to return to specie payments as early as should be practicable; and they were now called upon to adopt the plan of the member for Portarlington, which went to provide that there should be no specie at all. The right hon. mover had professed himself unable to form an abstract idea of a pound sterling; and he proposed that the holder of a pound note should rest his confidence on an abstract idea of some other man's power of abstracting from the Bank a portion of its gold for the purpose of exportation, to no participation of which was his note to give him any title. The right hon. gentleman had, in no part of his speech, produced more effect, than by his citation from the 231st, 232nd and
763d.s.l.762s.,s.s.761Mr. Gurney
771770d.d.s.l.l.l.l.769l.l.l.l.768l.s.;l.l.d.,s.l.s.;l.d.s.l.s.l.767d.s.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.766s.l.765764 observed, that he had that morning referred to that most excellent work, alluded to in the speech of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Peel) last night, the work of the late lord Liverpool on coins; and he felt it necessary to say, that a different interpretation was given by the right hon. gentleman, both to the principle acted upon when the standard of value was fixed in the reigns of Edward the 1st, and queen Elizabeth, and to the observation of lord Liverpool thereon. It was true, that the measures of that period were the subject of rejoicing with the country, but it was not that the standard of value was raised, but that a fixed one was adopted. The great evils then felt, were similar to those under which the country during the Bank restriction suffered, namely, that nothing was certain or permanent, but that the standard fluctuated with the wants and distresses of
771770d.d.s.l.l.l.l.769l.l.l.l.768l.s.;l.l.d.,s.l.s.;l.d.s.l.s.l.767d.s.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.766s.l.765764Lord Folkestone
l.773l.d.s.l.s.,l.772 said, that the arguments against the principle of the present measure, had been so fully met last night, that it was unnecessary to say any thing more on that head. The House had heard much of the alarm which prevailed on this question. Now, whatever was the cause of this alarm, it was the duty of the House to allay it as soon as possible. It was admitted on all hands, that whenever a measure of this kind was adopted, it would produce a shock in the country; and if so, it was the duty of parliament to render it as slight as possible. It had been the fashion of late to abuse the Bank directors and the plans adopted by them for some time past. The noble lord who spoke last was of an opinion, that the Bank directors would use their efforts to prevent a return to cash payments. He wished to know how the Bank directors could be so far interested as to do this? If it was shown to him that the directors were holders of Bank stock to an immense amount, he would agree that they had an interest in opposing such a measure. But the fact was otherwise. There was not a single director who was a holder of stock to a larger amount than was necessary by the charter, to his filling his situation. If there was any direct or tangible charge to be made against the directors of the Bank, let it be brought forward; but let them not be attacked on such vague and indefinite grounds as those already stated. When the Bank had issued between six and seven millions of specie, at a loss, he could see no reason for suspecting that they were not sincere in their desire to resume cash payments. The experiment had been tried, and had failed. It was then very easy to say, "this is a bad measure." But, if the Bank directors had previously come to the House and said, "Is it not better, before we proceed to a general measure, that we
l.773l.d.s.l.s.,l.772Mr. Cripps
 said, that the best course for the hon. gentleman to pursue, with respect to his amendment, as there was already an amendment before the committee, would be to vote against the 4th and 5th resolutions, when the question was put upon them.The Chairman
787l.786785d.s.d.s.784†783782d.s.l.781 said:—Mr. Brogden; I am one of those who have always contended, that the currency of this country could never be placed on a solid foundation, till the notes of the Bank of England were again convertible into specie, at the will of the holder. This doctrine I have hitherto maintained in very small minorities, but have now the satisfaction of finding that it is generally, I might almost say universally, admitted and acknowledged. Eight years ago I moved in this House for a return of the exchequer bills purchased by the Bank of England. My motion was opposed by the chancellor of the exchequer and the Bank directors, and of course negatived: but I now see it asserted in the Report, of the secret committee (of which the chancellor of the exchequer and the Bank directors, who took the leading part in opposing my motion, were members), that it is "necessary to limit and define the authority of the Bank to purchase exchequer bills, and to bring under the constant inspection of parliament the extent to which that authority may be exercised." Another Bank director has this evening admitted, that this practice occasions an issue of Bank notes not called for by the necessities of the public, as well as places their funds out of the reach of their own control. It is gratifying thus to find, that truth and reason, however they may be opposed, and for a time obstructed in their progress, will ultimately prevail. Much as I admired the speech of the right hon. gentleman, the chairman of the secret committee, who proposed the resolutions now under consideration, I could not but think it defective in one respect; that he declined entering into any detail, respecting the plan of obliging the Bank to pay in bullion on a graduated scale of prices at different periods. This plan is altogether novel and unprecedented; and therefore certainly required some explanation. It also appears to me, not only to be liable to various objections that have been urged against it, but to be exceptionable in point of principle; for I can see no just reason why the creditors of the Bank should accept payment in bullion, at a higher price than that at which the Bank are bound by law to discharge their notes in the legal coin of the realm. This plan, seems to give the Bank an opportunity of taking advantage, either of the fears or the necessities of its creditors; for those who call for payment in bullion at once,
787l.786785d.s.d.s.784†783782d.s.l.781Mr. Marryat
796s.l.per saltum,s.l.d.s.l.795794793792791 said, he had listened to the course of the debate with the utmost attention and had been anxious to reserve himself for a later period of the night, that he might not only receive information from the views of others who thought with him, but that he might offer answers to the objections that might be started. As, however, those objections were few, and not likely to increase, and as a favourable opportunity seemed now to offer itself, he could not refrain from making such observations as occurred to him. In adverting to the importance of the measure, he did not place it in too high a scale when he said, that no question of greater interest to all classes of the community had ever called for the deliberation of parliament. He was sorry to observe, that a degree of alarm prevailed out of doors, and he could find nothing in the tenor of the measure now proposed to justify it: at the same time, the House would not be surprised, if, on a subject of such vital moment, a degree of anxiety prevailed in the country, taking in its first impression the colour of alarm. He saw nothing in the plan but what ought to inspire confidence; and only a short time would, he was convinced be necessary to bring the public mind to a correct view of the question. It was not at all extraordinary that a peculiar degree of agitation should prevail at a moment when the pecuniary concerns of so many individuals were involved in the result, of the nature and effects of which they were not yet in a situation to judge. Under these circumstances, it became the bounden duty of parliament to lay before the nation a full and fair statement of the subject. It was in vain to suppose that commercial affairs could be conducted in a beneficial train of exertion until the public could ascertain what was the real condition of the national finances. It was not to be supposed that any lasting check had been given to our means of prosperity. True
796s.l.per saltum,s.l.d.s.l.795794793792791Lord Castlereagh
d.s.l.d.,s.ls.l.d.,s.l.799 to reply. He said he was not desirous to trouble the House with
d.s.l.d.,s.ls.l.d.,s.l.799Mr. Peel rose
800 appealed to the House to corroborate him in the statement, that throughout the examination of this question he had never manifested a wish to obtrude his observations on the House. But he hoped it was not now a question whether the House were to acknowledge the principle of a necessity for the country to return as soon as possible to cash payments by an undivided vote, which would of course produce more effect in tranquillising men's minds than any reasoning, however satisfactory, or any majority, however triumphant, on a division. An undivided vote upon the principle at least was become, from recent events, more necessary than ever, to show the public that the House was in earnest in its attempts to restore the ancient standard, of
800Mr. Canning
 continued. If he were then to understand that the opposition made by the hon. member was withdrawn, he would give one of the most satisfactory proofs of his sincerity in wishing for the adoption of the principle, by not attempting to occupy the time of the House any longer.Mr. Canning
 agreed to withdraw his opposition; and Mr. Manning also concurred in this proceeding, reserving to himself, however, the right of stating his objections to the proposed measures on a future occasion.Mr. Cripps
 said, that undoubtedly the acquiescence on this occasion of his hon. friend who spoke last, would not preclude him from expressing his dissent from any of the details of the bill which would be brought forward, founded upon the resolutions of the committee. But he would take the assent of his hon. friend and others in this instance, as nothing less than an acquiescence in the unanimous determination of parliament, that the country should return, as speedily as possible, to the ancient standard of value in the establishment of a metallic currency [loud and universal cries of hear, hear!].Mr. Canning
 said, he did not rise to obtrude on the committee his sentiments on this subject, as they were already known: he was not anxious to state the reasons which induced him. to vote for this measure, or to scrutinize the reasons which actuated others; but he rose to conjure the committee, if they valued the effect which their decision on this subject would have on the country, to give a patient hearing to every gentleman who wished to state his opinions on the plan proposed, more especially to those who dissented from the resolutions. One effect of their unanimity that night would be lost, if any grounds were given for supposing that it had been obtained either by members suppressing their own opinions, or what was worse, by clamouring down the opinions of others [Loud cheers.]Mr. Canning
779, in explanation, denied his having said that the Bank were insincere in their declarations. He meant no personal hostility to them, as individuals, or as a public body; but be was of opinion,
779Mr. Ricardo
797 hoped, that the House would indulge him with a hearing for a few minutes, whilst he endeavoured, in justice to his own character, to set himself right with regard to an allusion which had been made to him by the right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer. It was true that he had been one of a deputation
797Mr. Ellice
798 then with the leave of the House withdrew his amendment.—Lord Milton attempted to address the House, but the confusion was so great, and the calls of "question" so loud and reiterated, that in a few moments he sat down.—Mr. Marryat, and several other members, offered themselves to the committee; but the clamour was so great, that it was impossible to hear what was said. In the midst of this confusion, Mr. W. Smith
798Mr. Ellice
790l.,789 said, that having been
790l.,789Mr. Abercromby
 shortly addressed the committee. He objected to the repayment of the ten millions to the Bank, as likely to be attended with inconvenience. He also objected to the 4th and 5th resolutions.Mr. Irving
778 contended, that for thirty years the Bank had not taken a single step which ought to expose them to the slightest distrust on the part of the public; and denied the assertion of an hon. gentleman opposite, that they were not competent to the conduct of their own affairs. With respect to any evils that might be apprehended on the subject under the consideration of the committee, as far as the Bank directors had power they would endeavour, as they always had endeavoured in similar circumstances, to prevent them. It had been said, that the Bank Directors had no serious wish to return to cash payments. He declared most solemnly, that from the moment of the restriction to the present hour, in all the conversations which he had held with every one of the directors, there was but one hope expressed, namely, that the time for the resumption of cash payments might speedily arrive. Of this fact, the conduct of the Bank three years ago, in commencing payments in gold (by which they sustained a considerable loss), afforded sufficient proof. For himself, he looked with confident expectation to see such a favourable state of exchange produced by natural causes, that the Bank would have no necessity to reduce their issues in order to perform the operation required of them. On that subject, in what a condition was the Bank placed! By one party they were told, that if they did not contract their issues, the price of gold would remain too high; by another, that if they did contract their issues, the commerce of the country would be cramped. Thus situated, it was impossible that the Bank could act tightly in the opinion of a large portion of that House. He was happy to say, that that establishment stood in higher estimation out of
778Mr. Pearse
777776l.l.l.l.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.775s.;l.774 said, he never contemplated any question with half the anxiety with which he approached the present. Though he approved of the resolutions, the course which he should have recommended would have been that of continued confidence in the directors of the Bank. He did not deny that they might have committed errors; but when he looked back on their past conduct, he saw much to approve, and little to censure— much to excite gratitude, and nothing to destroy confidence. He would not say that they had saved the country during the war; but he would say, that by the assistance they lent at critical periods, they had powerfully contributed to its preservation and glory. He, therefore, could hear nothing against them without interposing his feeble tribute of applause. The reports in circulation against them were as false as they were injurious. In their mode of conducting the business of the establishment they had shown no personal selfishness. He might mention, what he believed the country did not know, that there was not one of the Bank
777776l.l.l.l.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.775s.;l.774Mr. J. Smith
 remarked, that it could not with justice be said that the present plan came by surprise on the Bank, because from the sentiments uniformly expressed on this subject by parliament, as well as from the general principles of justice, the Bank must have known that they would be required at some time to pay their debts. The only question really before the House was, whether the present plan was the best calculated to attain that object, and whether the time proposed was the most proper? He trusted that no member of that House would countenance a supposition that the Bank alone were competent to determine the period fit for the discharge of their engagements to the public. He congratulated the hon. gentlemen on his side of the House, at finding the opinions for which they had encountered obloquy and struggled in vain, now adopted almost unanimously by those who formerly opposed them.Mr. Peter Moore
788 maintained, that the evidence which had been adduced before the committee was sufficient to show that the report had not been drawn up without the aid of practical men, and that it did not materially differ from the result of their experience. As to the idea of the committee dictating to the Bank, he repelled it with the greatest indignation. If the Bank would pay its notes in specie on demand, it might attend as much as it pleased to the convenience or interests of the commercial world—so far it might safely go but no farther: the instant the company stepped beyond a certain limit in the exercise of its discretion, it stepped too far. Last night a Bank Director had pleaded very pathetically for the allowance of a general discretion as to the issue of notes; but would the House concede to the Bank of England a power it refused to the crown? Since the reign of Henry 1st, parliament had deprived even the king of the right to alter the standard of the currency; and what reason could be assigned for permitting the Bank, by the expansion or contrac-
788Mr. Frankland Lewis
 expressed an opinion different from that of the report of the committee, with regard to the degree of confidence which ought to be reposed in the Bank; for it ought, in his judgment, to be left to the discretion of the Bank to decide at what period the resumption of cash payments should commence, and thus a sufficient opportunity would be afforded to the directors of that corporation to prepare for such resumption. This course of proceeding was, in his view, the more expedient, considering the circumstances in which the Bank was placed; those circumstances being materially different from any period heretofore, when this question was brought under the consideration of parliament. With regard to preparations for the resumption of cash payments, he was decidedly of opinion, that instead of purchasing bullion, the provision of that article should rather be left to the natural operations of trade. On his part, he had no hesitation in declaring, that the Bank was as fully competent, as well as willing, to resume cash payments, if left to the exercise of its own discretion, as the country was to surmount all its difficulties, if its intrinsic energies were duly excited and judiciously directed.Mr. T. Wilson
757l.l.l.,756755754s.l.l.l.,753s.l.s.l.l.,d.s.l.l.,752l.;l.l.;l.s.751|| said, he should experience great embarrassment in opening the debate, did he not feel the vast importance of the subject to the comfort and subsistence of the people, and that on such a topic the fascinations of wit and eloquence served rather to bewilder, than to guide the judgment. The question was one of practical importance and on which practical men were most competent to give that information which the nature of the subject required. There was no man in that House, or throughout the country, who more deeply regretted the present state of our currency than himself; no one who more deeply regretted our departure from its ancient standard. Had he sat in the House at the time that the Bank restriction act was first proposed, he should have opposed it, not only on account of the innovation which it constituted upon our former system, but on account also of the fatal consequences which he should have foreseen would inevitably follow. But that restriction was then the consequence, right or wrong, of a war which this country chose to wage, and which, had it continued one month longer would have been her ruin. On the subject before the House, he felt that the opinions he entertained, although they were lately those of parliament and of his majesty's ministers, were not such as were at present popular. He well knew that it was generally held, that our paper was depreciated to a certain extent. He could only say, that great as the authorities, and splendid as the names were, which were cited in the Bank report, as supporters of that opinion; yet his own research and inquiry, which had been extensive and unremitting, had convinced him, not only that no such depreciation did now exist, but that it never could
757l.l.l.,756755754s.l.l.l.,753s.l.s.l.l.,d.s.l.l.,752l.;l.l.;l.s.751||Mr. Alderman Heygate
 agreed with the last hon. member, that the Bank directors were sincere in their declarations for the resumption of cash payments. If any doubt arose on that head, gentlemen need only refer to the period when the Bank issued some millions of sovereigns in addition to the circulating medium of the country. If, however, the directors had evinced the regard and anxiety for the public which they now professed, all those sovereigns would not have so suddenly disappeared, and the public embarrassments would have been prevented. The hon. director, speaking, no doubt, the sentiments of his brother directors, had stigmatized a set of men by terming them jobbers and gamblers. They could not prevent jobbers and gamblers; as the persons so denominated were only imitating their superiors. He confessed his astonishment at the objections of the Bank directors to the graduated scale recommended by the committee, because he believed, that had the directors been left to themselves, the plan now under consideration would have been that which they would have adopted. In the discharge of every moral obligation commercially, this country had always stood higher than any other in the world. Parliament was now acting with its usual wisdom in recommending the adoption of the present measure to the Bank. It would revive public credit, and produce that confidence in the Bank which they had never before experienced. The opinions within these walls were highly favourable to the Bank of England; but the opinions without doors, fostered by the clamours which had been noticed, were dangerous to public credit. The hon. gentleman said, that the difference of exchanges arose from an excess of Bank-notes. It was therefore necessary to compel the Bank by an act of parliament to resume cash payments at a given period. The profits of the directors, by discounts, and the power of government securities, were sufficient to answer every temporary inconvenience on the part of the Bank. A proper understanding of the question, and the speedy decision of the House, would allay the fears and alarms of the country; and the people would rejoice when they found that sound principles of political economy were sanctioned by parliament.Mr. Wilmot
760759s.,l.s.l.s.l.758s.l.s.l. said, that he felt the propriety of stating the grounds upon which he was urged to oppose the amendment proposed by his hon. friend the member for Coventry, and supported by his right hon. friend the member for Knaresborough. Having for a series of years given all the consideration in his power to the question before the House, he thought it his duty to make some remarks upon the present occasion. As to the speech of the hon. member who spoke last, as nearly the whole of it was founded on the assertion, that there had been no depreciation of the Bank paper currency, no one could expect that at this period it could be necessary to go into any elaborate disquisition to reply to it. Those, indeed, who were not already convinced, by the facts adduced and the arguments advanced in that House, could be little likely to attend to any farther elucidation. In respect to what the hon. member had said of the probable bad effects of the proposed plan, the whole of his case was founded on a misrepresentation of the plan, and upon a supposition that things would certainly happen, that never could happen. But to return to a consideration of the merit of the amendment; it was quite a fallacy to maintain that which was offered in its favour, namely, that the effect of the prescription to pay Bank notes in gold, at the rate of 4760759s.,l.s.l.s.l.758s.l.s.l.Sir H. Parnell
s.l. stated, that from the great hardship felt by the unequal pressure of the county rates in Ireland, in consequence of their being levied according to surveys taken in some instances a century and a half ago, and in others according to customs peculiar to those counties in which no survey existed: he conceived it of the utmost importance that a revision of the system by which so large a sum as 900,000s.l.Mr. Chichester
 briefly expressed his as-sent to the measure.Mr. C. Grant
 said, he had no objection to any means by which the object he had in view, might be attained at less expense.Mr. Chichester
 was of opinion that unless government took the management of the business into their hands, it would not be found practicable. The hon. mover could not expect members to agree to a measure of so important a nature without being made acquainted with its machinery. He therefore trusted that he would have no objection to adopt the suggestion of his hon. friend, and let the bill lie over till the next session.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
815Prælia. Nunquam omnes hodie moriemur multi."Reddite me Danais; sinite instaurata revisamArma, viri, ferte arma; vocat lux ultima victos.Alterum, in alterius mactatos sanguine cernam?Eripis, ut mediis hostem in penetralibus, utque Ascanium, patremque meum, juxtaque Creusam,"Hoc erat; alma parens quod me per tela, per ignes.814||813812811810809808807, in rising to make the motion of which he had given notice, relative to the cession of Parga, said, that except the duty which a care for the safety of his own country imposed on him, there was none which he more willingly undertook, than that which he had to discharge that evening. He had to call on the House in behalf of a people who were to be deprived of all that made civil society valuable, protection for person and property, and the free exercise of religion. The people of Parga were now in possession of these privileges—he could not say in, the enjoyment of them, for by the imprudence of the noble lord opposite at the Congress, they were soon in danger of being slaughtered ignominiously by their cruel enemies the Turks, or leaving their country, receiving a compulsory and inadequate compensation for the goods they left behind; leaving their land to be shared among their foes, and their Christian churches to be polluted with Mahometan ceremonies. If he had not strength of mind to impress on the House all the circumstances which weighed in favour of the inhabitants of Parga, he hoped he should be able to state enough to persuade the House, that they were called upon in an especial manner, by the generosity and justice which should actuate them towards other states, and especially towards small
815Prælia. Nunquam omnes hodie moriemur multi."Reddite me Danais; sinite instaurata revisamArma, viri, ferte arma; vocat lux ultima victos.Alterum, in alterius mactatos sanguine cernam?Eripis, ut mediis hostem in penetralibus, utque Ascanium, patremque meum, juxtaque Creusam,"Hoc erat; alma parens quod me per tela, per ignes.814||813812811810809808807Sir C. Monck
818817 said, he felt disposed
818817Lord Castlereagh
 objected to the bill, on the ground that by preventing the manufacture of cheap hosiery it would throw upwards of 3,000 individuals out of employment. If it was necessary to encourage the manufacture of hosiery of a better sort, let a mark be fixed upon them by law. If his objections could be removed in a committee, he was willing to support the principle of the bill: if not, he should oppose it altogether.Mr. Hume
 said, that if the effects of the bill were such as the hon. member apprehended, the House would scout it. He hoped he was not the man that would introduce such a bill. No man felt more than he did for the distresses of the people: their present misery was painful to the feelings of every humane heart. The bill was intended for their relief, and he hoped the hon. member would change his opinion on the subject in the committee.Mr. Mansfield
 said, that the bill was an experiment, and unfriendly as he was to legislative interference on subjects like the present, he would support it, because he felt that the people were reduced to a state of such terrible distress, that it was proper to agree to any measure of alleviation that would afford them consolation.Mr. John Smith
 supported the bill, on the ground that it was necessary to support the character of our manufactures on the continent.Mr. Wilson
 said, he did not altogether agree in the principle of the bill, but he would reserve his observations for a future discussion.Mr. Ricardo
 contended, that the bill, so far from having the effect of turning persons out of employment, would have directly a contrary effect.Mr. Peter Moore
820 did not mean to follow the example of the two last speakers, by entering at present into a discussion on the merits of this question, with a warmth which he conceived uncalled for at present. Those who had attended to the speeches of the hon. members must feel surprised that they should first condemn the cession of Parga, as an act of perfidy, and in the next sentence admit that they were not in possession of facts on which to ground their opinions. How could gentlemen, arguing in support of justice, adopt such a line of conduct, without having facts to go upon? When the measure came to be discussed, as it must be,
820Mr. Goulburn
9. "That it is expedient to repeal the laws, prohibiting the melting and the exportation of the coin of the realm."8. "That from the 1st May 1823, the Bank shall pay its notes, on demand, in the legal coin of the realm.804d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.7. "That the Bank may, at any period between the 1st February 1820, and the 1st October 1820, undertake to deliver gold of standard fineness, assayed and stamped as before mentioned, at any rate between the sums of 4804d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.6. "That from the 1st May 1821, the Bank shall be liable to deliver, on demand, gold of standard fineness, assayed and stamped as before mentioned, a quantity of not less than sixty ounces being required in exchange for such an amount of notes as shall be equal in value to the gold so required, at the rate of 3d.s.l.d.s.l.5. "That from the 1st October, 1820, the Bank shall be liable to deliver, on demand, gold of standard fineness, assayed and stamped as before mentioned, a quantify of not less than sixty ounces being required in exchange for such an amount of notes as shall be equal to the value of the gold so required, at the rate of 3d.s.l.s.l.4. "That it is expedient to provide, by Jaw, that from the 1st February 1820, he Bank shall be liable to deliver, on demand, gold of standard fineness, having been assayed and stamped at his Majesty's mint, a quantity of not less than sixty ounces being required in exchange for such an amount of notes of the Bank as shall be equal to the value of the gold so required, at the rate of 4s.l.3. "That in order to give to the Bank a greater control over the issues of heir notes than they at present possess, provision ought to be made, for the gradual repayment to the Bank of the sum of ten millions; being part of the sum due to the Bank, on account of advances made by them for the public service, end on account of the purchase of exchequer bills under the authority of acts of the legislature.2. "That it is expedient that a definite period should be fixed for the termination of the restriction on cash payments; and that preparatory measures should be taken, with a view to facilitate and ensure, on the arrival of that period, the payment of the promissory notes of the Bank of England, in the legal coin of the realm.8031. "That it is expedient to continue
803
9. "That it is expedient to repeal the laws, prohibiting the melting and the exportation of the coin of the realm."8. "That from the 1st May 1823, the Bank shall pay its notes, on demand, in the legal coin of the realm.804d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.7. "That the Bank may, at any period between the 1st February 1820, and the 1st October 1820, undertake to deliver gold of standard fineness, assayed and stamped as before mentioned, at any rate between the sums of 4804d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.6. "That from the 1st May 1821, the Bank shall be liable to deliver, on demand, gold of standard fineness, assayed and stamped as before mentioned, a quantity of not less than sixty ounces being required in exchange for such an amount of notes as shall be equal in value to the gold so required, at the rate of 3d.s.l.d.s.l.5. "That from the 1st October, 1820, the Bank shall be liable to deliver, on demand, gold of standard fineness, assayed and stamped as before mentioned, a quantify of not less than sixty ounces being required in exchange for such an amount of notes as shall be equal to the value of the gold so required, at the rate of 3d.s.l.s.l.4. "That it is expedient to provide, by Jaw, that from the 1st February 1820, he Bank shall be liable to deliver, on demand, gold of standard fineness, having been assayed and stamped at his Majesty's mint, a quantity of not less than sixty ounces being required in exchange for such an amount of notes of the Bank as shall be equal to the value of the gold so required, at the rate of 4s.l.3. "That in order to give to the Bank a greater control over the issues of heir notes than they at present possess, provision ought to be made, for the gradual repayment to the Bank of the sum of ten millions; being part of the sum due to the Bank, on account of advances made by them for the public service, end on account of the purchase of exchequer bills under the authority of acts of the legislature.2. "That it is expedient that a definite period should be fixed for the termination of the restriction on cash payments; and that preparatory measures should be taken, with a view to facilitate and ensure, on the arrival of that period, the payment of the promissory notes of the Bank of England, in the legal coin of the realm.8031. "That it is expedient to continue
803 brought up the report of the committee of the whole House, upon the Resolutions respecting the Resumption of Cash Payments. The said Resolutions were as follow:
9. "That it is expedient to repeal the laws, prohibiting the melting and the exportation of the coin of the realm."8. "That from the 1st May 1823, the Bank shall pay its notes, on demand, in the legal coin of the realm.804d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.7. "That the Bank may, at any period between the 1st February 1820, and the 1st October 1820, undertake to deliver gold of standard fineness, assayed and stamped as before mentioned, at any rate between the sums of 4804d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.6. "That from the 1st May 1821, the Bank shall be liable to deliver, on demand, gold of standard fineness, assayed and stamped as before mentioned, a quantity of not less than sixty ounces being required in exchange for such an amount of notes as shall be equal in value to the gold so required, at the rate of 3d.s.l.d.s.l.5. "That from the 1st October, 1820, the Bank shall be liable to deliver, on demand, gold of standard fineness, assayed and stamped as before mentioned, a quantify of not less than sixty ounces being required in exchange for such an amount of notes as shall be equal to the value of the gold so required, at the rate of 3d.s.l.s.l.4. "That it is expedient to provide, by Jaw, that from the 1st February 1820, he Bank shall be liable to deliver, on demand, gold of standard fineness, having been assayed and stamped at his Majesty's mint, a quantity of not less than sixty ounces being required in exchange for such an amount of notes of the Bank as shall be equal to the value of the gold so required, at the rate of 4s.l.3. "That in order to give to the Bank a greater control over the issues of heir notes than they at present possess, provision ought to be made, for the gradual repayment to the Bank of the sum of ten millions; being part of the sum due to the Bank, on account of advances made by them for the public service, end on account of the purchase of exchequer bills under the authority of acts of the legislature.2. "That it is expedient that a definite period should be fixed for the termination of the restriction on cash payments; and that preparatory measures should be taken, with a view to facilitate and ensure, on the arrival of that period, the payment of the promissory notes of the Bank of England, in the legal coin of the realm.8031. "That it is expedient to continue
803
9. "That it is expedient to repeal the laws, prohibiting the melting and the exportation of the coin of the realm."8. "That from the 1st May 1823, the Bank shall pay its notes, on demand, in the legal coin of the realm.804d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.7. "That the Bank may, at any period between the 1st February 1820, and the 1st October 1820, undertake to deliver gold of standard fineness, assayed and stamped as before mentioned, at any rate between the sums of 4804d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.6. "That from the 1st May 1821, the Bank shall be liable to deliver, on demand, gold of standard fineness, assayed and stamped as before mentioned, a quantity of not less than sixty ounces being required in exchange for such an amount of notes as shall be equal in value to the gold so required, at the rate of 3d.s.l.d.s.l.5. "That from the 1st October, 1820, the Bank shall be liable to deliver, on demand, gold of standard fineness, assayed and stamped as before mentioned, a quantify of not less than sixty ounces being required in exchange for such an amount of notes as shall be equal to the value of the gold so required, at the rate of 3d.s.l.s.l.4. "That it is expedient to provide, by Jaw, that from the 1st February 1820, he Bank shall be liable to deliver, on demand, gold of standard fineness, having been assayed and stamped at his Majesty's mint, a quantity of not less than sixty ounces being required in exchange for such an amount of notes of the Bank as shall be equal to the value of the gold so required, at the rate of 4s.l.3. "That in order to give to the Bank a greater control over the issues of heir notes than they at present possess, provision ought to be made, for the gradual repayment to the Bank of the sum of ten millions; being part of the sum due to the Bank, on account of advances made by them for the public service, end on account of the purchase of exchequer bills under the authority of acts of the legislature.2. "That it is expedient that a definite period should be fixed for the termination of the restriction on cash payments; and that preparatory measures should be taken, with a view to facilitate and ensure, on the arrival of that period, the payment of the promissory notes of the Bank of England, in the legal coin of the realm.8031. "That it is expedient to continue
803Mr. Brogden
806 said, that on the return of peace the admiralty had lost no time in considering how they might obtain charts of the coasts of the empire, such as they never have yet had, namely, accurate ones. The west coast of Scotland and the coast of Ireland were perhaps those parts of Europe, of which the existing charts were most defective. In considering how they might remedy this disgrace, the admiralty had found that in taking a maritime survey of a coast so indented as that of Ireland, a country, of which no part was more than 50 miles from the sea, much of that expense would be incurred, which would suffice for an internal survey also. Knowing, too, that the ordnance survey of England was in great progress, and that it would probably be extended to Ireland, they thought it would be a profligate waste of the public money, if they did not endeavour to have both the maritime and the ordnance survey prosecuted at once. They had communicated on the subject with the member for Oxford (Mr. Peel), then secretary of the lord lieutenant, who had received it with that attention, which he paid to every subject connected with the welfare of Ireland. The persons and instruments employed in the ordnance survey were now in Scotland, whence, when they had completed the survey of that country, they would be
806Mr. Croker
l.l.d. wished the House, at this early stage of the measure, to be aware of its magnitude and difficulty. A survey of Ireland of 12 millions of acres, at 6l.l.d.Mr. Leslie Foster
816 rose to second the motion. He conceived that if no other principle operated upon the British government but gratitude to those people, that alone was a claim which should entitle them to protection. In looking to the present situation of the Grecian islands, he felt that the noble lord opposite had done a great deal for their regeneration, and as an individual he thanked him for it. Care had been taken to have proper persons sent out from this country, whose constant attention watched over their best interests. He admitted that great benefits had already accrued to the islands from this protection; but while he did this, he should maintain, that we were called upon by motives equally strong to extend our protection to Parga. She had trusted to us for protection. In her confidence she had opened her gates to our troops, to the exclusion of those of another nation by which they had been previously occupied. We yielded to the wishes of the people, in taking military, possession of their city; and the relationship which was established, was one of dependence on the one side, and not only implied but avowed protection on the other. That protection, he contended, we were bound in good faith not to withdraw. Parga was a small, but it was a free state. For three or four centuries it had cherished the spirit of liberty, while the countries around had been nearly enslaved by despotism. The liberty and independent spirit of ancient Greece were nourished here, he might almost say, upon this little spot; but if the House did now not interfere, its last ray would become extinct. In looking to the situation in which this city had been
816Mr. Maxwell
 accepted the consent of the noble lord to the motion of his hon. friend, as a pledge against the enactment of as perfidious a transfer as could ever disgrace any free country. There was, he contended, nothing in the treaty of 1815 which could oblige us to consummate so treacherous an act. How, he would ask, could we be bound by the convention of 1800? In what part of the law of nations was it discovered, that we had a right to insist on the fulfilment of a treaty against a people towards whom all its contracts had been broken? The Turks had forfeited all claim to benefit from any clause in that treaty: they had themselves violated and shamefully neglected the duties to which it had bound them. If this were so, how could we be bound by the treaty of 1815? He denied any such inference, and the cession of Parga, would be, he maintained, the most abominable that ever was made of or by a free people. There was no example among nations where faith was kept of giving up a free and Christian people to a Mahometan tyrant. If the treaty of 1815, was said to renew that of 1800, why not renew it all? Why should one half be kept in favour of a Mahometan tyrant, and the other thrown aside as advantageous to a Christian people? When the papers should come before the House, he would be prepared to show that it was the duty of the legislature to interfere to prevent so gross a violation of the privileges of a free state.Sir J. Mackintosh
819 was happy to hear that the noble lord had no objection to the motion of his hon. friend, as it was likely to lead to a more full discussion of this important question. He looked upon the surrender of Parga as an act as treacherous and perfidious as had ever disgraced modern diplomacy. He was not aware of all the circumstances of the case, and should therefore reserve his more detailed opinion till the papers were before the House. But he should say, that unless some new and extraordinary light were thrown upon the matter, he should doubt whether Parga ought to have been ceded at all. One thing he thought was clear— that we were not bound by the act of 1815, or that of 1800 between the Turks and Russians: or if it were conceived that this latter were binding, we ought to have it all or none. The beneficial part of it ought not to be taken from those to whom it applied, while that which operated against them was suffered to remain According to the papers to which his hon. friend had alluded, the Parguinotes themselves seemed aware that, under the treaty which would consign them to the power of the Turk, they could enjoy no
819Mr. Scarlett
 said, he had a petition to present from 500 inhabitants of the town of Chorley, in Lancashire, praying that the right of elective franchise, so grossly abused by the inhabitants of Penryn, might be transferred to them. He was of opinion, that their request was highly reasonable. Though the House had rejected his motion for transferring the franchise from Barnstaple to some of the unrepresented large towns, he should not relinquish that subject; nor till some such measure was taken to introduce a more equal representation of the people in that House, would he consent to the imposition of one shilling of additional taxes.Sir R. Wilson
l. said, that no tax was more unequally levied at present than the county rates in Ireland. It was of the utmost importance that of a tax of 900,000l.Sir J. Newport
831830 animadverted upon the reference of the noble lord to a former decision of the House with respect to the junior lords of the Admiralty, and expressed his satisfaction to think that it was competent to the House to revise that decision: for it was known that the House was rather surprised into that decision by the statement of an hon. officer (sir G. Cockburn), that the existence of such appointments was somewhat conducive to the public service. But as the House was now called upon to look at those, appointments upon a reconsidered view of retrenchment, with a large loan, and new and extraordinary taxes in contemplation, something more than such a statement was necessary to reconcile the House and the country to the toleration of such offices. It was manifest, that the new principles of finance which had been recently and wisely determined upon in consequence of the report of the Bank committee, would create a great alteration in the financial system of the country; that this alteration would be productive of considerable uncertainty and risk; that their adoption would, in fact, operate as a new tax upon the public, and be likely to lead to considerable difficulty and distress. The measure alluded to was, in his judgment, evidently wise and necessary, although sonic public embar-
831830The Hon. F. Douglas
l. said, that he had five distinct grants to propose to the consideration of the committee. The first was, "That a sum not exceeding 8,599,600l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
842 observed, that the subjects to which the hon. gentleman had just drawn his attention and that of the committee, were of considerable importance. And first with respect to the sinking fund, the hon. gentleman had DO right to assume that the advantages which would have been gained, by the adoption, with reference to the four last loans of his recommendation, would have been such as he described; because he had no right to assume, that if the sinking fund had been taken in aid of the first of those loans, the terms on which the other loans would have been raised, would have been so advantageous to the public as they had been. He said
842The Chancellor of the Exchequer
843 again denied that he had made any communication of the nature alluded to, except in the conversations which he had already mentioned. They were only such communications as he should be very happy
843The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed his perfect readiness to state in the House whatever he might have stated elsewhere on the subject; and which had been so stated by him only in the course of the conversations which he had held for the purpose of ascertaining, whether it would be more expedient for the public service to raise a large loan, sufficient for the present and the next year, or only a smaller one to cover the necessities of the present year; as also, whether it would be expedient to take the sinking fund, or any part of it, for the same service.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied that he had already said he had made no stipulation with respect to the sinking; fund, which was of a binding or conclusive nature.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.847846 observed, that in bringing in a bill to regulate the Fees in the Court of Chancery in Ireland, he had to claim the indulgence of the House, as this was a matter of great importance to the sister country. Some years since commissioners were appointed to inquire into the fees paid in the courts of chancery and exchequer in Ireland; those fees had long been a matter of complaint, and were carried so far as, in many instances, to impede the ends of justice. On inquiry, it was found that a scale of fees had existed in 1734, and had been acted upon up to 1767. Since that period the expenses had greatly increased, in some instances so much as 50 per cent. The right hon. member proceeded to state instances of the abuses found to exist. One was, that of charging the stamp duty on a sheet containing 72 words, instead of 90 as was formerly done. The next was fictitious attendances. A master in chancery had the power of
l.l.847846Mr. C. Grant
, of Galway, seconded the motion, though he would have preferred adopting the plan recommended by the commissioners.Mr. Martin
 disapproved of the principle adopted with regard to compensation.The Earl of Carhampton
 repeated, that he had merely made inquiries to ascertain what plan promised to be the most efficient.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, in despite of the gloomy anticipations of the hon. gentleman, he hoped the House would not postpone the bill. Were they to understand, that the lord chancellor and master of the rolls in Ireland wished the bill to be postponed? This bill came before the House with their recommendation, and it was known that they were anxious the bill should now be proceeded in.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
851, of Galway, said, that in rising to bring forward a substantive charge against a judge, he was well aware of the difficult task he had undertaken. He was sensible, that the House should visit in the severest manner any man who should be daring or wicked enough to bring forward any unfounded charge or calumny against a judge. From the first moment he had heard that all the allegations which he had brought before the House had been flatly traversed by the learned judge whom they regarded, he had treated that contradiction with all the deference due to assertions coming from such a quarter. But he was now determined to prove his own truth and integrity in making those charges; all of which he had reduced to a written one. What would be said of a naval officer who should bring forward an unfounded accusation against a military one; or of a military officer who should' act so in regard to his superior? Why, he believed that the court-martial, whether naval or military, would dismiss the person making such false charge. What would be the House's opinion of him, himself, for he would not shrink from saying so, should he adduce false charges and groundless calumnies against the learned judge? They ought to expel him from their assembly; but what would they say when he told them that he had in the gallery seven or eight witnesses, who were ready not merely to substantiate his averments, but to prove them to be altogether true? The first charge which he had to make against the learned judge was, that he had thought proper to send an armed body of men into the court, by whom all were cleared out of it, with the exception of one hon. gentleman (Mr. V. Blake) who, by some stratagem or other, had the good fortune to hide himself under one of the benches. Not contented with this most unusual and unjustifiable proceeding, he placed sentinels at all the avenues to prevent access to the court. Was this, he asked, conduct to be tolerated in a judge whose bounden duty it was to administer justice with impartiality? But this was not all. A jury which was, at the time when his (Mr. Martin's) trial came on, deliberating upon its verdict in a previous case, was not allowed to deliver that verdict until his cause was decided. The jury was not allowed admittance into the court; and in answer to the second application made
851 Mr. Martin
853852 objected to the motion, principally on the ground that the House had no right to interfere in a question of pure practice in the court in which Baron M'Lellan presided. In considering this question, he was actuated by no feelings but those which belonged to the justness of the case; but, be felt quite
853852Lord Castlereagh
 said, it was utterly impossible for the noble lord, on any occasion, to make a request to him in vain; and since, in the opinion of the noble lord, and he trusted of the House, there was nothing that tended to compromise his veracity, he had no objection to acquiesce in the noble lord's suggestion. He was therefore quite satisfied to let the article lie on the table, and not appoint any specific day for taking it into consideration.Mr. Martin
 said, if the hon. member thought of leaving the article on the table, it must, of course, be entered on the Journals, and to prevent that, the House must proceed to some determination. If the hon. member would consent to withdraw the article, it would relieve the House from the necessity of any further proceedings.Lord Castlereagh
 said, be had no objection to the removal of the article, but he could not be the person to move the withdrawing of his own motion.Mr. Martin
854 censured the introduction of such a charge against the learned judge, after a lapse of five years, as a most unkind thing. "The only crime imputed to the learned judge was, that he
854Sir J. Stewart
 said, he had already stated, that he was willing to adopt any course that the noble lord might point out. Rut when it was expected that he should withdraw a charge which he himself had made, he found that he was incompetent to do it.Mr. Martin
l.d.s.l.l.856l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.855 declared, he was sorry to trespass at that late hour on the patience of the House, but the present subject; being one to which he had devoted much time and attention, he felt it his duty to submit a few observations respecting it. In the principles upon which the bill now before the House was framed, he entirely concurred, but there there some
l.d.s.l.l.856l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.855Mr. Waithman
l.l.l.l.857, having been a member of the committee, although he had not been present when the report was drawn up, hoped that the House would indulge him for a few minutes. He certainly had not been prepared for the turn which the debate had taken, as he did not expect that the worthy alderman would have expressed his sentiments on the propriety of the present bill, by launching into violent abuse of the former act. He could not help remarking, that a spirit of crimination seemed to have actuated the whole of the worthy alderman's conduct in the discussion of the subject. The worthy alderman had complained that the petitioners against the bill had been represented as unfeeling and heard-hearted; but he was not aware that any person had quarrelled with the petitioners on account of their opinions. He had certainly differed in opinion from those who petitioned against the principle of the act, but he had not quarrelled with them on that account, nor had he accused them of being unfeeling. He was glad to say, however, that many of those who had formerly been hostile to the measure were now satisfied with it, and had declared that if such provisions were introduced, into the bill as had been introduced, that was all they wanted. As to the commissioners taking fees, he certainly did not approve of the practice; but at the
l.l.l.l.857Mr. Calcraft
 supported the bill. It was true, as had been stated by the hon. gentleman who spoke last, that most of the persons who took the benefit of the Insolvent act were of the poorest class; and even if they were not, he believed there was little chance of the creditor being benefited by a commission of bankruptcy. He believed that if the present measure were carried into effect, it would be productive of the greatest benefit.Mr. John Smith
d.s.l.d.s.l.s.l. said, that when the bill was in the committee, he meant to move, that, instead of the enactment, that the Bank should pay their notes, on the 1st of February, 1820, in gold, at 4d.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.Mr. Ellice
858 said, there was one point in the speech delivered by the noble lord on a former occasion, which he wished to understand perfectly. The noble lord
858Mr. Grenfell
 thought it was quite impossible for any person, who attended to what he had said, to misunderstand him. He had stated particularly, that the committee had recommended the 1st of February rather than the 1st of March, or the 1st of April, or the 1st of May, because no further legislative enactment was contemplated. The only objection which he thought could be raised against the plan recommended by the committee, had no reference to the present state of the exchange or other matters connected with it, but pointed to so extreme a case, as could only be the offspring of the utmost necessity, and, therefore, ought not to be admitted as an argument in opposition to the new plan. The 1st of February was mentioned for the purpose of destroying all delusion on the subject; for parliament met so late in January, that, unless a new measure were formed in twenty four-hours, no alteration in the then existing enactment could take place.Lord Castlereagh
 thanked the noble lord for having re-stated what he had before said. It was a matter of considerable importance.Mr. Grenfell
 observed, that he was acquainted with the learned judge, and a more upright man never sat on the bench. But he left his character to the gentlemen of the Irish bar, to those who best knew the dignity and humanity with which he had always conducted himself in his exalted situation. He therefore cheerfully supported the motion for rejecting the charge.Mr. Crawford
 thought, as the charge was of so very serious a nature, and affected the credit and character of a learned judge, it ought not, having been formally laid on the table, to be withdrawn, until the friends 'of the learned judge had an opportunity of delivering their sentiments, If his suggestion were favourably received by the House, he was ready to state What had come to his knowledge on thesubject—[Cries of "Go on, go on"]Mr. Brownlow
 had heard a statement which set forth, whether correctly or not he could not say, all the particulars of the intended loan, the sum to be borrowed, and the days on which the several payments were to be made. These he understood had been made known to others by the chancellor of the exchequer, but not to him or to any one with whom he was connected. The usual course had been for the chancellor of the exchequer to give notice to the parties likely to subscribe to the loan, that on such a day he would expect them, and then when they attended him, to unfold his plan to them. To communicate his intentions to one party alone, was to give that party a great and manifest advantage over all the others. Whether such a communication had been made he did not know; but the rumour was so general, that he could not doubt the fact of some communication from the right hon. gentleman having been made.Mr. Ricardo
 said, he had not inquired whether the navy board, as at present constituted, was useful to the public service, but whether the gallant admiral could state that the two lay lords were absolutely necessary. To this inquiry the gallant admiral had in fact made no reply.Mr. F. Douglas
 observed, that in his opinion, if the right hon. gentleman had declared to the individuals in question, his intention to abstain from touching the sinking fund, the House ought to interfere to prevent the conclusion of a negotiation on such an understanding.Mr. Barnett
s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.826825 expressed his surprise at the course pursued by the hon. baronet, particularly in referring to, and wholly relying upon, the statements of the finance committee. Was it, from the observation. of the hon. baronet, to be taken for granted that he adopted the recommendation of the finance committee? That committee: had recommended the suppression of the Naval Asylum; and was it to be understood,; that the; hon. baronet and his colleagues meant to act upon that suggestion? He was sorry the hon. baronet, had. declined to favour the House with any explanation on this, as well as on every other point of: detail; for he was one of those who thoughts so highly of the utility and character of the Naval Asylum, that he could not, without pain and astonishment, contemplate the idea of suppressing such a meritorious institution. While, indeed, the Military Asylum was so liberally provided for, without any objection or comment on the part of the finance committee, the recommendation of that committee, to suppress the Naval Asylum, must surprise the judgment and revolt the feeling; of every considerate man in the country. He trusted, therefore, that ministers would not attempt to carry that recommendation into effect, notwithstanding their extreme dispositions to economy, with regard to every thing that related to the navy. This was no doubt a branch of the public service in which ministers evinced a readiness to practise the most niggardly economy—to pare down and; reduce in every direction; But that was a description of economy or parsimony of which he could by no means approve; on the contrary, he would rather be an advocate for the vote of a greater number of men for the service of the navy than was at present proposed. According to this proposition, only 20,000 men, it seemed, were to be voted altogether; that is, 14,000 seamen, and 6,000 marines; and considering the number voted in former years of peace, he was of opinion that this number was much too small; for it was his desire to maintain the navy in; its proper rank and elevation, and therefore he witnessed with great regret the disposition manifested of late years to destroy the
s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.826825Mr. Calcraft
l.l.l.l. observed, that the recommendation of the finance report was, that no new works should be commenced, without the estimates being first produced. To that recommendation the Admiralty had strictly attended. The works alluded to, had been some time in progress, and it was impossible to state what the precise expense would be. If the hon. member looked at the estimates of preceding years, he would see that the grants now proposed were considerably lower in amount. That was, in his judgment, the true progress of economy, to diminish the scale of expense gradually, so as not to effect the public security, but to have it in their power to be prepared for any exertion which a public exigence might require. With respect to the grant to the board of longitude, that was at present 4,000l.l.l.l.Mr. Croker
l.l. trusted he could give a satisfactory explanation to the inquiries of the hon. baronet. As to the works at Deptford, the excess of expense had arisen from the foundation of the wharf-wall of the victualling department having been discovered to be in a considerably worse state than was at first imagined. It was some hundreds of years old, and on closer examination, patching up was deemed insufficient, as the piles were quite rotten, and it was obliged to be rebuilt. The augmentation of the expense of the estimate at Woolwich had been occasioned by the discovery of Mr. Rennie, that, by a change of the line of the wharf-wall, the enormous expense (sometimes 20,000l.l.Mr. Croker
l.l.l.d.s.d.s. said, that the hon. baronet's appeal was part mixed up in his compassion for the situation of some of these individuals, and part in his idea of the justice of their claims. With respect to the compassionate part of the appeal, he could assure the hon. baronet, that he lamented as much as any man that he could not, with a due sense of economy, give the sought-for relief. The justice of the claim he was not so easily prepared to admit. The state of the case was this —according to the old plan, there were exactly as many pursers as there were ships in commission; and when a ship was lost or broken up, no new purser was appointed until another ship was built or put in commission. This was considered very hard upon the pursers thrown out of employment in this manner, and a custom grew up of bearing pursers on what was called the check of the yard, with an allowance of 1l.l.l.d.s.d.s.Mr. Croker
849, as one of the Irish commissioners, entered into a statement of several of the reforms recommended by
849Mr. Leslie Foster
l.839l. wished to ask the hon. gentleman, why the manufacture of gunpowder was so extensively continued, as it was an article that, in the event of its being required by war, could be made with great speed? One of the items under that head was 10,500l.839l.Mr. Hume
l. again adverted to the manufacture of gunpowder, and said, that unless it was made of a better quality in the royal mills than in mills belonging to private individuals, the reason assigned by the hon. gentleman for the continuance of that expense to the public was nugatory; and that at any rate the charge of 7,000l.Mr. Hume
l.834l.l.l.l. said, that taking it for granted, on the word of the hon. baronet, that the report of the finance committee was to be considered his speech on the grant before the House, he should beg to know, whether it was intended to adopt the suggestion of the committee respecting the Naval Asylum. He thought the House should not vote this grant till estimates of all the naval works had been produced. The committee had voted 15,000l.834l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
841l. said, he was not desirous at the present moment of reviving the discussion on the sinking fund, but as government were now on the eve of raising a large sum of money by loan, he appealed to the right hon. gentleman, he implored the House to consider the contents of the paper which, on his motion, had been laid on the table of the House, and which exhibited at one view what would have been the practical effects of the adoption, with reference to the last four loans, of the recommendation which he had so frequently pressed on government. By that paper, it appeared, that if the system he had recommended had been acted upon on the occasion of the last four loans, viz.—the loan for 27 millions in June 1813; the loan for 22 millions in November 1813; the loan for 24 millions in the beginning of 1814; and the loan for 36 millions in 1815, the practical effect would have been the saving to the commissioners for the reduction of the national debt, and consequently to the country of no less a sum than six millions, producing annually 268,000841l.Mr. Grenfell
§in terrorem; expressed his regret to find, that the right hon. gentleman had really done that which he before believed was attributed to him only by calumny. The right hon. gentleman had allowed, that he had made a communication of his financial plan. But were loan-contractors the persons whom the right hon. gentleman ought to consult on such subjects? He was now compelled to believe the rumour that the right hon. gentleman had communicated to certain persons, his intention of raising a loan of 30 millions: and from what the right hon. gentleman had said, or rather from what the right hon. gentleman had abstained from saying, he believed another rumour, namely, that the right hon. gentleman had declared to the same persons, that he did not mean to apply any part of the sinking fund to the service of the current year. The right hon. gentleman had merely said, that the power of so applying the sinking fund was one of the means which the Treasury possessed of preventing any combination or attempt at combination on the part of the monied interest, and to the disadvantage of the public. But what he (Mr. Grenfell) wanted was, not that it should be so held §in terrorem;Mr. Grenfell
l.l.l.l.845l.una voce observed, that if the right hon. gentleman had put his questions only to obtain information, he would not have been culpable; but if he had communicated his own opinion to the loan contractors, he had not discharged his duty. He ridiculed the idea of asking those persons whether it would be expedient to contract for a large or a small loan. Experience had sufficiently shown, that in such cases they had always declared l.l.l.l.845l.una voceMr. Grenfell
 replied, that there was great difficulty in making up and procuring the accounts adverted to by the hon. gentleman, in consequence of the officers on whom that devolved being dispersed in all parts of the world. Every diligence was used by the ordnance department to procure them as speedily as possible; and in some instances, they have been under the necessity of resorting to prosecutions for-that purpose.Mr. Ward
l. observed, that with respect to the manufacture of gunpowder, it must be evident that a great and an economical alteration must have taken place, when the manufacture for the use of government was reduced from 30,000 barrels annually to 1,000. It was, however, essential to preserve the existence of a manufactory which had, beyond all doubt, carried the article it produced to such a degree of perfection, as to exceed, in point of excellence, that made in any other part of the world. Besides, the continuance of the manufacture in the reduced rate at which the work was going on, kept in employment those old servants who must otherwise be provided for by pensions. With regard to the hon. gentleman's wish to know whether or not it was intended to fill up the vacancies in the staff from the half-pay, he had only to reply, that there was no artillery staff. As to the observation respecting the newly acquired colonies, the recommendation in the report of the finance committee, to which the hon. gentleman alluded, was a consideration of great national policy, on which his majesty's government had not yet determined; until which determination, it was of course his duty to propose to parliament that they should be protected in the usual way.l.Mr. R. Ward
d.s.l.l.d.s.l.l.838 then, in pursuance of his notice, brought on the Ordnance Estimates. He commenced by giving a brief statement
d.s.l.l.d.s.l.l.838Mr. Robert Ward
829 spoke against the amendment. He differed from the hon. mover of it, with respect to the propriety of maintaining the two lay lords of the Admiralty; upon which question, indeed, the House, after ample discussion, had already decided. It was very true, that it was
829Lord Compton
 said, the proper course was, to name some day when this charge should be taken into consideration: The hon. mover, in obedience to the pleasure of the House, had withdrawn his substantive motion. The charge was now laid on the table of the House, and it must be got rid of somehow or other. It might either be expunged from the Journals, or rejected. If it were otherwise dealt with, it must necessarily appear on the Journals.The Speaker
 observed, that he understood from the hon. member he would at least withdraw his motion for the House resolving itself into a committee on this day fortnight, to take the article of charge into consideration.The Speaker
832 said, that as he had been called on in so personal a manner
832Sir G. Cockburn
 lamented that he could not concur in any recommendation which would tend to augment the half pay list; nor could he consent to any addition whatever to the list, except in cases of vacancies.Sir G. Cockburn
l., next moved, "That a sum, not exceeding 1,631,628l.,Sir G. Warrender
l.827 adverting to the complaint of the hon. gentleman as to his abstinence from details which were already before the House in the report of the finance committee, observed, that the hon. gentleman was in error, if he supposed that there was any intention whatever to
l.827Sir G. Warrender
d.s.l.824 rose to move the Navy Estimates. Upon this subject the hon. baronet said he should think it unnecessary, if not presumptuous on his part, to make any speech, or to enter into any detail, as the question had already been so amply discussed, while all the details connected with it were so perspicuously stated, in the report of the finance committee; therefore, he felt that it rather became him to wait for. any observations which might be made on the other side of the House, and to which he would endeavour to submit a satisfactory reply. The hon. baronet, after stating, that at no former period was our navy in a condition of
d.s.l.824Sir G. Warrender
l.d.s.l.l.l.l.828 agreed with the hon. baronet, that the lords of the admiralty were responsible for the condition of the navy, and he was truly glad to learn, that it was not intended to act upon the recommendation of the finance committee by putting down the Naval Asylum, as he firmly believed that there was no establishment in the country, which the people, whatever might be the slate of their circumstances, would be more
l.d.s.l.l.l.l.828Sir M. W. Ridley
l.l.l.l.l.836l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l. took that opportunity to put some questions respecting the works going on in some of the public docks and yards. He would begin with the works at the Deptford yard, the grant for which, in 1818, was 34,468l.l.l.l.l.836l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.Sir M. W. Ridley
l.837 begged to take that opportunity of again calling the attention of government to the state of the unemployed pursers of the navy, and their present situation, as contrasted with their previous rank and emoluments. Of clerks who had passed seven years service, and also passed their examination as acting pursers, there were, he believed, about 25 or 26 excluded from their allowance by the regulation of the order in council of 1814; and when it was considered that
l.837Sir M. W. Ridley
l.l.l.l.848 felt happy in being able to say that the commission appointed to inquire into courts of justice, had been productive of the most beneficial effects. The labours of the Irish commissioners had indeed been productive of the most valuable results to the public. They had had to contend with every thing which official prejudice could suggest to
l.l.l.l.848Sir J. Newport
 thought the remedy proposed worse than the disease. Vested rights were those of all others which that House protected. He was fearful that sufficient time would not be afforded for the consideration of the measure in question; and as to the report alluded to, what it principally recommended was, the assimilation of the proceedings in the Irish court of Chancery to those of the English Chancery court.Mr. Valentine Blake
 censured the course which had been adopted by the right hon. gentleman, and which would deprive the public of the benefit to be derived from a competition for the loan. The right hon. gentleman had admitted, that he had made a communication to some persons respecting his intentions; for as to the assertion of the right hon. gentleman, that he had merely asked them questions with regard to the expediency of various financial plans, it was not difficult to conceive, that a chancellor of the exchequer might ask such questions in a way which would be very clearly indicative of his own purposes.Lord Milton
860, on presenting a petition to the same effect, from the merchants, manufacturers, and ship-owners of London, expressed the most decisive objection to the measure referred to by the petitioners. The hon. member read an abstract from the petition, which forcibly stated the reasons upon which, for the sake of our commerce, manufactures, and shipping interest, the proposed bill should not be allowed to pass into a law. This petition was, he said, subscribed by 1,700 of the most respectable individuals connected with the trade of London. The opinions of such men were entitled to, and would, he hoped, experience the particular attention of the House. But as to the professed object of the bill, it seemed surprising that in the nineteenth century, it should be deemed necessary to legislate for the purpose of explaining the principles of neutrality. The Spanish government was known to have made use of the shipping of England for the purpose of conveying her troops, ammunition, &c. to South America, and of bringing home to her ports the wealth of those territories. That government had now a supply of British transports to forward more troops to that quarter; and after it had received such signal accommodation, not only in shipping, but in men, and all the sinews of war from this country, he could not see upon what ground of fairness or impartiality a similar accommodation or advantage was to be refused to the South American patriots. Such a refusal could not, in his judgment, be maintained, without a violation of all the principles of just neutrality. But, looking at the proposed measure in a mercantile view, it could not be too decisively deprecated; for the patriots had heretofore notoriously afforded every facility to our trade, while they were among our best purchasers; but if the measure referred to were enacted into a law, the consequence must be to throw the trade of the patriots into the hands of the United States, who would be ready, for their own benefit, to cultivate the connexion by all the means in their power. Under these considerations, with so many petitions from the manufacturing towns upon this subject, with such universal complaints of the stagnation of trade, and of the distress of the people, it behoved both the parliament and the government to pause, before it gave its sanction to any
860Mr. Wilson
 said, it could not be his object to fetter the judgment of the House. The contractors for the loan, in making their bargain, well knew that all must depend on the decision the House might think it right to come to on the Resolutions which he had brought forward.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that no provision was made for the present year. He did not know the state of the account between the government and the East India Company, but he believed no demand was made.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 stated, that the petition was referred to the noble lord at the head of the home department, in order that he might take the pleasure of the Prince Regent upon it. The hon. member must be aware of the difficulties inseparable from such a proposition; but no time would be lost in attending to the application.Lord Castlereagh
 said, the hon. gentleman must see that it would be attended with great inconvenience, if ministers were called on to answer, in the progress of their duty, whether they had, or had not sent out certain instructions. An answer to such a question necessarily involved some notice of the nature of the instructions themselves, and was, in fact, such an interference with the official duties of ministers, as, he conceived, with all deference to the hon. gentleman, could not be considered fair and proper.Lord Castlereagh
 begged of the hon. gentleman not to be too hasty in drawing conclusions. His majesty's government would pursue that course which appeared to them to be correct.Lord Castlereagh
876875874873 said, that the first part of the gallant general's argument went to establish the right of the subjects of one state to enlist in the service of another state, and even if that state should be at war with their state. [General cries of No, no.] The instances to which the gallant general had referred went to establish that principle. [Sir R. Wilson rose to explain; but the cries of "No. no, it is unnecessary," were so general, that he immediately sat down.] He was not disposed to quarrel with the mercy and humanity extended to the Irish brigade who
876875874873The Attorney General
887ne exeat regno886885 observed, that if the description which the hon. and learned gentleman who had just set down had given of the operation of the bill before the House, namely, that it would prevent any enlisting on one side of the question, without touching the other, had been applied to the existing law, he would have acknowledged its accuracy. According to the present law, if an agent of the king of Spain were to attempt to recruit a single man for the cause of his royal master, he would subject himself to indictment, and to the possible forfeiture of life; while an agent of the Spanish colonies might recruit (as indeed had been done), embark, and carry out to South America, as many men as he could prevail upon to go, with
887ne exeat regno886885Mr. Wynn
903902‡bellum ad internecionem.901bonâ fide900 was anxious to impress upon the House this great and important fact—that the present measure, however supported by the learning and logic of Doctors Commons, whatever abstract reasoning might be employed by gentlemen on the other side in support of it, did mainly and effectually go to the destruction of the cause of the independent patriots of South America. Much had been said also by the gentlemen on the opposite benches, respecting the right of this government to interfere. The right could not for a moment be contradicted; but he entertained considerable doubt, whether the House would have the heart to pass such a bill as was now attempted to be thrust upon the nation. Although the arguments of his hon. friends, who had spoken that night against the measure, had not been overcome, yet they had, in some degree, been distorted and disfigured by what had been said by the other side; and he thought he could not do better than bring back to the recollection of the
903902‡bellum ad internecionem.901bonâ fide900Mr. Macdonald
907906905904 said, that the bill as it was now proposed, was open to no objections, on account of any retrospective operation; it was purely a prospective measure. In looking at the principles in which his hon. and learned friend had proposed this bill, it would be an error to suppose that it had been directed against individuals who had chosen to separate themselves from their native country. The character of the offence, without which, he might venture to assert, parliament would not have interfered, was that of a combination to make this country the spot where levies were to be raised and organized, to take part in the unfortunate quarrel between Spain and her provinces. Not regiments merely, but what might almost be called armies, had not only been raised, but had received all their military organization in this country, and sailed perfectly prepared to proceed to warfare on their landing. The gallant mover of the amendment had said, that in the United States, two frigates had been fitted out. But he had yet to learn, that
907906905904Lord Castlereagh
, in explanation, observed, that the statement of the noble lord with reference to the transaction at Trinidad, proved only that great numbers were admitted into that colony, but did not go to contradict the particular fact to which he alluded, of certain persons having been refused.Mr. Marryat
898897partiality896895894893892891 said:—Sir; the hon. member who spoke last but one, observed, that we should best show our neutrality by passing the bill now under discussion; but I conceive, on the contrary, that we shall best show our neutrality by doing nothing, and that the moment we begin to legislate, we take a part. The hon. and learned gentleman who introduced the bill admits, that the common law, as it now stands, is inefficient for the purpose he has in view; and before we depart from that strict neutrality which we have pledged ourselves to observe, in the present contest between Spain and her colonies, by altering our laws in order to give an advantage to one party over the other, we surely ought most seriously to consider the justice of the cause in which we are about to engage. The government exercised by Spain in her South American dominions is, perhaps, the most despotic of which history can furnish an example. It has happened to me to be an eye-witness of it in the early part of my life; and my remarks upon it are therefore founded on actual observation and personal knowledge. Spain, not satisfied with that mo-
898897partiality896895894893892891Mr. Marryat
, of Galway, rose, amidst loud cries of question! He expressed a wish that the hon. member who was particularly loud in his call, would identify himself to his view.Mr. Martin
 begged pardon if he was wrong, but assured the House, that his intention was merely to call upon the hon. member to show himself, as he was satisfied that in doing so, the Speaker would be prepared to enforce order by his authority. He then proceeded to remark, that the present bill went only to enforce a principle of law which was already recognized. If government had forborne any longer, he was persuaded the country would have rung with charges of violated neutrality. If Mr. Fox were now alive, he was certain his vote would be in favour of ministers on the present occasion.Mr. Martin
910 said, that, connected with the present subject, he had a petition to present from the merchants and inhabitants of the town of Liverpool, praying that the bill should not be permitted to pass. The ground on which the petitioners rested their application was, that the beneficial trade at present carried on with South America was likely to suffer from such an enactment; but, in the present case, as in others of equal importance, he took the liberty of differing from his worthy constituents, and he did not hesi-
910Mr. Canning
890889888 said, he should not have offered himself to the attention of the House were it not for the extraordi-
890889888Mr. F. Douglas
 did not mean to ask any question, the answer to which could involve the secrets of government. But, as he thought, from what had fallen on a former night from the noble lord, that government contemplated the step which he had alluded to, he did not conceive that there was any impropriety in the question.Mr. F. Douglas
 inquired of the noble lord, whether his majesty's government had adopted any proceeding to prevent the surrender of Parga to the Ottoman Porte?Mr. F. Douglas
 said, that he felt it his duty, after the evidence which he had read, and the document now produced under the declaration of the hon. member, that it was the hand-writing of captain Hanchett, to declare his concurrence in the observations of the hon. secretary, and his full conviction that the government had no choice but to dismiss an officer so un-worthy to be employed in their service. As far, therefore, as captain Hanchett was concerned, he had nothing to say. In respect to capt. Knight, lieut. Neame, and lieut. Dombrain, he must also add, that their explanations were satisfactory. The remaining points which concerned the hon. secretary's alleged use of his patronage, for the purpose of furthering his local interests at Canterbury, required more explanation than had been given, and he should wish for information upon one or two points.Mr. Bennet
l.861 rose, he said, for the purpose of assuring the House that he had given the utmost attention, to the papers, and he was desirous of knowing whether
l.861Mr. Bennet
908 said, he remembered that,
908Mr. Goulburn
, seeing the noble lord in his place, was desirous to know whether, in consequence of the petition he had presented from the distressed weavers of Carlisle, any steps had been taken by his Majesty's government to afford those persons the relief they sought? The conduct of those unhappy individuals was most orderly under their distresses. If it was the intention of government to facilitate their emigration to Canada, that was the proper time, as the ships of the season were preparing to go out in ballast, in order to bring home their cargoes of timber.Mr. Curwen
866 wished to know, whether in the provision for the year, there was any arrangement made to pay the debt due to
866Mr. Hume
 understood that to-morrow the chancellor of the exchequer was to meet the gentlemen with whom he proposed to contract for the loan. Now, as the resolutions before the House must be connected with the consideration of the loan, he would take it for granted that the right hon. gentleman, at his interview with the contractors, would not commit himself in any way with respect to the sinking fund, so as to anticipate the decision of that House on Monday. He hoped he would be careful to leave it open to the House to provide that the loan to be raised in this or in any other year, should be raised in that way which to them might appear most for the benefit of the country. He was anxious that before Monday nothing should pass between the chancellor of the exchequer and the loan contractors that should fetter that House in any respect, but especially with respect to the application of the sinking fund in diminution of the loan.Mr. Grenfell
 said, he had no difficulty in giving a complete answer upon this point; at least he was sure it would be an answer to the House of Commons, although it might not be quite so satisfactory to his worthy friends at Canterbury. Upon a comparison of the number of persons connected with Canterbury, and recommended by Mr. L. for places in the preventive service, with those which Mr. Lushington had recommended because they were friends of captain Hanchett, and as such proposed by him to his noble friend, he found that he had recommended two of captain Hanchett's, for one Canterbury person. He therefore begged to assure the House, the hon. member, and his worthy friends at Canterbury, that he would take care not to be so duped again. This, however, would be satisfactory evidence to the House, that he had shown no grasping disposition for power or patronage, and that he had nothing for which he desired to be excused, but his lenity and kindness to this unworthy officer.Mr. Lushington
8638622¼ over."18262£.
2¼ over."18262£.9¼1237Deduct interest
9¼1237Deduct interest00500Annual allowance £.
00500Annual allowance £.
2¼ over."18262£.
2¼ over."18262£.9¼1237Deduct interest
9¼1237Deduct interest00500Annual allowance £.
00500Annual allowance £.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.l.s.l.l."Aged 38.—100d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.l.s.l.l.l. said, he had no difficulty in complying with the hon. member's wishes for any paper he might desire to have; all possible alacrity should be used in furnishing them. He wished first to remind the hon. member of his declaration on a former night, that captain Hanchett had explicitly authorised him to "declare, upon his word of honour, as an officer and a gentleman, that there was not one word of truth in the story about 6,0008638622¼ over."18262£.
2¼ over."18262£.9¼1237Deduct interest
9¼1237Deduct interest00500Annual allowance £.
00500Annual allowance £.
2¼ over."18262£.
2¼ over."18262£.9¼1237Deduct interest
9¼1237Deduct interest00500Annual allowance £.
00500Annual allowance £.d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.l.s.l.l."Aged 38.—100d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.l.s.l.l.l.Mr. Lushington
 rose to present a petition from three gallant officers of the navy, complaining of the foul aspersions cast upon their characters in the petition presented some days ago from captain Hanchett. These officers, captain Knight, lieut. Neame, and lieut. Dombrain, felt they had reason to complain that the House should be made the channel of the most scandalous calumny, without any opportunity having been afforded to them for their vindication, and which finding its way into the papers, left an impression on the public mind, which the most absolute denial and complete refutation might not be able afterwards wholly to remove. Mr. Lushington felt also that he had reason to complain of this as matter affecting the privileges of the House. When he read in the papers the morning after the discussion relative to captain Hanchett, the report of what had passed, he found much that had been said omitted, and much that he had stated grossly misrepresented. In "The Times" newspaper particularly, these errors prevailed, and there was even a comment in that paper, so gross and false, that he should have felt justified in moving that the editor should be brought to the bar, for the insertion of a paragraph, which he believed had proceeded from the most corrupt and polluted source. Whenever there was a discussion affecting the characters of persons, either in or out of that House, it was the special duty of those by whose means the public was daily gratified with an account of what passed in the House, to take care that they adhered as strictly as possible to the truth. He hoped this would be a sufficient warning to the reporters in future to be more accurate; and he would now, with the leave of the House, read the petition. Mr. Lushington then read the petition, which was: in substance what he had stated. He then desired to ask the hon. member (Mr. Bennet) now that he had had sufficient time to read all the papers, and make himself better master of the facts of the case, what he meant to do?Mr. Lushington
884animus883882881ne exeat regno880ne exeat regnoprimâ facie879878877 expressed his astonishment at some of the arguments that had been used by the hon. and learned gentleman, and more particularly those of which the hon. and learned gentleman had availed
884animus883882881ne exeat regno880ne exeat regnoprimâ facie879878877Mr. Denman
859, on presenting a petition from the Merchants and Ship-owners of Bermondsey and Rotherhithe, against the Foreign Enlistment bill, took occasion to animadvert in strong, terms upon the character and tendency of that measure, not only from its probable operation against the commercial interest of this country, but from its direct design to impede the efforts of the gallant inhabitants of South America
859Mr. Denison
864§ said, he held in his hand a number of petitions, the subject of which,
864§Mr. W. Smith
 observed, that the hon. member must be aware that the manner in which he had thought proper to notice the interruption was not consistent with the usual practice of the House on such occasions.The Speaker
899 said, that it was the duty of the House, upon the present occasion, to act without reference to the merits of either party concerned, but upon the ground of a strict neutrality. On that principle he conceived the present measure to be necessary. After the struggle in which this country had been so long engaged, and now that peace was restored, they should show to the world, that they respected the law of nations, and, in that, the rights of a strict neutrality. In a paper lately circulated, and which he believed was put into the hands of most of the members of that House, allusion was made to the practice in the time of James 1st, with respect to Spain. The situation of the two countries was then different to what it was now. At present they were at peace with Spain, but at the period alluded to were in strict alliance with the United Provinces, and had cautionary towns there, which it was their interest to defend. In all the treaties with Spain since 1630, the same principle as that upon which this bill proceeded was recognised. The treaty of 1630 was renewed in 1667, and lately again in 1814. The only object of the present measure was, to remove all doubt upon the subject. The courts of admiralty here frequently acted upon the principle recognised in the bill. There was a case in the 28th of Charles 2nd, of an indictment brought against an English subject for cruising against Spain in a French ship. Though the principle was thus admitted, and acted upon in the courts, it did not follow, that a measure for recognising it was unnecessary at present. The same principle was acknowledged in the treaty of 1794 with America. It commenced with a stipulation, that the subjects and citizens of both nations
899Sir C. Robinson
872871870‡869868animus said, that when the learned gentleman asked for leave to bring in the present bill, he desired that he should alone be considered responsible for the measure, no doubt foreseeing the extent of the public disapprobation which it was calculated to produce. The noble lord opposite, however, in the debate which attended even its introduction, did not consider it in that abstract and isolated view, but as a measure connected with our foreign policy. That avowal was at least candid, as it brought the question before the House on its proper merits, and allowed those who disapproved of the bill, to grapple with the character of that external policy. It was proposed to rescind two acts of parliament which made the enlistment of British subjects by foreign sovereigns in these dominions death, and to substitute an act with an extension of the principle, but mitigating the character of the first offence to a misdemeanor, punishable by fine and imprisonment, but making a repetition of the offence, a felony, and punishable by transportation. That latter clause had been since withdrawn, in deference no doubt, to the expression of public opinion. The original intention of considering it as a felony was, however, a demonstrative proof of the 872871870‡869868animusSir Robert Wilson
ex parte highly as he valued the right of petitioning, viewed the present application as an abuse of that right. In what way could the House interpose, the petitioner did not himself state; and it was most desirable that such ex parteMr. Courteney,
l."That since the termination of the war in 1815, the property tax in Great Britain, and other taxes in Great Britain and Ireland, which yielded a revenue of upwards of 18,000,000l.927l.l.;l.;l.l.;l.;l.;926l.;l.;l.925924£.3,190,000Making in the whole
£.3,190,000Making in the whole30,000Pepper
30,000Pepper130,000Tea
130,000Tea130,000Coffee and Cocoa
130,000Coffee and Cocoa500,000Tobacco
500,000Tobacco500,000British Spirits
500,000British Spirits1,400,000Malt
1,400,000Malt500,000l.Consolidation of the Customs, including the 200,000l.
500,000l.Consolidation of the Customs, including the 200,000l.
£.3,190,000Making in the whole
£.3,190,000Making in the whole30,000Pepper
30,000Pepper130,000Tea
130,000Tea130,000Coffee and Cocoa
130,000Coffee and Cocoa500,000Tobacco
500,000Tobacco500,000British Spirits
500,000British Spirits1,400,000Malt
1,400,000Malt500,000l.Consolidation of the Customs, including the 200,000l.
500,000l.Consolidation of the Customs, including the 200,000l.l.l.;l.l.l.l.;923l.;l.s.l.d.sd.;s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.s.l.l.s.922921l.l.:l.920l.l.919l.:l.l.918l.l.;l.,l.;l.,l..;l.,l.l.;l.,l.917916l.l.,l.;"That to provide for the exigencies of the public service, to make such progressive reduction of the national debt as may adequately support public credit, and to afford to the country a prospect of future relief from a part of its present burthens, it is absolutely necessary that there should be a clear surplus of the income of the country beyond the expenditure of not less than 5,000,000l.;l.l.;"That the sinking fund applicable to the reduction of the national debt, in the present year, may be estimated at about 15,500,000l.l.;l.l.;"That the existing revenue applicable to the Supplies cannot be estimated at more than 7,000,000l.l.;915l.l.l.l.l.;l.914l.l.,l.l."That by an act passed in the 56 George 3rd, cap. 98, the revenues of Great Britain and Ireland were consolidated from the 5th of January 1817; and that in the year preceding the said consolidation, the nett separate revenue of Ireland was 4,561,353l.l.,l.l.l.l.913 said, that after the Report which had been presented on the state of the finances of the country, the committee would naturally expect, previously to any explanation of the arrangements which had been made with a view to meet the supplies of the current year, that some discussion should take place on the matters contained in that Report. It was natural to expect, not only that the general financial state of the country should be brought under the consideration of the committee, but also that some explanation should be given as to the measures which his majesty's government intended to propose to parliament in the present state of the finances, as in their opinion most suited to the situation in which the country now stood. To make such an explanation the more clear and intelligible, and to separate it from the more minute technical details, he had suggested the mode of embodying in the form of Resolutions the more general propositions, as to our financial situation, unincumbered by the particular details which would come to be considered on a future occasion. He therefore hoped that the committee would feel that it would be expedient first to enter into the discussion of those prominent features of our situation which were traced in the Resolutions that he had on a former evening laid on the table. In those Resolutions he had endeavoured, in as short and simple a manner as possible, to bring into view the most material facts, as separated from the details. He had made no reference to any distinct appropriations; because in whatever way they might he arranged, and to whatever degree they might be multiplied, the great and leading question must always be, whether the public in-
l."That since the termination of the war in 1815, the property tax in Great Britain, and other taxes in Great Britain and Ireland, which yielded a revenue of upwards of 18,000,000l.927l.l.;l.;l.l.;l.;l.;926l.;l.;l.925924£.3,190,000Making in the whole
£.3,190,000Making in the whole30,000Pepper
30,000Pepper130,000Tea
130,000Tea130,000Coffee and Cocoa
130,000Coffee and Cocoa500,000Tobacco
500,000Tobacco500,000British Spirits
500,000British Spirits1,400,000Malt
1,400,000Malt500,000l.Consolidation of the Customs, including the 200,000l.
500,000l.Consolidation of the Customs, including the 200,000l.
£.3,190,000Making in the whole
£.3,190,000Making in the whole30,000Pepper
30,000Pepper130,000Tea
130,000Tea130,000Coffee and Cocoa
130,000Coffee and Cocoa500,000Tobacco
500,000Tobacco500,000British Spirits
500,000British Spirits1,400,000Malt
1,400,000Malt500,000l.Consolidation of the Customs, including the 200,000l.
500,000l.Consolidation of the Customs, including the 200,000l.l.l.;l.l.l.l.;923l.;l.s.l.d.sd.;s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.s.l.l.s.922921l.l.:l.920l.l.919l.:l.l.918l.l.;l.,l.;l.,l..;l.,l.l.;l.,l.917916l.l.,l.;"That to provide for the exigencies of the public service, to make such progressive reduction of the national debt as may adequately support public credit, and to afford to the country a prospect of future relief from a part of its present burthens, it is absolutely necessary that there should be a clear surplus of the income of the country beyond the expenditure of not less than 5,000,000l.;l.l.;"That the sinking fund applicable to the reduction of the national debt, in the present year, may be estimated at about 15,500,000l.l.;l.l.;"That the existing revenue applicable to the Supplies cannot be estimated at more than 7,000,000l.l.;915l.l.l.l.l.;l.914l.l.,l.l."That by an act passed in the 56 George 3rd, cap. 98, the revenues of Great Britain and Ireland were consolidated from the 5th of January 1817; and that in the year preceding the said consolidation, the nett separate revenue of Ireland was 4,561,353l.l.,l.l.l.l.913The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l.938937936l.l.935934933l.932931930l.929928 observed, that the right hon. gentleman could not have devised a
l.l.l.938937936l.l.935934933l.932931930l.929928Mr. Tierney
l.l.l.l.l.947946l.l.l.l.l.945l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.944l.l.l.l.943l.l.l.942941940 said, he would not trouble the House at any great length, because the real question was contained in a very narrow compass. There were three considerations upon which it rested; the first was, whether the country, under its present circumstances, was necessitated to make any financial efforts at all; the second was, the magnitude of those efforts; and the third, the time when those efforts ought to be made, if it should be judged necessary to make them at all. But before he entered upon these subjects, he must make a few observations on what he must style the preliminary remarks of the right hon. gentleman opposite. The burthen of the right hon. gentleman's song all the evening had been, "I have no confidence that the ministers of the Crown will dispose of the supplies in a proper manner, and I therefore call upon the Crown to dismiss them." This was all natural in the right hon. gentleman; he could not help feeling sore upon the division against him on a former evening, and angry at the members who had swelled the numbers against him. He could assure those gentlemen that they were already registered in the right hon. gentleman's black book, and that they could never purge themselves, in the right hon. gentleman's opinion, of the guilt which they had contracted by voting with ministers; no, not even by voting against them on the present occasion. The right hon. gentleman had said, that it they had voted with him on a former evening, they would have discussed on the 18th of May what they were now discussing on the 7th of June. With due deference to him, that was not correct: if he had succeeded in his motion of the other evening, the Crown must have looked out for other ministers; and, in that case, he was inclined to think that the right hon. gentleman, with all the dangerous responsibility which he had described as likely to attach to any person who now took up the reins of administration, and with all the ill-health, which no man could regret more sincerely than he did, that the right hon. gentleman was subject to, would not have been able to prove himself so efficient a minister as to enter so soon upon the duties of his office. The noble lord then maintained, that the present administration had proceeded with the utmost rapidity in making all the economical arrangements in their power, especially in the army, navy, and ordnance departments; and argued that it
l.l.l.l.l.947946l.l.l.l.l.945l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.944l.l.l.l.943l.l.l.942941940Lord Castlereagh
958l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.957956l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.955l.954s.s.ad valoreml.l.953952l.l.951l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.950l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.949l.l.948l. said, he was quite ready to meet the noble lord on the ground where he had planted himself: he had undoubtedly put this most important of all questions to a fair and intelligible issue; and it was simply this—whether at this particular moment it was fit that the House of Commons should give its assent to a motion for raising 3,000,000958l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.957956l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.955l.954s.s.ad valoreml.l.953952l.l.951l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.950l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.949l.l.948l.Mr. Brougham
l.963l.962l.961l.960l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.959bonâ fide observed, that the opinions of the hon. and learned gentleman did not appear to be in strict consistency with the views taken by the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Tierney). The right hon. gentleman had treated the question as one that involved a breach of faith with the public creditor, and had argued, that by the proposed arrangement, the sinking fund was effectually taken away. He admitted, most distinctly, that in the fifth year of peace it was necessary that a full exposition of our financial system, in all its parts, ought to be submitted to parliament. This exposition had been made by his right hon. friend, the chancellor of the exchequer, and the House was now put into a situation to exercise its judgment upon any new or practical measure that might be recommended. The measure now under consideration could only be justified on the principle of necessity; and it was upon that point alone that they were at issue. He had hoped that this would be the view which would be taken of the question on all sides, and that it could have been discussed without reference to the lords of the Admiralty, or to any of the persons exercising the functions of government. It certainly did appear to him, that for some time after the gigantic and unprecedented efforts which this country had made, palliatives ought to be administered, but that it was essential to our security to return as soon as possible to a sound system of finance, and to look our difficulties in the face. We could not disguise either from ourselves or from foreign countries what our real situation was. The continental powers were exerting themselves to place their finances on a right footing. Russia had been endeavouring to restore her circulation to its former value; Prussia was acting the same part; and Austria had established a sinking fund. If they turned their attention to France, it would be seen that, after all her sacrifices and contributions, she was now, in a financial point of view, in a state of comparative prosperity. The last budget submitted to the legislative council indicated a revenue equal to the maintenance of every establishment, corresponding with the rank and station of France amongst the powers of Europe. She had a l.963l.962l.961l.960l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.959bonâ fideMr. Huskisson
 in explanation, expressed his surprise that the right hon. gentleman could have attributed to him the invidious doctrine of recommending the excise duties, attended with domiciliary visits. Every gentleman who had done him the honour of listening to what he had said, must be aware that nothing which fell from him bore the slightest reference to such a proposition.Mr. Brougham,
964 felt anxious, upon a question of such vital importance, in which every man, whatever his rank in life
964Mr. J. H. Smyth
 felt himself bound to rebut the false imputations which had been cast by the chancellor of the exchequer upon the gentlemen connected with the breweries of this country. He begged most earnestly to protest against the truth of the observations which had been made, and was fully prepared to answer them by entering into a minute statement of figures. He would not, however, at present trouble the House with the investigation, but he pledged himself to give a full and complete answer to these false accusations whenever the malt tax should be brought under the attention of the House.Mr. C. Calvert
968967l.summissa voce,l.l.l.966l.l.965 said, he had listened to the
968967l.summissa voce,l.l.l.966l.l.965Mr. Scarlett
969l.l. said, he would be the last man to agree to the additional burthen of 3,000,000969l.l.Mr. Bankes
 wished, before he commenced his observations on the question, to know whether it was the intention of the right hon. gentleman to meet it with a direct negative, as the previous question could not be put in a committee.Mr. Canning
 said, that the general course in a committee was, to move that the chairman should leave the chair. He had suggested that course to the right hon. gentleman before, and he appeared to him to acquiesce.Mr. Brogden
l.l.972971970 said, that the substantial point he wanted to arrive at was, whether the question was to be met by a direct negative. That point being now established, he should proceed to the question before the committee. Whatever, then, might be the merits of the proposition of that night, one thing was certain, that the committee would abandon its duty to the House and to the country, if it departed without coming to a decisive vote, leaving the country a prey to all the apprehensions and alarm to which the exposure of the disease, without the application of the remedy, would subject it. If they did not give it their support, better at once
l.l.972971970Mr. Canning
973 here rose to order. He could not listen in silence to the foul, offensive, and unparliamentary aspersions
973Mr. Calcraft
 thought that in debate there was tolerably fair room to give and to take. Whenever the terms "indecent and atrocious," which had been applied to this proposal, were retracted, then, and not till then, should he retract the epithets which he had applied to the conduct of the gentlemen opposite.Mr. Canning
974 went on. He had nothing to do with any other persons expressions. If his right hon. friend thought those epithets applicable to the measure before the House, he had a right to use them. He would briefly state his view of the question. It might perhaps be said, that he was one of those who had goaded the administration on to the present disclosure of the state of the country; but, admitting that he had urged the necessity of an inquiry, where was the pledge on his part, that he would support the measures that might be proposed for meeting the exigencies of the state? They were all agreed in their desire to meet these exigencies; but it was remarkable that not one of the gentlemen opposite had looked to the internal state of the country, to the petitions on their table, or to the distress of which these petitions complained. They only looked to the country as a subject of taxation; but he looked at the state of the people, and must say, that this was not a time for imposing fresh taxes. He had, God knew, no more confidence than his right hon. friend in the present administration; but if by the beginning of nest session, he should find the country in a better situation, he would agree to support the present administration in imposing additional taxes. He repeated, that it was solety on account of the internal state of the country that he opposed the measure at present. And was this a cause for the taunts of the right hon. gentleman? Did he think that his own recent conduct was forgotten? that it was not recollected how he had reprobated the gentlemen by whom he was now surrounded; how he had lampooned the friends on one side of him,
974Mr. Calcraft
 begged the attention of the House for a few moments. Of such members as were in the last parliament, he would ask whether they had not seen ministers at the beginning of the peace sit down without any regular plan of economy? Whether they had not seen them oppose the first motions of retrenchment, and whether they did not seem determined to suffer the country to groan under the heavy pressure of a war establishment in time of peace?—a system with which they would have continued, had they not been deterred from it by the strong voice of the public opinion without doors, and by the honest vigilance of those who strove to give effect to that public opinion within. Those members who had sat in the last session could never forget, what was the kind of retrenchment which ministers had thought fit to recommend. They began by an attempt to cut away from the poor pensioners. They wished to pare away the humble mite of the widow, in order to aid the labouring treasury. But the House had honestly interfered, and prevented this ungenerous and unjust attempt. The poor widow was considered to be the fit object from whose scanty stipend some paltry savings were to be made. She was to suffer because she could only complain; but if it was proposed to remove any of the large incumbrances on the public purse—if it was desired to touch one of those golden baits which were held out for veering politicians—if any of these were proposed to be touched, then it was said, the state would be undone—the public business could not be carried on.Mr. Macdonald
 said, he had very little knowledge of the circumstance to which the petition related; but that he felt considerable delicacy in taking any objection to it, as the petitioner was one of his most active opponents during the last election for Bristol.Mr. Protheroe
 said, he held in his hand a petition which he understood members of that House, of greater experience and judgment than he possessed, had refused to present. From his views of the invaluable right of petitioning, he had agreed to present it. It was from Mr. James Mills, an engineer of Bristol, complaining that at a late trial at the Old Bailey for a libel, where the petitioner was prosecutor, the judge who presided refused to allow him to address the jury; and further stating that the verdict was not the result of a fair trial.Mr. Protheroe
912s.911 said, he rose to present a petition intimately connected with that important, that fearful subject, which was to occupy the attention of the House that evening. The petition was from a person of the name of Brassington, formerly residing in Goodman's-fields, and one of those unfortunate individuals who were unable to bear up under the difficulties arising from the overwhelming load of taxation with which the country was burthened. He had been plundered of all his property, and reduced to absolute ruin, by those persons whom government had
912s.911Sir Robert Wilson
l.979 warmly remonstrated against the establishment of a new office
l.979Mr. R. Gordon
 did not mean to oppose the bill, because he thought the registry of slaves would be attended with beneficial results; but he agreed with the hon. member, that there was he necessity for the introduction of a large and expensive establishment in this country to produce those good effects. That it was intended to be an expensive one would be seen from the clause which provides that the principal officer in it should not have a seat in the House. The very introduction of the clause showed, that the person to be chosen must be highly respectable. As to the trouble which the establishment of the registry might give in this country, he conceived that if any gentleman in the colonial office, would devote two hours of two days in the week, he would do all that was necessary.Mr. Marryat
 thought the proposition of the right hon. baronet might be objected to without any discussion of the truth of the facts which it set forth. Admitting the correctness of the statement, it would be foreign to the present question to enter into an inquiry as to the cause which had produced such a result. A load of debt existed which must be provided for, and he trusted that neither himself nor the House were disposed to treat Ireland with injustice. He knew how to estimate at their proper value the exertions which Ireland had made during the war; but this was not a fit occasion for entering into a general discussion of the subject of Irish finance.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
992 said, the course adopted by the hon. baronet was certainly a more fair and open one than that which was taken on the preceding evening, by the gentlemen opposite. His amendment went to negative directly all that had previously been agreed to, and appeared on the Journals. Indeed, the effect of it would be, to declare, that the finances of the country were in such a state as did not require any remedy or alteration. It went, in fact, further. It declared that the people ought to be satisfied with their present situation, and that no improvement was necessary—[Hear, hear!]. It certainly did convey that idea, except so far as a remedy for distress could be devised by economy and retrenchment. Now, so far were he and his hon. colleagues from shrinking from a system of economy, that he had, in the last resolution, embraced all that was useful in the hon. baronet's amendment on the score of retrenchment. Those gentlemen, who thought that parliament ought not to make an effort for the
992The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l., opposed the Resolutions. This was not the period for adding to the burthens of the country. If it was deemed necessary to add to the sinking fund, let it be done by reducing the expenditure of the country. It was the fashion at present to propose reductions; he would therefore recommend the curtailment of the enormous expense incurred to the country by prosecutions for offences against the Excise laws. At present, five barristers were engaged on the part of the Crown in each case. Taking this expense at an average of 40l.l.,Mr. D. W. Harvey
987 said, that, however anxious he might be for retrenchment in
987Mr. Primrose
l. said, in explanation of what he had stated in the early part of the evening, and to avoid the charge of inconsistency that he would vote for the 3,000,000l.Mr. Primrose
 while he professed his hearty concurrence in all the resolutions, regretted that so considerable a part of the taxes proposed by the chancellor of the exchequer, were of a nature so immediately affecting the landed interest.Mr. H. Sumner,
 declared himself friendly to the principle of improving our income, and to the means proposed for that purpose. Those who had become the creditors of the state, on the understanding that the public debt should be reduced by a sinking fund, had a right to expect that the pledge given by the legislature for this purpose should be kept. In law and in equity they were entitled to the advantage of this fund, not in name but in reality. If he agreed, therefore, in the principle of increasing the efficiency of the sinking fund, he was no less friendly to the means by which it was to be done. The taxes proposed would most of them increase the income of the state without pressing on the consumer. The right hon. gentleman had proved this in the case of malt.Mr. Callaghan
978977 in a committee of the whole House, rose to state the object of the bill which he proposed to introduce, to be the prevention of illicit slave trading by means of a Register of the Slaves in the West Indies.978977Mr. Goulburn
 wished that the question of the currency had been settled this year, and the peace finance establishment with new taxes reserved for the next. Some embarrassment would be felt, as was contemplated by the secret committee, in the return to cash payments; and coupled with the new taxes, it would be impossible to separate the effects of the two measures, and to assign to each its due share in causing the pressure. In addition to this, it was to be recollected, that the great overtrading arising from the facilities which a paper currency afforded, when checked by the measures adopted respecting the Bank, would occasion many difficulties. These difficulties of course would be increased by the additional taxes proposed; and it was not unlikely that those who felt the pressure of them most severely, might ascribe to the one measure those evils which resulted chiefly from the other. Under all these circumstances, the more prudent course would have been to abstain from all new taxes in the present session. But the real question was, whether we were to have 5 millions or 2 millions of a sinking fund for the liquidation of the national debt; and he really could not discover on what principle those acted who preferred the larger sum, considering all the vacillation, difficulties, and dangers likely to be occasioned by measures affecting the trade of the country. With respect to the advantage of having this increase of the sinking fund at present, he would not give an opinion; because he was not sure of the capacity of the country to bear the additional burthens from which alone such an increase could arise; but if he was convinced that the country could bear the proposed increase of taxation, he should certainly prefer a sinking fund of 5 millions to a sinking fund of two millions. For these reasons, he thought it most prudent not directly to negative that proposal, but to take a course expressive of the opinion that this was not the proper time for carrying it into effect. He cordially concurred in the amendment.Mr. Abercromby
 brought up the report of the Resolutions relating to the Public Income and Expenditure. On the question, that the first resolution be agreed to,Mr. Brogden
d.s.980 rose. He did not mean to object that some measures for providing for the deficiency of income should be adopted; but he felt great distrust in those which proceeded from the noble lord opposite and his colleagues. He had heard in the commencement of the session, a long account from the noble lord of the flourishing state of the country; but he
d.s.980Mr. Curwen
 thought the plan of his hon. friend would be productive of the greatest benefit to the public, and that it only wanted publicity to ensure its general adoption.Mr. Curwen
994l.993 said, that all that his hon. friend's amendment proposed to establish was, that for the satisfaction of the country, every practicable degree of retrenchment and economy should be adopted, and until that adoption was determined upon, he, for one could not agree to any additional taxation. Without
994l.993Mr. J. P. Grant
l.l.l.,l.l.l.986l.l.;l.l.l.l.;l.l.l.985l. doubted much whether the surplus so much spoken of really amounted to two millions; he apprehended it would be found to fall 500,000l.l.l.,l.l.l.986l.l.;l.l.l.l.;l.l.l.985l.Mr. Hume
 said, that Steam-engines were at present so numerous in many places, that the smoke which issued from them clouded the atmosphere, and endangered the lives of his majesty's liege subjects. To prevent these consequences, he wished the legislature to compel them to consume their own smoke. He had made inquiries of those who were best capable of judging whether or not this was practicable, and all the artists whom he had consulted agreed in thinking it might be easily accomplished. All lawyers considered the evil which he was now desirous of remedying as a nuisance, and an indictable offence; and in a late trial before Mr. Justice Bayley, the Court had held it to be incumbent on the defendant to show, that he had used all the means in his power to prevent the nuisance complained of. His motion was, "That a select committee be appointed to inquire how far it may be practicable to compel persons using Steam Engines to erect them in a manner less prejudicial to public health and public comfort." If the motion were agreed to, it was his intention to examine artists on the practicability of the plan which he had in view; and then to move that the report be printed, in order to have it circulated during the recess. Should he succeed in convincing the committee of the benefits that would result from the adoption of his plan, he would, if he lived to see another session, move for leave to bring in a bill to carry the recommendation of the committee into effect.Mr. M. A. Taylor
984 commenced by an affecting detail of the miseries to which the manufacturing people of England were
984Mr. P. Moore
989988 objected to the imposition of even a shilling, in the shape of new taxes upon the people. The real question to be considered was, not what ought to be the amount of the sinking fund, for whether it was to be five millions or ten millions signified little; but Was the country now in a state to bear
989988Mr. Alderman Waithman
995 begged leave to state the grounds of the opinion on which his vote would be founded, as he had not had an opportunity of doing so last night. The vote of last night pledged the committee to a declaration, that it was now expedient to raise a fixed sum in taxes every year to pay off the public debt to a specific amount. In proposing this question, the first thing to be considered was, whether this or the following session was the best to determine on the arrangement of a permanent financial peace establishment. In the present session, the question of the currency ought, in his opinion, to have been settled, and that of the finance peace establishment left to the next. In this manner the arrangement of the one might have aided that of the other, and they could not have come into collision. But he was free to allow, that there were many and strong reasons against delay. The speculation that was going forward—the agitation about loans—the falling and rising of the public stock with every rumoured scheme of finance, and the consequent effect upon the property of every man in the nation, afforded strong grounds for coming to a decision as soon as pos-
995Mr. Frankland Lewis
 said, that it could not be supposed that he rose to object to the motion. One material part of the bill which he had himself proposed was comprehended in this measure. He could better judge of the details when he should see the bill. One thing he was ready to contend, and he believed it would be conceded to him, that registration was necessary to afford assurance that there was no illicit trade carried on. In vain had we passed the acts against the slave trade, unless we followed it up by measures like the present. He trusted that the French would follow our example. That great and generous nation would not, he trusted, suffer their banners to be polluted by this foul traffic. We were looking forward with earnest expectation to the time when no nation on the face of the earth would afford protection or encouragement to the trade in human beings. But far short of this were we at present. Not less than 50,000 slaves were stated to have been imported to the Havannah in the course of the last two years. The bill which he had introduced made the slave illegally imported free, because he was considered as involuntarily a slave. The hon. gentleman was mistaken if he supposed that the intention had been to give them nominal freedom without providing for their future protection. But whatever delay might be interposed in giving them freedom, he hoped those emancipated would be really taken care of. He trusted, that every island would either have a register, or not be allowed to carry any slave into it. If this measure should be carried into effect, and be accompanied with the good-will of the colonies, he should rejoice.Mr. Wilberforce
l.983l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.982981 contended, in opposition to what had been advanced by the noble lord, that the present resolutions were a perfect departure from the financial system
l.983l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.982981Sir H. Parnell
991 said, he should not be doing justice to his constituents, if he did not express his dissent to the present proposition. The noble lord had asked for confidence and accused a part of the House of not acting with openness and candour. He, for one, could not entertain that confidence in his majesty's ministers which would induce him to place in their hands a larger disposable revenue. What was the opinion which a retrospect of their conduct was calculated to suggest? They had been compelled most reluctantly to abandon the property tax, and to reduce the army estimates. The whole system of their administration might be judged of by these instances. That general distress prevailed was not denied; but the right hon. gentleman, nothwith-
991Sir M. W. Ridley
l.l. said, his object in moving the amendment was, to vindicate Ireland from the libel which was contained in the resolution.l.l.Sir J. Newport
l.l.,990l.l., observed, that from the wording of this resolution, a censure was passed, and would be conveyed to posterity, upon the whole Irish nation. Ireland had contributed her full share to the heavy demands that had been made on the united kingdom. In propotion to her capacity to pay, she had been taxed more severely than Great Britain. It was stated in a report of the finance committee, that, large as was the increase in the revenue of Great Britain, that of Ireland had increased in a greater proportion. Justice to Ireland required that so unqualified a declaration should not be put upon the journals of the House. He proposed, therefore, as an amendment, that it should be stated what was the amount of supplies actually raised, and what the efforts had been which Ireland had made since the legislative union of the two countries. It was no satisfactory answer to tell him that such a statement would contain a mere truism; it was right that the whole truth should be distinctly, avowed. Ireland had shed her best blood, and sustained the heaviest pressure of taxation, in support of the common cause; her incapacity to bear more taxes could only be attributed with truth to oppression and misgovernments With these views he should propose the addition of the following words:—"notwithstanding there had been raised by taxes on the people of Ireland, and paid into the exchequer, within the period which elapsed between the union of the kingdoms and the consolidation of the treasuries, the sum of 60,125,000l.l.,990l.l.,Sir J. Newport
 remarked, that the right hon. gentleman appeared to confound the country with the revenue. The questions for the House to consider' on this occasion were, first, whether the taxation proposed would serve to increase the revenue; and secondly, whether, if such increase would take place, which was problematical, it was wise to take so much of the capital of the country from the productive sources of industry, in order to put it into the hands of the exchequer? In his opinion, it would be much better to leave these three millions in the pockets of the people, than to apply them to the increase of the sinking fund, for the present he could by no means regard as a proper opportunity for such a proceeding, nor could he pretend to say when that opportunity would offer. The resolution of the right hon. gentleman with respect to economy, was not, it would be recollected among his original resolutions, and the motive for introducing it yesterday, could not be misunderstood. But, as the right hon. gentleman's resolution was a mere profession of economy, it could be easily appreciated by those who had any opportunity of judging of the sincerity of ministers upon that subject. He wished for a stronger pledge in favour of retrenchment and economy than that resolution contained, and therefore should vote for the amendment.Lord Milton
 agreed, that some decisive step should be taken for the effectual abolition of the slave trade; and if a registry in this country could tend to that great object, it ought to be adopted. This duty was the more imperative upon England, as by many nations on the continent her motives were suspected in this business.Lord Milton
 was inclined to think that there could be no sound objection to receiving any petitions against the resolutions. Even in cases where there was reasonable ground for doubting on the point of form, the House would rather be in favour of opening a door to petitions. When a committee of ways and means had once agreed to taxes, no petitions against them could be received; but as that was not the case in the present instance, he could see no objection to the petition being brought up.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought that every particular case ought to stand on its own merits. To the reception of the present petition, falling as it did within the admitted principle, there could be no objection. If any petitions should be presented between the concurrence of the House in the proposed resolutions in a committee of ways and means and the introduction of the bill founded on those resolutions, the same arguments would not be applicable. But, in his opinion, the best course would be to suspend any discussion on the subject until it should appear whether or not any such petitions were presented.Lord Castlereagh
l.d.s.d.s.s.d.s.d.1011d.s.d.s.l.d.s.s.l.s.s.l.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.1010d.s.d.s.l.1009l.d.,s.d.s.l.l.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.l.s.s.s.s.d.1008l.l.l.l.1007l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1006l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.1005l.l.l.l.d.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.l.£.31,074,000
£.31,074,00012,000,000.Loan from the Sinking Fund
12,000,000.Loan from the Sinking Fund12,000,000Loan
12,000,000Loan7,074,000
7,074,000334,000Old Stores
334,000Old Stores240,000Lottery
240,000Lottery3,500,000Excise Duties continued
3,500,000Excise Duties continued3,000,000Annual Malt
3,000,000Annual MaltWAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.£.31,074,000
£.31,074,00010,597,000By reduction of Unfunded Debt
10,597,000By reduction of Unfunded Debt20,477,000
20,477,000430,000Sinking Fund on Exchequer Bills
430,000Sinking Fund on Exchequer Bills
£.31,074,000
£.31,074,00012,000,000.Loan from the Sinking Fund
12,000,000.Loan from the Sinking Fund12,000,000Loan
12,000,000Loan7,074,000
7,074,000334,000Old Stores
334,000Old Stores240,000Lottery
240,000Lottery3,500,000Excise Duties continued
3,500,000Excise Duties continued3,000,000Annual Malt
3,000,000Annual MaltWAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.£.31,074,000
£.31,074,00010,597,000By reduction of Unfunded Debt
10,597,000By reduction of Unfunded Debt20,477,000
20,477,000430,000Sinking Fund on Exchequer Bills
430,000Sinking Fund on Exchequer Bills10041,570,000Interest on Exchequer Bills
1,570,000Interest on Exchequer Bills18,477,000Total Supplies
18,477,000Total Supplies1,950,000Miscellaneous
1,950,000Miscellaneous1,191,000Ordnance
1,191,000Ordnance6,436,000Navy
6,436,000Navy8,900,000Army
8,900,000Army£
£SUPPLIES.
SUPPLIES.
1,570,000Interest on Exchequer Bills
1,570,000Interest on Exchequer Bills18,477,000Total Supplies
18,477,000Total Supplies1,950,000Miscellaneous
1,950,000Miscellaneous1,191,000Ordnance
1,191,000Ordnance6,436,000Navy
6,436,000Navy8,900,000Army
8,900,000Army£
£SUPPLIES.
SUPPLIES.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1003l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.10021001 observed, that as the House in the committee on the report of the committee of finance had already entered at large into the consideration of the general situation of the country with respect to its finances, and had sanctioned, by the Resolutions to which it had agreed, the general principles on which he intended to ground the
l.d.s.d.s.s.d.s.d.1011d.s.d.s.l.d.s.s.l.s.s.l.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.1010d.s.d.s.l.1009l.d.,s.d.s.l.l.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.l.s.s.s.s.d.1008l.l.l.l.1007l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1006l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.1005l.l.l.l.d.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.l.£.31,074,000
£.31,074,00012,000,000.Loan from the Sinking Fund
12,000,000.Loan from the Sinking Fund12,000,000Loan
12,000,000Loan7,074,000
7,074,000334,000Old Stores
334,000Old Stores240,000Lottery
240,000Lottery3,500,000Excise Duties continued
3,500,000Excise Duties continued3,000,000Annual Malt
3,000,000Annual MaltWAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.£.31,074,000
£.31,074,00010,597,000By reduction of Unfunded Debt
10,597,000By reduction of Unfunded Debt20,477,000
20,477,000430,000Sinking Fund on Exchequer Bills
430,000Sinking Fund on Exchequer Bills
£.31,074,000
£.31,074,00012,000,000.Loan from the Sinking Fund
12,000,000.Loan from the Sinking Fund12,000,000Loan
12,000,000Loan7,074,000
7,074,000334,000Old Stores
334,000Old Stores240,000Lottery
240,000Lottery3,500,000Excise Duties continued
3,500,000Excise Duties continued3,000,000Annual Malt
3,000,000Annual MaltWAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.£.31,074,000
£.31,074,00010,597,000By reduction of Unfunded Debt
10,597,000By reduction of Unfunded Debt20,477,000
20,477,000430,000Sinking Fund on Exchequer Bills
430,000Sinking Fund on Exchequer Bills10041,570,000Interest on Exchequer Bills
1,570,000Interest on Exchequer Bills18,477,000Total Supplies
18,477,000Total Supplies1,950,000Miscellaneous
1,950,000Miscellaneous1,191,000Ordnance
1,191,000Ordnance6,436,000Navy
6,436,000Navy8,900,000Army
8,900,000Army£
£SUPPLIES.
SUPPLIES.
1,570,000Interest on Exchequer Bills
1,570,000Interest on Exchequer Bills18,477,000Total Supplies
18,477,000Total Supplies1,950,000Miscellaneous
1,950,000Miscellaneous1,191,000Ordnance
1,191,000Ordnance6,436,000Navy
6,436,000Navy8,900,000Army
8,900,000Army£
£SUPPLIES.
SUPPLIES.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1003l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.10021001The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l.l.1012l.l. expressed his readiness to explain that point to the hon. gentleman. He had already said, that he hoped that during the continuance of peace, the present would be the last time, that he or his successors in office should have the unpleasant duty of calling for a loan or additional taxes, except perhaps in the next year, for a loan of a very limited amount. In the present year, the sum of 13,000,000l.l.l.l.1012l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the Irish consolidated fund was sufficient to meet the immediate charges upon it in time of peace, and therefore it was unnecessary to apply the sinking fund of that country to the purpose of a loan. It was necessary, after the contributions made by Ireland to allow her to recover herself a little; besides, this trading in the Irish funds could not be to a great extent. When there was a loan of 30 millions here, no more than 4½ millions had been transferred to the Irish funds, therefore the present loan of 12 millions could not be supposed to affect those funds to any great extent. He saw no grounds for taking a gloomy view of the revenue of the country: he had stated on a former occasion that there was a perceptible diminution in the revenue in the last quarter; but since that period he had received accounts of payments having been made which, on the whole, turned the balance in favour of the present year.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. opposed the new taxes, and said, he was surprised that the landed interest supported them. Though the tax on foreign wool had been held out as a bribe to them, that tax would not alter the price or prove any protection to the home growers. The malt tax would be a much greater loss than the wool duty could prove a gain to the agriculturist. Farms were now scarcely to be let at the old rents. In Suffolk, in the midst of a bailey country, 700 acres could scarcely be let for 350l.Mr. Alderman Wood
 did not wish to pledge himself as to the course to be taken in the next year; but so far as could be foreseen, 11 millions would be required for the supplies of the year, and 5 for the repayment to the Bank. It would then be in the power of parliament to take 12 millions from the sinking fund, leaving 4 millions to be raised by loan, or any other means.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 disapproved of the proposed tax upon malt, not from any selfish consideration, but from a conviction of its general impolicy, and particularly of its tendency to discourage the growth of corn.Colonel Wodehouse
 declared himself to be against all new taxes until an experiment had been made of what might be done by retrenchment. Besides, of all the taxes which could possibly have been devised, the malt tax was the most oppressive. He had no doubt that the government had received the memorial which had been sent from the county of Norfolk, complaining of the distress of the agriculturists; and yet with this memorial before them they had come forward with a new tax which would press most heavily upon his constituents. The government ought to lower and not increase this impost. In that case, the consumption of barley would be increased, and the interest of the agriculturist in consequence improved. He should oppose any tax upon wool, tea, coffee, &c.; but he should oppose with still greater vehemence so unjust and impolitic a tax as it was now proposed to lay upon malt.Mr. Coke
 supported the taxes generally, but professed himself hostile to the tax on malt, as it affected agriculture.Sir J. Sebright
1028 would oppose all the proposed taxes, as oppressive to the lower orders, though not in an equal degree. He had been alluded to as having put a question to the chancellor of the exchequer some time ago, as to his intentions about imposing a duty on malt. He had been induced to put that question, not by the brewers, not by dealers or publicans, but by a large class of his constituents, who were drinkers of beer, and who foolishly thought that a tax on it would raise the price of the article. The answer was, that the chancellor had no intention of imposing new taxes, but it left an impression on his mind that if he did impose new taxes, a tax on malt would be one of the first. The chancellor of the exchequer had rested his opinion on the evidence of a gentleman before the brewers' committee, but it would require a great deal more than that evidence to convince him that we could tax an article without raising its price. Could the right hon. gentleman exert such influence over the brewers as would prevent them from throwing the tax on the consumer? He well remembered that when the war duty was abolished, they agreed that they would not reduce the price, but would improve the Quality of the article. And
1028Mr. George Lamb
999 said, that when he introduced the bill, he was aware of the difficulty of carrying the measure into effect under the present circumstances of our currency. He, however, had no option as to the time of bringing it forward;
999Mr. Serjeant Onslow
l.s.s.l.1027 declared his impression that no taxes could be selected more likely to have an oppressive operation upon the lower orders than those proposed. There was, for instance, but comparatively little consumption of beer among the rich, and as to the tax upon tobacco, upon whom would that operate? The tax upon tea was also mentioned. He hoped, however, that the right hon. gentleman would not attempt to extend that tax to the lower priced teas, which formed such a material article of subsistence among the poorer classes. But the fact was, that
l.s.s.l.1027Mr. C. Calvert
 wished to ask, whether it was to be understood that in the next year, as there would be 11 millions to be raised for the service of the year, and five millions to be paid to the Bank, there would be taken, as in the present year, 12 millions from the sinking fund, leaving the rest to be raised by way of loan?Mr. Ricardo
10241023 said, he had already opposed the grant of 3 millions towards a sinking fund, because he did not wish to place such a fund at the mercy of minister, who would take it whenever they thought that urgent necessity required it. He did not mean to say that it would be better with one set of ministers than another; for he looked upon it that all ministers would be anxious, on cases of what they conceived emergency, to appropriate it to
10241023Mr. Ricardo
998 presented two petitions, signed by near 700 owners and occupiers of land in the neighbourhood of Barnstaple, complaining of the depressed state of agriculture, owing to the great importations of foreign corn, and praying that a committee might be appointed to examine into the truth of their allegations, for the purpose of affording them such relief as the House might think proper. In presenting one of these petitions, lord E. felt it his duty to state, that among those who signed it, were some, of
998Lord Ebrington and Mr. Bastard
1018 said, he was confident from the character of the Bank directors, that they were utterly incapable of pique
1018Mr. Protheroe
l.l.1019 observed, that the country had some time ago been promised a sinking fund of 21 millions, and a total abolition of the war taxes. Now, however, it was found that they had only a sinking fund of two millions, and that seven millions of war taxes were still continued. They ought to remember the promises made in 1316. It was then said, that the revenue of the ensuing year would amount
l.l.1019 Mr. Bennet
1000 thought this question of great importance, as it involved the privilege of petitioning that House. He agreed with the right hon. gentleman in thinking that the ground on which it was alleged a petition could not be received failed in the present case, since the measure had not been confirmed by a committee of ways and means; and here he should have stopped, had not the right hon. gentleman gone a step farther, and opened the question, whether, if these resolutions had been sanctioned by a committee of ways and means, that would
1000Mr. Brougham
1030d.s.s.1029l.l. said, that if he understood the chancellor of the exchequer rightly, the tax was to fall upon the brewers principally, and not upon the growers of those commodities which the brewers used. That tax amounted to more than 1,400,0001030d.s.s.1029l.l.Mr. Brougham
 rose to present a petition from the manufacturers of Bradford, in the West Riding of York, against the imposition of any new tax on the importation of foreign wool. He was one of those who felt the necessity of that House providing taxes to meet the present wants of the state; but, while he admitted that, he was desirous that these taxes should not be laid on articles of the most material importance to our manufactures, and to tax which, went to cut at the root of the national resources. However highly he respected the petitioners, he should not have supported their prayer, did he not feel, that the view they took of the subject was correct. He should therefore, in every stage, oppose the intended imposition on foreign wool.Mr. Stuart Wortley
1026 after having ably vindicated the conduct of the brewers from, the charges which, on former occasions, had been brought against them, observed, that he would now offer a few words on the proposed taxes. There were some points in the plan on which he differed
1026Mr. Buxton,
 said, the more he heard of the new taxes, the less he liked them, though he had but little doubt that if imposed, they would be paid; but they would be paid in part out of the poor-rates. He was inclined to believe, that notwithstanding the untoward state of the country (which he could not help thinking would not long continue), the revenue would keep up to the 54 millions, at which it was estimated by the finance committee. The moment however, which had been chosen for the imposition of new taxes, was, in his opinion, as unfavourable as could be pitched upon; and though he thought it would be desirable to have a sinking fund of 5 millions, he did not think the terms of the loan would have been more unfavourable, if there had been one of only two millions. On the subject of economy he had heard a great deal, but he was still of opinion, that great and important reductions might be made. He had not been able in the present session to discuss the army estimates, but he thought those of the present year as objectionable as the celebrated estimates of 1816, about which so much had been said at that time. If he lived until next year, and had a seat in the House, he would make it out to the satisfaction of the House, that those estimates, were extravagantly large, and ought to be reduced.Mr. Calcraft
1020 said, if he understood the right hon. gentleman rightly, the sinking fund of Ireland was not to be made applicable to the purpose of a loan. The sinking fund of that country was greater in proportion to its stock than the English sinking fund was. In consequence of this, the commissioners found it difficult to invest their money; an act was
1020Mr. J. P. Grant
 said, that if new taxes were necessary on account of the financial state of the country, and if the lower orders were exhausted and depressed, the House had a splendid opportunity of introducing, not an income tax, but an absolute property tax—a tax upon the fundholder and the landlord, a tax upon themselves and upon the wealthier part of the community. He thought it infinitely better for the House to say, "Come and lay on a modified property tax of which we shall feel the burthen," than to impose any other tax. But if gentlemen would not have a property tax, he thought the taxes proposed were lenient.Mr. Mansfield
 insisted that the attack made upon the Bank was wholly unwarranted and unprovoked. Whenever the conduct of the directors had been alluded to, the hon. gentleman had constantly indulged himself in a violent strain of invective, unjustified by any facts he was able to adduce. If this practice were continued, of course the House would pass its own judgment upon it. He would not throw back upon the hon. gentleman any of the gross terms he had used. Whether the hon. gentleman were actuated, in his uniform abuse of the Bank, by any feeling of pique or revenge, he could best determine.Mr. Pearse
 said, that the information he had received had been communicated by a Bank director, in the open street, in the presence of three or four gentlemen, and without any intimation of secrecy being required.Mr. Grenfell
101510141013 wished to preface the few observations he should make by thanking the right horn gentleman for the very clear statement he had that night made; indeed it was but justice to say, that the right hon. gentleman's details upon financial subjects were remarkable for their perspicuousness. The right hon. gentleman had observed in the outset, that the discussions connected with this subject within the last few days had necessarily narrowed the view it was necessary for him to take of the finances, in bringing forward what was called the annual budget: it had certainly been his (Mr. Grenfell's intention to have taken some part in the proceedings of yesterday and the day before; but he yielded to those who seemed to have a prior claim. He agreed that it was not only desirable, but with reference to the best interests of the country, most expedient that it should possess a surplus of income beyond the expenditure; that it should possess, in short, a sinking fund. Assuming that the revenue would maintain its present level,
101510141013Mr. Grenfell
l. wished for some explanation, with respect to the 11,000,000l.Mr. Grenfell
 wished to know, whether the sinking fund hereafter was to be kept at work at its old nominal amount, or only to the amount of the real surplus of the revenue above the expenditure? He wished also to rebut the idea, that the appropriation of the sinking fund, as in the present year, which was authorized by Mr. Fox's clause, was any departure from faith to the creditor. The event mentioned by his hon. friend might illustrate this. When if was known that the sinking fund was so applied, the stocks rose from 65 to 69—a pretty clear proof that the stockholder did not consider it a detriment to his property.Mr. Grenfell
 supported the proposed plan of taxation, and adverting to the statements of the hon. gentlemen who so warmly advocated the cause of the brewers as to the effect of competition among that body in reducing the price of beer, observed, that it appeared from those gentlemen that the competition alluded to was proposed at a private meeting of the competitors, to consult their common interest. The right hon. gentleman maintained that the interest of agriculture would not be affected by the tax upon malt, and that agriculture was amply protected by the act prohibiting the import of foreign corn, but under certain circumstances.Mr. Huskisson
1017s.l.s.l.1016 was not much surprised at what had just fallen from the hon. gentleman on the subject of the Bank of England, though, considering the many opportunities he had sought to make attacks upon that establishment, it might have been spared upon the present occasion. The terms the hon. gentleman had employed, had certainly been far from courteous, but such at the same time as he was in the habit of employing. The compliment which had been attempted to the directors as individuals, he was not for one at all disposed to accept, when it was asserted that in their corporate capacity they had been guilty of a total dereliction of duty, and with acting in hostility to government from pique, spleen, and littleness of mind. He denied the charge most unequivocally. The hon. gentleman had talked of information he had received regarding the opinions and conduct of the directors in their court, on the subject of advances to the subscribers
1017s.l.s.l.1016Mr. Manning
 despised the compliments paid to him at the expense of his colleagues. The information on which the hon. member had spoken, must have been derived from a breach of confidence on the part of one of the directors, and if he knew who that gentleman was, he would be the first to move a vote of expulsion against him. He could assure the House, that the Bank had no pique against ministers, and he would add, that that body had performed their duty in a; manner which entitled them to the thanks of the country. The hon. member for Portarlington (Mr. Ricardo), found fault with the Bank directors for not having attended sufficiently to the interests of the proprietors; the hon. member for Marlow (Mr. (Grenfell), on the contrary, said, that the Bank had too many bonusses, and that the public ought to share in the profits. How were the directors to act so as to meet the wishes of both gentlemen.Mr. Mellish
1021 said, that if he wished to see a public commotion in this country, he would support, not only the resolutions before the House, but all the measures of his majesty's ministers. Though the
1021Sir R. Wilson
 said, the Bank had been justified in using their discretion in adopting measures to enable them to resume cash payments. With respect to the measure proposed, he thought it was ill-advised to add to the taxation of the country at present, as the people were not in a situation to bear additional burthens. The tax on malt he understood, was to extend to Ireland and Scotland, while the tax, on spirituous liquors was confined to this country. This would have the effect of injuring the morals, and lessening the comforts of the people of Ireland, as it would drive them to the use of spirits which would be cheap as compared with malt liquor so taxed. He hoped the right hon. gentleman would perceive the expediency of encouraging the use of malt liquor instead of spirits, as it was materially conducive to the morals and happiness, of the people of Ireland.Sir J. Newport
s. said, it might, perhaps, seem very inconsistent in him, who voted on a former occasion for the financial resolutions of the right hon. gentleman, now to oppose one of the principal taxes suggested by him. Such, however, was his intention, and he should do so from this motive—that the landed interest of the country had a right to complain of the manner in which their grievances had been considered, and their petitions received. They had been told, that their interests were sufficiently protected already by the Corn bill. But from that opinion he dissented entirely: the Corn bill was a dead letter in fact, and no protection whatever. The landed interest demanded only what every other body of men had—protection; a protection against the foreign farmer, who could afford to bring his corn to market at 40s.Mr. Gooch
 stated, that as the discussion on the usury laws was fixed for a near day, he wished, though friendly to the measure, that it should be postponed, on the ground, that it was impossible for a certain time, under recent measures, to calculate what the value of the currency, or what the rate of interest might be.Lord Althorp
10761075was10741073at one timeunder1072beforenotlongestwereseventeenshortest1071worn and wastedspeedylongleast1070plenam et celerem justiciam,detineantur in prisonâne hominesyear, and more often if need be.threegaolsAssizes, Juries, and Certifications,justiciarii in itinere,Nisi Prius1069de Odio et Otia,dilatio justitiœceleris,Nulli differemus,1068 rose, pursuant to his notice, to bring forward a motion, the object of which, he said was, to obtain a more frequent Delivery of the Gaols of those unfortunate persons who now often lay six, seven, and even eight months in prison, before they are brought to trial. It was possible some gentleman might think that a proposition of that sort, which tended to a material alteration in our present system of administering the laws, would have been better in the hands of some honourable gentleman who was a member of the learned profession; but the House would see that his proposal did not involve any intricate question of law;—it did not involve any consideration of doubtful justice, or even, he thought, of doubtful policy. It was founded upon a plain and obvious principle, which, at all events, in the abstract, would meet universal acquiescence and approbation; namely, that no man should be punished before he is brought to trial. And he then contended, that the interval between the summer and the Lent assizes occasioned a duration of imprisonment before trial, which was in effect a most severe punishment, and which could not be justified upon any plea whatever. He said, he was aware that any alteration of the criminal law of the country, or even of the established mode of administering the criminal law, should be received in the first instance with jealousy, and adopted with great caution; but his proposition went in effect to no alteration, other than as affecting those who have the labour of carrying the law into execution. There was no alteration even of any part of the process of the law,—the sole object was, a more frequent delivery of the gaols, and by that means to effect
10761075was10741073at one timeunder1072beforenotlongestwereseventeenshortest1071worn and wastedspeedylongleast1070plenam et celerem justiciam,detineantur in prisonâne hominesyear, and more often if need be.threegaolsAssizes, Juries, and Certifications,justiciarii in itinere,Nisi Prius1069de Odio et Otia,dilatio justitiœceleris,Nulli differemus,1068Mr. Western
 contended, that the statute of Edward 3rd referred not to justices of assize, but only to justices of peace, and referred only to a gaol delivery with respect to those minor offences cognizable by the quarter sessions. If the hon. member wished that there should be a more frequent gaol delivery by the twelve judges who constituted the present judicial administration of the country, he could assure him that it would be impossible. There was no class of eminent public men whose duties were so constant, whose time was so completely appropriated to the discharge of their various important functions, as the judges of the land. Even in those occasional cases when what was called a Special Commission was issued, the regular and ordinary administration of justice was necessarily suspended. The hon. and. learned gentleman paid a high compliment to the talents and devotion of the great body of gentlemen who as magistrates at the quarter sessions administered the criminal justice of the country, with reference to minor delinquencies, and suggested that a great alleviation of the evils complained of by the hon. gentleman might be effected were those gentlemen to extend their public services, by making such an arrangement in their various adjournments, &c. as would enable them to hold a sessions, eight, instead of four times in the year. Convicted, however, that a general gaol delivery could not more frequently take place, without an increase in the number of judges, a measure which he must long pause to consider before he could consent to its adoption, he felt it his duly to move the previous question on the hon. gentleman's motion.The Attorney General
 said, the hon. gentleman who spoke last had mixed up with the subject of the present motion another which had nothing to do with it, namely, that of the Northern assizes. As the courts of law were at present constituted, it was impossible for the judges to afford to all England a greater number of gaol deliveries than was provided for by two assizes. This could only be effected by some alteration in the number or constitution of our courts of law.Mr. Bathurst
 replied, that as government had, upon the repeal of the war malt duty, repaid the maltsters and the trade the amount of duty already paid on the stock absolutely on hand, they would be justly entitled, after the 5th of July, to take the duty on the stock then on hand. He could see nothing inequitable in his arrangement.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 having moved the order of the day for going into a committee on this bill.The Attorney general
 presented a petition against the bill, which he said was signed by a most respectable number of the inhabitants of Westminster. The petition sat forth, "That the bill excited in the minds of the petitioners feelings of inexpressible dissatisfaction, alike hostile to the liberties and happiness of the Spanish American nation, now nobly asserting their independence, as it was to the obvious interests of our own country, the said bill being contrary to that neutrality which ought to be strictly observed by England between the parties at issue, one fighting for that freedom which God and Nature designed for all mankind, the other for continuing over widely extended regions, a government of oppression and cruelty peculiarly disgraceful to the present enlightened age; confiding in the justice, wisdom, and benevolence of an English parliament, in the premises, the petitioners prayed, that the said bill might not pass into a law." The worthy alderman said, that he should oppose the Bill in all its stages.Mr. Alderman Wood
109110901089 contended, that if the arguments of the hon. gentleman were well founded, he had made out a case to prove that this country could not, without dishonour, avoid declaring war against Spain. If there were any foundation for the charges adduced, and if the gloomy colours in which the conduct of Spain had been painted were at all warranted, Great Britain had no choice left. Before he proceeded to the immediate question, he protested, in the most unequivocal and solemn manner, that the imputation against ministers, that this measure had proceeded from a servile acquiescence in the demands of any foreign nation, was wholly unjustified by the fact; it had been brought forward only from a conscientious conviction that it was required for the preservation of the honour and character of the country [Hear, hear!]. He could not expect that his declaration would be accepted as proof, but he protested, before God, that it was sincere. It had been charged, that ministers were acting in hostility to the principles of liberty: it was very easy to make general accusations, and very difficult to answer them but by a general denial; and this he gave in the most distinct and positive manner. With regard to the question
109110901089Mr. F. Robinson
110211011100Nolumus leges Angliœ mutari!1099Quos nec Tydides nec Larissæus Achilles——1098109710961095109410931092 said, he did not rise to oppose the motion for the Speaker's leaving the Chair, as he was aware there might be a convenience in proceeding to that stage of the measure. Against the measure itself, however, he entertained the most determined hostility; and he perfectly concurred in the intention expressed by an hon. member for the city of London of opposing the whole of it, with the exception of the first clause, which went to repeal the acts of George 2nd. That clause was clear, distinct and intelligible. It was open to the comprehension of every individual. It was just, and whatever might be the predominance of feeling in the breast of any one on a subject like the present, yet sentiment ought always to be compelled to submit to the dictates of justice. But, while he was bound to admit the expediency of that particular clause, he desired to be understood as doing so with regard only to the strict question of neutrality. Placing the question on the fair ground of our duty to maintain perfect neutrality, he would undertake to prove, that, with the exception of that first clause, the bill under the consideration of the House would be the complete destruction, instead of the preservation, of our neutrality. Differing as he did from the right hon. gentleman opposite on this subject, he must deprecate and condemn a measure which proclaimed war against the liberties' of America, which proclaimed war against the commerce and character of England, in order to conciliate the good opinion of Spain, and which was a gross departure from that impartiality which was unquestionably due to both the belligerents respecting whom it had been introduced. Denying, as he did, the claim of a foreign government to require from us the adoption of any such proposition, he would not oppose the bill on that ground,—he would not oppose it, because (which was in itself, however, sufficiently extraordi-
110211011100Nolumus leges Angliœ mutari!1099Quos nec Tydides nec Larissæus Achilles——1098109710961095109410931092Sir James Mackintosh
11101109110811071106110511041103 rose. He began by declaring, that there was not a man in the House who had expressed his merited approbation of the eloquence of the hon. and learned gentleman that was more sensible of it than himself, or that felt more
11101109110811071106110511041103Mr. Canning
11121111 said, that in rising to address the House, he felt the difficulty under which he was placed by the splendid eloquence of the two preceding speeches.
11121111Mr. Scarlett
1113 contended, that his hon. and learned friend had wholly failed in proving the principle with which he had set out; and he appealed to every member, whether the speeches on the other side were not rather appeals to the passions of the House, than arguments against the measure before them. If it were intended to depart from the neutrality which we ought to observe, it would be more fair and candid, and more consistent with the dignity of our national character, to do it in an open and manly manner, than to re-
1113Mr. Serjeant Copley
11151114 said, that after the powerfully eloquent, the unanswered and unanswerable speech of his hon. and learned friend (sir J. Mackintosh), a speech which the eloquent declamation of the right hon. gentleman, and the legal arguments and acute logic of the learned serjeant had left altogether untouched, he felt it quite unnecessary to occupy the attention of the House at any length. He felt it the less necessary, as he perceived that even into that House, the force of public opinion had found its way, and the term "insurgents" had not been attempted by any member except the learned ser-
11151114Mr. Brougham
 did not object to the manner in which the learned gentleman proposed to lake the sense of the House, which he thought would be a very convenient one. The repeal of the existing statutes which the gentleman opposite had in view, was not, however, a measure that carried along with it so much fairness as was attributed to it; There was no equity in reverting to the common law, after having acted, with respect to all other powers of Europe for the greater part of a century, on statute law. With regard to the treaty by which it had been asserted we were not bound, it ought to be recollected, that it was laid on the table, along with the other treaties of amity concluded on the restoration of peace; and that on the whole of the arrangements produced by these treaties, the most approving address ever voted by parliament had been presented to the Crown.Lord Castlereagh
1084s.s.s. stated to the House the extreme hardships which the proposed duty on malt would create to the maltster, nine-tenths of them must be ruined, should the duty be fixed as high as 171084s.s.s.Mr. C. Calvert
1077 observed, that all parties acknowledged the existence of the evil; the only difference was with respect to the remedy. He was not himself aware of the evils that would arise from increasing the number of judges, but he knew the evils that existed in the present administration of justice. He could not help
1077Mr. Bennet
lll wished to avoid any discussion upon this subject at present, not because he thought that it had been already exhausted, but because there was another discussion appointed for that evening, in which, not merely the whole House, but the whole country was interested. He could not, however, help rising to impress on the House the necessity of discussing every measure in its right place. He could not agree with the noble lord, that the late war was undertaken to protect the landed interest only. Whether that war was justly or unjustly entered into, it afforded as much protection to the poor man as it did to his opulent neighbour. He objected to the tax, because it fell in the first instance and unequally, on the grower, as well as on the consumer. It was not on persons of large estate solely or chiefly that it fell. A person in the barley counties, who had perhaps only 50lllMr. Brougham
 said, he had already signified his readiness to accede to the motion as it regarded our colonies, but he could not accede to such an inquiry into the financial situation of the Ionian Islands. Those islands had a legislature of their own, totally independent of this country; and the Crown had no more right to call upon the senate to furnish an account of their income and expenditure, than it had to call upon any other state to do so. If the hon. member would refer to the constitution of those islands, he would find, that the senate were vested with the power of appointing their own officers, without reference to this country, and ministers did not conceive that they had a right to enter into any such investigation as that proposed.Mr. Goulburn
 brought up the report of the committee of Ways and Means. The first six resolutions were read a first and second time, and agreed to. On the question being put on the resolution for the additional Malt duty.Mr. Brogden
 felt that some measure similar to that which was now proposed, was essentially necessary. If the hon. member for Essex should succeed in his object, he would do more to improve the morals of the country than bad ever been done by a single individual.Mr. F. Buxton
l10811080lll.;lllllll10791078 rose to submit a motion to the House for a variety of returns relative to the newly acquired colonies of Ceylon, the Mauritius, the Cape of Good Hope, Malta, and the Ionian Islands. All the
l10811080lll.;lllllll10791078Mr. Hume
l1082 said, he had a resolution in
l1082Mr. Hume
 said, as this was a subject that required very great consideration, he hoped it would be taken up at some future period. He hoped the hon. member would withdraw his motion; that the attorney-general would also withdraw his amendment; and that government would, in a future session, take into consideration the various acts of parliament on the subject.Sir E. Knatchbull
ds1083d.s.d.s. said, that when the House had been in the committee, he had proposed that the duty should be 1ds1083d.s.d.s.Lord Milton
11231122112111201119"Than are dreamt of in your philosophy."—"There are more things in Heaven and earth Horatio,said:—It is not my intention to go into any detail on the merits, or rather the demerits of the bill. I wish merely to clear up some facts which I stated on a former occasion, the correctness of which has either been doubted or denied. In speaking of the conduct of Ferdinand the 7th, I observed, that soon after the British army had, quitted his dominions, he directed a public thanksgiving to be offered to Almighty God, that his land was no longer polluted by the presence of Heretics.—The noble lord did not indeed deny this circumstance, but declared that he had never heard of it.—It might be a sufficient answer to the noble lord, to say to him in the words of Hamlet,
11231122112111201119"Than are dreamt of in your philosophy."—"There are more things in Heaven and earth Horatio,Mr. Marryat 
 said, that the hon. gentleman had, on a former occasion; mentioned, that governor Woodford had not only favoured the royalists, but had absolutely shut the port against a number of persons who had sought there an asylum from persecution; and that the consequence was, they were all murdered, and the shores for some miles whitened with their bones. Now, he (lord C.) begged again to repeat, that not only had the port not been shut, but that the persons alluded to had all been well received to the number of 3,800, and some royalist vessels which were then in the harbour prevented from following some others which had put to sea. As to the circumstance of governor Woodford's not allowing a particular individual to remain on the island, he could not exactly state what his instructions were on this subject; but the case was quite a different one from that of not affording an asylum to persons who had fled thither for their lives. The hon. gentleman had said, that the conduct towards the insurgents was barbarous. This he must beg to deny. With respect to the circumstance of thanks having been ordered in Spain, on the departure of the British troops, for its having been purged from heretics, he should give it but little credit; if there was any such thanksgiving, it was for having got rid of the Trench, not the English.Lord Castlereagh
 replied, that his majesty's government had issued a prohibition against the exportation of arms or warlike stores to Cuba, or any of our own west India islands, for the purpose of being sent to the service either of the provinces in insurrection, or of those continuing within the allegiance of Spain. They had taken precautions to guard against our own islands being made the means of thwarting the views of the parent state.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that any steps to prevent the exportation of arms to Cadiz would have been ineffectual, unless ministers had at the same time taken on them to regulate the trade in arms and warlike stores between this country and all the rest of Europe.Lord Castlereagh
 having moved the third reading of this bill,Mr. S. Bourne
1126 said, that the measure had been framed not with reference to the situation of any particular body, but as a general amelioration of evils arising from the practice of paying money to the parent for the support of his children. The
1126Mr. S. Bourne
 observed, that it was the poor laws which were the principal cause of low wages. If farmers were to raise the wages of labourers who had large families, they must also raise the wages of those who were without; and the consequence would be improvident, marriages or dissipation in the alehouse. He would support the measure, because it would take the children from the profligacy and idleness which they might see at home, and give them that education which they would otherwise be deprived of.Sir J. Sebright
 agreed as-to the extensive evil of the poor laws, and the difficulty of suggesting an effectual remedy. His objection to this measure was, that it would immeasurably extend that evil. It would operate most cruelly on the feelings of the respectable poor, and remove from those of a different description all restraint upon improvident marriages. By destroying all filial and parental affection, it would produce on the one hand a mass of misery, and on the other an extent of immorality that was not easily to be conceived.Mr. Philips
 said, that the bill was not a compulsory measure; nor was it intended that the schools should be any other than schools of industry, where the children of the lower orders would learn the means of earning a subsistence when they come into the world. Besides, the parents of the children would no longer receive any allowances on account of their children, which allowances were generally expended in idleness; instead of that, the children would receive the advantages proposed by this bill; and he thought nothing could tend more to improve the morals and condition of the lower orders than that of giving their children instruction.Colonel Wood
 denied that the bill was calculated to promote an opinion among the lower orders that they might obtain, under its operation, relief at will for themselves and children, and therefore was calculated to produce premature marriages, and an excess of population. He should certainly give it his support.Mr. Courtenay
 observed, that the clause was unnecessary, as its professed object was already provided for in the bill. The clause was rejected, after which, the bill was passed.Mr. S. Bourne
 objected to the principle of the bill, as it went to do away with the 43rd Eliz. which provided, that old and infirm persons only should be chargeable on the poor-rates. The present bill would have the effect of placing the very lowest and worst part of society in a better situation than the honest and industrious classes. It would enable the idle and ill-disposed labourer to have his children provided for by the parish, while those persons, whose parental affection induced them to keep their children at home, were to be deprived of parochial assistance, and left to struggle as they could to support their families. The hon. member moved, as an amendment, that the bill be read a third time on this day six months.Mr. Primrose
1125 said, that nothing was more proper than the issuing the proclamation by his majesty's ministers commanding British subjects not to render assistance to the colonies, bound as they conceived themselves by the treaty with that state, and empowered as they were by the common law to enforce neutrality. But in order to evince to the world their desire of preserving a strict neutrality, had they issued a similar proclamation regarding Spain—as they had the proclamation against one party, had they it also
1125Mr. Brougham
1124 expressed the same sentiments of governor Woodford's conduct.1124Mr. Goulburn
brought up the report of this bill. Sir R. Wilson rose for the purpose of speaking to the subject, when lord Castlereagh suggested that it might be better to have the amendments made in the committee printed before any fresh discussion was had upon it.Mr. Brogden 
 said, it was unnecessary for him to enter at present into the question of Mr. Seppings' merits, as he had, on a former occasion, stated his opinion of that gentleman's high abilities, and had agreed to recommend him as a navy-surveyor. He entirely agreed with the suggestion of the committee, as to the propriety of noticing the services of Mr. Seppings. The Admiralty accordingly had recommended to the Treasury to grant him a pension, which would be placed on the navy estimates and would be as honourable and useful to him as any grant that could now be made.Mr. Croker
 having presented some papers relating to the Navy,Mr. Croker
 expressed his fears, that the operation of the bill would increase the evils of the poor laws in a tenfold degree.Mr. Curwen
 seconded the motion. He could not consent to deprive the labourer of a share of the poor-rates while he knew, that in Coventry and several other parts of the country, the poor were working 16 hours a day without being able to earn enough to support existence.Mr. P. Moore
1128 thought that this measure had a tendency to decrease the evils of the poor laws. He had always considered that the great mischief was, the low price of wages for labour; he meant strictly the wages for labour only, because he was
1128Mr. Brand
 thought the most advisable course would be, to have the bill re-committed. His reason for thinking so was, that the only gound advanced on its introduction for the necessity of it was, that the former legislative provisions on the subject extended only to recognized states, and not to countries in the situation of the South American provinces; whereas in the debates of the preceding night, the ground of observing a general neutrality seemed to have been abandoned, and a new one taken by the noble lord, namely, the necessity of supporting a neutrality, modified as it was by the treaty with Spain in 1814, which the noble lord had argued, should be binding on this country; and it was matter of most serious consideration for the House, whether it would consent that regulations intended to preserve a neutrality, modified by particular circumstances, should be suffered to be made a rule for the observance of neutrality in all cases. He begged leave to inquire, whether ministers had used the same means to prevent assistance being afforded from this country to Spain as to the colonies—whether any thing had been done to prohibit arms, ammunition, and warlike stores being exported for the service of the former power?Mr. Denman
l said, that Mr. Seppings had received 1,000lSir Isaac Coffin
 said, it now appeared that the terms of neutrality which had, and at present did exist, were an unbounded supply of arms and warlike stores to the one party, and an absolute prohibition of them to the other.Sir J. Mackintosh
11301129 felt himself called upon to declare his sentiments upon a measure of such vital importance to every class of the community. The greatest gratitude, he thought, was due by the House and the public to the committee which investigated this subject with so much skill and assiduity; but it was a most lamentable proof of the imbecility of the legislature, that for so many years these evils had been allowed to exist without the application of one efficient remedy. There appeared to be a greater difficulty in carrying into effect any practical relief to the poor labourer, than in legislating upon any other subject, however intricate or however abstruse. It was most evident that the evil was either in the poor laws themselves, or in the application of them. He thought the application of them by our ancestors was the origin of the present unparalleled distress. The interest of the poor was the interest of society itself; and if it were possible that by the sacrifice of the few, the interests of the many could be promoted, there would not remain a doubt as to what ought to be the course to be pursued. But he was anxious to impress upon the House the too evident and most melancholy fact, that the minds of the lower classes were depraved by the present system of parish relief; their pride was lowered—their spirit was broken. It was on this account that this principle, which had been pur-
11301129Sir James Mackintosh
 then proposed a clause to allow the children of Dissenters at the proposed schools to attend their usual places of worship on Sundays, and to provide against any attempt to compel their attendance at any different place of worship.Sir J. Mackintosh
1118 said, he should take the oppportunity now offered of mentioning the case of Mr. Seppings. The committee of finance, in giving their opinion of the improvements made in naval architecture by this gentleman, had said, that "these services, although they have nothing of that brilliancy which forcibly attracts public admiration, will continue to confer a lasting benefit to the British nation, long after that period when the beneficial effects of victories, however splendid, shall have passed away." If such were the advantages to be derived from this gentleman's discoveries, he surely was entitled to as great a reward as was usually conferred on those generals and admirals by whom victories were achieved. He was afraid that the
1118Sir Joseph Yorke
 observed, that the conduct of governor Woodford would be found, upon the most strict inquiry, to have been unobjectionable. He had on every occasion conducted himself in the most impartial and honourable manner.Sir M. W. Ridley
 was wholly adverse to the principle of taking children away from their parents, and thus extinguishing all the natural affections of life. A similar experiment had been tried by the French government in Italy, and it produced such an alarm, and so much discontent among the parents of the children, that it was found necessary to discontinue the project.Sir R. Wilson
1127adscripti glebœ; entertained similar objections to this measure with those which had been already stated. He wished the House to reflect also, whether it was not calculated to perpetuate the evil, and to legalize that misapplication of parochial funds of which there was already so much reason to complain. There were three classes of persons who took different views on the subject of our poor laws; one class, agreeing with the principle of Mr. Malthus, was for their entire abolition; a second was for retaining them, and merely altering the administration; and the third, to which the right hon. gentleman professed to belong, would confine the benefit and operation of them to the old and impotent. But under the latter description of persons, children were not included, and to grant relief to them, as was the object of the present bill, was not consistent with the principle which the right hon. gentleman professed. If they ought to be ultimately excluded, why was this measure introduced? He agreed, that the evil of the poor laws was partly to be ascribed to the lowness of wages. Since the scarcity in 1795, there had been a strong desire among the farmers to keep down the rate of wages. It appeared to them better to make good the deficiency out of the poor-rates, on the ground that after a rise they never could be lowered. The object of the bill was, by an indirect operation, to raise wages, and stimulate the labourer to increased exertions; but this was to be done by previously inflicting much pain and misery upon him. Agricultural labourers were at present in some measure 1127adscripti glebœ;Lord Milton
11431142incuria,humana parum cavit natura.incuria fundit;1141114011391138 said, he felt it his painful duty to call the attention of members to a case in which their privileges were materially involved. The duty was in itself painful, but he felt the more reluctant to discharge it as he himself was personally concerned. No man could be more sensible than he was of the expediency of suffering all that passed within the walls of that House (whether by permission—the propriety of which he would not inquire into; or by connivance, as was the case at present) to be communicated to their constituents and the public at large. He was fully aware of the benefits which were to be derived from it in either way; but he thought the latter was the better mode, as the House would, as they now did, hold within their own hands the power of an immediate check upon any abuse of it. He was convinced that such an indulgence as he alluded to was liable to abuse, and of course to casual error; but whenever a gross and wilful misstatement of what had occurred was sent before the public, it was the duty of the House to interfere, to assert its own rights, and correct the errors into which the public might have been led. For five and twenty years, during which he had had the honour of sitting in that House, he had never complained of any abuse or incorrectness which might have found its way into the reported accounts of what occurred there. He would except one occasion—the last session, when he had to make a complaint of the same newspaper which he was now about to bring to the notice of the House. On that occasion he had felt it his duty to call the attention of the House to a gross misstatement of what had passed within its walls—a misstatement, in which not he particularly, so much as the House in general, was concerned. At the time that he had called the attention of the House to this circumstance, he declined taking any further step upon it, in the hope that the misrepresentation was accidental, and that the notice of it would have operated as a warning against any recurrence of the same nature. He was now sorry to find that that warning was without effect. He was sorry to observe, that a statement
11431142incuria,humana parum cavit natura.incuria fundit;1141114011391138Mr. Canning
 said, that as to the continued cheers which were said to have taken place, though he had made considerable inquiry, he could not find any individual who had any recollection of them.Mr. Canning
 thought that no man could have any hesitation in declaring that this misrepresentation did not originate from accident. With regard to the assertion, that no other misrepresentation had taken place in "The Times" paper, many days had not elapsed since he had had reason to make a complaint of this very editor. He alluded to the misstatements which had been given to the world respecting the case of captain Hanchett, regarding whose character he believed that an hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Bennet), entertained nearly the same conviction as he did himself. He begged to press upon the attention of the House the effect of these misrepresentations. Many of those individuals who were politically opposed to him at Canterbury, were disseminating statements of his case, which they backed with quotations taken from The Times. This was a most foul abuse of the indulgence granted by the House, and in the present case was of such a nature as to demand of the House, to interpose with its authority.Mr. Lushington
 said, that there was only one course for the House to pursue, and that was to call the publisher and printer to the bar of the House. The publishing of the debates in parliament, whether it was done by its permission or connivance, was of inestimable benefit to the public; but then it was proper that they should be fairly represented, and not converted into an engine to gratify private malice or party purposes. In the present case, he could not see how this misrepresentation was to be attributed to accident; and as he could not, it appeared to him to be precisely one of those cases in which the House was bound to assert the rights which it possessed. The breach of privilege was in the present instance of a complicated nature; the first breach of privilege he need not mention, as it was well known to every member in the House, and had now been overlooked for many years; the next breach of privilege was against the right hon. gentleman opposite, whose character had been calumniated; and the third breach against the right hon. gentleman to whom foul language had been attributed. There was no other course for the House to pursue than to order the printer to appear at its bar to-morrow.Mr. Wynn
 then put the question, that C. Bell be ordered to attend at the bar of the House to-morrow.The Speaker
 asked, whether the more usual way of proceeding was not to move a resolution that a breach of privilege had been committed, and then, after this resolution had been carried, to move that the publisher be heard at the bar of the House.Mr. Wynn
 said, that a case had occurred in 1805, where this mode of proceeding had been dispensed with. The printer of the paper had then been called to the bar, and asked whether he was editor of it likewise. There was, indeed, some difference between that case and the present: that case regarded a paragraph which commented upon the conduct of certain members of parliament: this related to the publishing, and the publishing incorrectly, the debates which occurred in this House. One breach of privilege was therefore most undoubtedly committed.The Speaker
 then put the question a second time, that C. Bell do attend the bar of the House to-morrow.The Speaker
 concurred in this suggestion; as he thought that the paragraph was conceived in malignity, and was engendered in falsehood.Mr. E. Littleton
 said, that the House would see the awkward situation in which its officers would be placed, if an order should be issued to compel the attendance of the editor, and the officers should not know who the editor was. The House was in the habit of receiving information from its own members, and therefore, if any hon. member knew who the editor was, and would give that information, they were at liberty to receive such information, and to act upon it as should seem best to them. The printer was known, and therefore they could summon him and examine him at their bar.The Speaker
 observed, that the printer and publisher of the paper were the persons whom the law considered liable for every article that appeared in it. The order, compelling the editor's attendance would be in the nature of a general warrant, which it was well known was illegal. Unless, therefore, any gentleman would state who the editor was, the best plan that the House could pursue was, to examine the printer at the bar, and to obtain from him the name of the editor.Mr. Wynn
 suggested, that there was one hon. gentleman in the House who could afford the information which it wished to obtain. It was the hon. gentleman who had carried on a correspondence with the editor.Mr. Littleton
 said, that he had written to the editor of The Times generally, and that the letters which he had received from him in return were written in the name of the editor, and dated from The Times office.Mr. Hume
 observed, that there could be no doubt at all of the malignity of the publication. He thought that it would be expedient now, as in former cases of this nature, to pass a vote declaring it to be a gross breach of privilege.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that whatever measure the House determined upon adopting, ought to be adopted with deliberation. This paragraph first of all was a breach of privilege; and 2ndly, a most gross and infamous libel. That consideration would come before the notice of the House more properly to-morrow.Mr. Wynn
11491148 observed, that there was
11491148Mr. Brougham
 again rose, merely because the hon. member had called upon him for an opinion. When he put the newspaper into the hand of the clerk, he had declared his determination to take no farther part in the discussion. He had discharged a painful duty in bringing the subject forward: he had done so after much deliberation; and whether such conduct were or were not fit, it had been influenced by no wish to gratify personal feelings.Mr. Canning
1150 observed, that the course recommended by the hon. member would lead to this inconvenience—that it would open the door to endless attacks of the same unwarrantable kind, that had been made, not only, on his right, hon. friend, but on the hon. and learned gentleman. He referred to the similar complaint made by that hon. gentleman, and to the milder notice that at his suggestion had been taken of it by the House. The hon. gentleman suggested that the same course ought now to be pursued; that further steps should be wisely abstained from; but it was precisely because the
1150Mr. J. W. Ward
 said, it would be against the established rule of the House to receive those petitions, as they were directed against a tax which was voted as part of the supplies of the year.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that as it seemed not to be the disposition of the House to receive these petitions, he gave notice, that when the consolidation bill went into the committee, he would take the sense of the House on the proposed increase in the duty on foreign wool.Mr. S. Worthy
 observed, that whenever a loan had been raised, a sinking fund was provided for, and therefore that the present duties were on a footing precisely similar to the duties which for many years had been imposed, and against the bills for imposing which, the House had never allowed petitions to be presented.Mr. Robinson
 said, it was better that there should be a rule against receiving petitions in cases like the present, than to receive, and then reject them. In the latter case, it would appear as if the House had decided against the prayer of the petition.Lord Castlereagh
 said, there was a note in Hatsell to the precedent alluded to by his noble friend, which did away the force of it. On that occasion the Speaker stated, it had been the practice for more than a century to make the city of London an exception from the rule; for when the sheriff of London was allowed to appear at the bar with a petition, the House could not be supposed to know the nature of that petition until they heard it read.Mr. S. Worthy
 requested of the hon. member to postpone this clause until the chancellor of the exchequer was in his place.Lord Castlereagh
1152|| said, he could not agree to the clause proposed by the hon. member, as it would have the effect of placing the
1152||Mr. Peel
 observed, that the great issues of the Bank were occasioned by the wants of an expensive administration, and he thought that measures ought to be taken to place the Bank in a situation to fulfil the conditions imposed on them by parliament.Mr. Dennison
l.l.l.l.l. objected to it on the ground that it would be improper to tie government up to any specific period when this sum was to be paid to the Bank. The hon. director knew that if the Bank had made advances on the present loan, as they had done on former loans, provision might easily have been made to repay this sum. Of the present loan of 12 millions, 6,000,000l.l.l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that the re-payment of the sum referred to by the hon. member had no immediate connection with the present bill. The sum of five millions, due by government to the Bank, had already been voted in the committee of supply, and that sum would of course appear in the appropriation act, upon the discussion of which it would be competent to the hon. member to bring forward his proposition.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1154s.l. thought it extremely desirable to retain these clauses. The hon. gentle-roan, in arguing on the effect which this measure would have on the value of paper, had taken the maximum of depreciation, and had said that, if you take a bank-note to the Bank, you will receive gold in exchange at the price of 41154s.l.Mr. Peel
 hoped the hon. director would see, that there was nothing in the state of the exchanges, or in the present situation of the country, to render the working of this measure alarming; and that the House ought not to be deterred from adopting it by the contemplation of possible occurrences. He had heard the report of an intended foreign loan, and the result of the inquiries he bad made was a firm conviction that it was unfounded.Lord Castlereagh
11571156l.l.l.1155 said, that with respect to the general principle of the bill, it was similar to the measure which passed that House last year, and was sent to the House of Peers; but the House would recollect, that the bill was returned much narrowed in its general purview by their lordships, and the inquiries were limited to such charitable foundations only as were connected with the education of the poor. He now submitted a bill for the consideration of the House, which would embrace a more extended object, and
11571156l.l.l.1155Lord Castlereagh
 supported the bill, and recommended that they should rather think of conciliation, than revert to any differences with any other body.Mr. Bathurst
 then moved, with a view of recording his disapprobation of resuming cash payments by intermediate steps, that the fifth and sixth clauses should be omitted.Mr. Ellice
 was of opinion, that there was strong reason for binding government on this subject, and thought that whilst' every thing was required from the Bank, nothing was done for them. He admitted, however, that there might be difficulty in making regular payments during the present year. The Bank, he conceived, acted wisely in refusing to make any advances upon the present loan, under the circumstances in which they were now placed.Mr. Ellice
l.l.d.s.l. said, he intended to propose a clause or two which he conceived important to the bill. His object was, to do away the alarm which was excited from the Bank narrowing its issues. If the Bank reduced their issues, merchants could call for gold bars in the course of next year, and would have the option of sending them to the Mint, to be coined into guineas at the rate of 3l.l.d.s.l.Mr. Ellice
 supported the clause, on the ground that the House ought to see distinctly that means were adopted for carrying their own resolutions into effect. One of his reasons for voting in favour of increased taxation was, that the Bank would thereby be enabled the more effectually to control its issues.Mr. Primrose
1159l.l,1158 said, he should give his decided approbation to the greater part of this measure. Upon a comparison with the bill of last session, the House would readily see his reasons for expressing his cordial acquiescence in the proposals of the noble lord. When he reflected upon the reception which that measure had met with in the other House —when he considered that nearly all the provisions of this unhappy bill had been the object, not of the most measured invective or the least sarcastic ridicule, both in and out of parliament, he was indeed surprised that all these clauses which had thus been indignantly rejected, were now restored, and had the singular felicity of coming recommended to the House by ministers. It was first proposed not only that charitable institutions connected with education should be the subject of inquiry, but that all charities should be equally investigated. "What," it was asked, "inquire into all the charities of the kingdom? Good God, what endless discussion! Why, there is not a village or hamlet without a charity. Confine it to education charities, and there will be some limit; but if it be extended to the whole range without discrimination, God only knows where it will end." Upon these grounds the clauses were rejected, and the bill had been narrowed. A few months, however, had produced a most happy alteration in the minds of those in another place. This led him to advert to one exception which the noble lord had added. A provision was introduced into this bill, "that all charities which had originated or might originate involuntary contribution, should be exempted from the inquiries of the commissioners." If the provision had ended there, it would have been inconsistent, for all charities originated in voluntary contribution. It was therefore added, "or where principally supplied by volun-
1159l.l,1158Mr. Brougham
1137 contended, that the precedent in question went farther than the
1137Mr. Brougham
 could not agree with the construction which Mr. Huskisson had put upon the precedent. If the petition of the city of London had been objectionable, as being against a proposed tax, it would not have been ordered to lie upon the table till the second reading. In 1720 a petition was received from the soap-makers and chandlers of Bristol against an increased tax upon soap. This petition was not allowed to lie upon the table, but it was read, and he conceived the same should be adopted in the present case.Mr. Brougham
 said, he should certainly oppose a measure, which threatened to impose a duty on the raw material of a manufacture, which was, at the present moment, peculiarly incapable of sustaining any increased pressure.Lord Lascelles
 denied that the duties against which the petitions were directed were, fairly speaking, for the supplies of the year. In the first place, they were not sums annually voted. In the next place, the supplies of the year were specific services, for which sums were voted. The duties in question were for the purpose of adding to the sinking fund, and consequently not for the supplies of the year. If, therefore, by any favourable construction, the petitions could be received, he trusted they would not be rejected.Mr. Calcraft
1153 suggested, that if the Bank were to sell exchequer bills at those periods when they had just paid the public dividends, their own notes would flow
1153Mr. J. Martin
1134 contended, that a part of the evidence given before the committee,
1134Mr. Morritt
 thought that various causes might arise to affect the exchanges and raise the price of gold, to the serious loss of the Bank. Among these possible causes were to be contemplated foreign loans. Indeed, the impression that a Prussian loan was to be raised in this country was very general. He was certain the conduct of the Bank had always been regulated by a desire to limit their advances, and at the same time a wish to assist government to the utmost of their power. He supported the amendment.Mr. Pearse
l. contended, that if many of the charities which had special visitors were shut out of the operation of the commission, not half the good would be done by the bill that might be done; and instanced the case of Sherborne hospital, in support of his opinion; the master of which hospital, Dr. Bell, derived, on the average, nearly 1,700l.Mr. M. A. Taylor
 rose to present petitions from Shepton Mallet and Frome, against the contemplated duty on wool. The petitioners stated, that, if the measure were carried into effect, it would occasion the total ruin of the woollen manufacture.Mr. Dickinson
, as the sense of the House appeared to be against receiving the petition, obtained leave to withdraw it.Mr. Dickinson
 conceived that the petitions were similar to those which had been already withdrawn. The noble lord might have found, upon a little examination, that the case to which he had alluded was not one precisely in point, as the law respecting the excise was one of regulation, not of an additional tax. That this tax was for the support of the sinking fund, was an erroneous impression; it was like any other tax for the ways and means of the 3year, and he conceived the House could not receive the petition unless they admitted the principle of receiving petitions against proposed taxes.Mr. Huskisson
l. observed, that the 5,000,000l.Mr. Huskisson
 expressed his disposition to modify his clause, so as to make the payment of the sum alluded to complete by the 1st of May, 1821.Mr. Manning
l.l.1151 observed, that he wished to propose a clause which he conceived essential to this bill. The Bank committee had reported, that in order to prepare for the resumption of cash payments, it was necessary to pay to the Bank 10 millions of the debt due to them by government. He had looked over the bill very minutely but could not find a single word which provided for the repayment of this sum. It was necessary, however, that some steps should be taken to this effect. If parliament made it imperative on the Bank to resume payments in bullion at a certain period, and ultimately to pay in specie, they ought to adopt such measures as would enable the Bank to meet the wishes of the House. His object was, to secure the opinion of the House, that the sum of five millions ought to be secured to the Bank, to be paid up at an early period next year. If this clause were adopted the payments would not commence until July, and would not be made up until the 15th of April next year which was more than two months later than the chancellor of the exchequer contemplated. In moving this clause, he was not actuated by any hostile feeling, neither he nor the other directors wished to
l.l.1151Mr. Manning
 said, that the bill, providing for this additional duty, had been read the first time, and was now awaiting the second reading. He doubted, therefore, whether the petitions could be received.The Speaker
 observed, that he believed all resolutions agreed to in a Committee of Ways and Means were, without distinction, considered to be for the supplies of the year. He was not aware of the practicability of making any distinction on the subject.The Speaker
 protested against, any alteration in the quarantine laws. Those who said the plague was not contagious, ought to recollect that it broke out in London in 1665, and swept away a vast number of inhabitants. Probably the infection would not have been destroyed to this day, if the city had not been burned to the ground in 1666.Sir Isaac Coffin
 brought up the Report of the committee appointed to inquire whether the plague was or was not a contagious disease. In moving that it be laid on the table, the hon. baronet stated, that he differed from the opinion contained in the report, namely that the plague was a contagious disease, since the contrary appeared from the evidence of several medical gentlemen who had been examined. Dr. M'Cleod, a very intelligent medical man, said, that it would be impossible to bring the disorder to England, even if a large premium were offered for that purpose. Dr. Mitchell had also expressed a very strong opinion on the subject. A considerable time since, he had broached the opinion, that the disorder denominated plague was not in its nature, contagious; that the sick might be visited with safety, unless those who did so came into immediate contact with them. From the evidence of Mr. Green it appeared that the Turks constantly bought the clothes of persons who died of the plague, which they were in the habit of wearing; and yet many of them were not affected by the disease. This evidence having been given, he conceived that he was fully warranted in coming to an opinion different from that at which the committee had arrived. The consequence of the dread which existed lest the plague should be communicated from foreign countries occasioned ships to perform quarantine, or their crews to be placed in lazarettos, greatly to the inconvenience of mercantile men. Now, it was remarkable that not one instance of plague had occurred since the introduction of this system, which was a century ago. If the plague had never appeared on board ships which, during that period had been obliged to perform quarantine, the fair presumption was, that the danger apprehended was visionary, and that the quarantine system might very well be dispensed with.Sir J. Jackson
1135 stated, that the bills in question were founded on resolutions originally agreed to in a committee of the whole House, but not in a committee of
1135Lord Milton
 observed, that the question was, whether the bill alluded to, and the other bills of the same description, were for the supplies of the year? He thought they were not so. They were not to furnish the supplies of the year, but to support a sinking fund for the reduction of the national, debt. Now, it appeared to him, that not being bills for furnishing the supplies of the year, the House ought not to close its doors against petitions which might be presented against them. This was a parliamentary distinction, which, he believed, had been recognized more than once.Lord Milton
1136 said, he had two petitions to present against the proposed duty on wool, and notwithstanding the recent decision of the House, he would endeavour to show that they ought to be received. It had been stated by the highest authority in the House that such petitions could not be received. By an entry in the Journals for 1733, it appeared that on the 10th of April a petition was presented by the sheriffs of London, against the excise duties (the bill for imposing which had been read a first time), praying to be heard by themselves or counsel against the second reading of the bill: A debate arose, and after a recurrence to a number of precedents, the result was, that the petition should be allowed to be on the table until
1136Lord Milton
 was then called in and examined.Mr. Collier
.—Are the papers to which you have just alluded a transcript from your notes?—They are from my shorthand notes; that is to say, as far as the confusion I have alluded to would permit.—Have you the original notes from which you copied?—I have not; and though I have used every diligence in looking for them this morning, I have not been able to find them; the reason, perhaps, will be explained by the circumstance, that being occupied in other pursuits, I often write upon the slips which I have used in taking my short-hand notes.Mr. Bathurst
 wished to know whether the parenthesis, mentioning the cheers, was inserted in the copy?—It was.—Was the name of Mr. Canning mentioned in the witness's copy?—It was.—Was it from the stranger in the gallery that the witness received information as to the name? —The stranger mentioned it; but I had a strong feeling that allusion was made to Mr. Canning by the hon. member, and I then noticed it. In allusion to a smile from the other side, I think I recollect the hon. member having said, "ministers may laugh, but let them look at the other side of the picture," and I followed up the sentence with the information supplied by the stranger. I have since seen the hon. member's own account of that part of his speech, and that is the only circumstance which induces me to think that I was mistaken.Mr. Bathurst
 thought the hon. and learned gentleman right in his construction of the rule of proceeding, that the punishment should be commensurate with the terms of the resolution. The course proposed appeared to him to be that pointed out by the nature of the case, although the extent of the punishment might be matter of subsequent deliberation. Adverting to the evidence, some of the circumstances stated appeared to be somewhat singularly co-incident—that the passage in question should have been so imperfectly heard; that the witness should have adopted the rest on the representation of a mere stranger; that it should have been put so offensively; and that the name, with the addition of cheers, should have been inserted in a parenthesis. He thought that, under all these circumstances, the House could not do less than adopt the resolution. Another unfortunate incident was, the loss of the witness's notes, which it was extremely desirable to have had produced.Mr. Bathurst
1168¶ observed, that he regarded the defence which had been made by the gentleman who had withdrawn from the bar as a most ingenuous, rather than as that ingenious one which the right hon. gentleman seemed to consider it. It had about it every natural indication of sincerity; and the statement which had been made bore with it all the appearance of truth. For himself he might observe, that having frequently observed the right hon. gentleman (Canning) prone to associate ludicrous images with subjects of distress [cries of No, no!] if, then, he was mistaken on this point, it was not surprising that the witness should also have been deceived. His whole deportment at the bar established the fact, that the mis-
1168¶Mr. Philips
1169 said, that if the proper course of proceeding had not been before evident, the speech of the hon. gentleman was calculated to guide them to it. The hon. gentleman had made one more of those attempts that had of late been so frequent, to impute to his right hon. friend conduct and feelings of which he was incapable. If such imputations were followed up in the daily prints, he would leave it to the House to judge what must become of the privileges of parliament. He must deny that the question of intention was one to which the House was at all bound to advert; it was into the truth of the averments alone they ought to inquire; for it was obviously impossible to trace the actual motive operating upon a reporter's mind. If they found that the character and qualities ascribed to it did belong to the paper in question—that it did contain a false and calumnious account of what had taken place within the House; then, however the manner of the individual might have impressed them in his favour, it was their duty to mark their sense of it in distinct and unequivocal terms. With regard to the circumstance of the offensive passage being adopted on the suggestion of a stranger, be was not disposed to consider that this would furnish any excuse, even if the account were true beyond all doubt. The hon. and learned gentleman had admitted that he was ready to affirm the resolution, and was merely desirous that the consequences should not be pushed too far. But how would the House stand, if, after a resolution had been passed, declaring that a gross libel had been published on their proceedings, they should be satisfied with a mere reprimand, when the defence that induced them thus to mitigate their judgment could not appear on their Journals? After a commitment, the circumstances of extenuation or explanation might be set forth in a petition, and an opportunity be thus afforded for recording the grounds of that lenient consideration which the House might be disposed to entertain. But if they had any regard for their own
1169Lord Castlereagh
 said, he had not meant to justify the publication, but to object to any terms in the resolution that should express or imply an intention on the part of the author to misrepresent. In his other observations he had been influenced by no wish to reflect on the right hon. gentleman.Mr. Philips
1166 said, he had heard nothing which could make him alter the opinion
1166Mr. Wynn
 said, the last two speeches would be sufficient to guide his vote, if it had not been previously determined on the same side. He, for one, was ready without hesitation to state upon his honour that he believed the witness had not been influenced by the malignant feeling, or desire, to insult the right hon. gentleman. He did not mean to justify the report, and was persuaded the day before that it was a calumnious libel. The hon. mover would hardly have offered so strong a resolution to the House, if he had drawn it up after he had heard what had been stated at the bar. Anxious as he was to support the privileges of the House, he should be sorry to do so by an act of oppression. He should willingly vote that the publication was an unjustifiable breach of privilege; but as he could not keep intention out of his view, and as an unqualified apology had been made, he could not join in any vote, the almost necessary consequence of which would be a commitment to Newgate.Mr. Hutchinson
 said, that the first part of his resolution was, that the words were a scandalous misrepresentation of the debates and proceedings of that House. Was there any man who could read an account of what was said to have passed, as reported in that paper, and contrast it with the account of what did really pass, as given, by the hon. member, and not say that this was a most gross and scandalous misrepresentation? He referred particularly to that part about which he had heard no explanation—he meant the "continued cheers." Now, that was a circumstance which the reporter could not possibly mistake. The second part of the resolution was, that this was a calumnious libel on one of the members of that House. Now, if the passage did not amount to a calumnious libel on the right hon. gentleman, he did not know what was a calumnious libel. The concluding allegation was, that this was an aggravated breach of privilege. Now, when it was considered that the taking any report of their proceedings was a breach of privilege, he did not think that to the present case he could apply a slighter expression.—The resolution was agreed to.Mr. Wynn
1173 said it now became his duty to follow up the measure which the House had just agreed to. It was necessary that some punishment should be inflicted upon the individual who had been guilty of so great a breach of privilege. At the same time, he wished to take into consideration every circumstance which could be taken to be in extenuation. He did not repent their having listened to those observations which they had just heard, because he did think this that reasonable course, which not mercy alone but justice called for. When an individual came before them to speak to a subject of this nature, he should be permitted to state any circumstance which could go in extenuation. He well knew that it was impossible to give the exact expression of any man, but he could not conceive how it was
1173Mr. Wynn
1174 said, that with respect to what had fallen from the hon. gentleman about the "cheers" upon which so much had been observed, he was entering the House at the time alluded to, and was on the floor, when he certainly did hear several cheers from those benches. The hon. member said, he was of opinion that this misrepresentation originated in mistake, he was the more inclined to think
1174Mr. Gurney
 was afraid there was no precedent in a case of this kind, of a committal to the serjeant at arms instead of to Newgate. In this case, he had no wish to press an unusual severity of punishment; he was anxious only that they should assert their own privileges, and administer justice tempered with mercy.Mr. Bankes
 said, that the old place of committal was to the Gate-house, but in later times it was to Newgate; and in selecting that prison, perhaps they would be consulting the convenience of the individual, and avoiding for him the expense which being in the custody of the serjeant at arms would induce. He had no objection to frame his motion either way.Mr. Wynn
 thought himself bound to state, that on the evening of the debate he had sat behind the hon. member (Mr. Hume), and had a distinct recollection of the following expression:—"The right hon. gentleman, and the hon. gentlemen around him, may smile." Soon after this there certainly were several cheers, although, no doubt, a few sentences intervened, which were lost in the gallery.Mr. Williams
nem. con. said, he did not feel the least difficulty in acceding to the general wish of the House. He was; therefore, ready to alter the words of his motion, and he trusted sufficient would have been done to warn the daily press against a repetition of the offence which brought the individual in question under the displeasure of the House.nem. con.Mr. Wynn
1178, in bringing up certain papers relative to the cession of Parga, said, he wished to undeceive the House as to the part which our government had acted; we had never delivered Parga up to the Turks; all we agreed to in the treaty was, to withdraw our troops from the town, and leave the inhabitants to themselves. The only object the Parguinotes had, was, that the British government should make the best terms which it could for them. No authority had been given to any British officer to hold out to these people the prospect that this government would take them under its protection. No officer had given them any promise by which the good faith of the British government could be compromised; for the terms of our treaty had been fulfilled by the withdrawing of our troops. In the Ionian islands they could be protected by our government, and there they would be treated with every
1178Lord Castlereagh
 was ready to admit, that all the treaties between Russia and Turkey, and those between France and this country, particularly the treaty of Amiens, bad been revived; but still he thought the case stood in favour of the Parguinotes— in favour of our defending them. If the treaty of 1800 was revived, and we, in terms of it, were obliged to deliver up Parga to the fate to which that treaty consigned it, the noble lord entirely overlooked the power which the inhabitants retained in that treaty to provide for themselves. If we revived the treaty in favour of one party, we were surely bound to enforce the provisions which it contained in favour of the other. By a supplementary treaty, the Ottoman Porte agreed to the independence of the Parguinotes, on condition of their allowing a Turkish superintendent to reside in their town; but that arrangement had been overthrown by the unfortunate state of things between Russia and Turkey. Let those, therefore, who were in a beneficial state before the treaty was broken, be restored to their former condition, when the treaty was again recognized. The Parguinotes, in virtue of former treaties, had a claim on Turkey. The effects of the arrangement to which the noble lord had agreed, were, that he had forfeited the good will of Greece, and given up the key to supplies from the Albanian continent. In connexion with this question, we ought to consider the influence which France, Russia, and Austria, were gaining in the divan. Every one knew that the Turkish trade was of great advantage to this country; and if we had cultivated the good will of the Grecian islands which we took under our protection, we should have had an additional security and facility for that trade. At present, however, we had only laid ourselves under the difficulty of protecting islands that were not able to maintain themselves. He should have entered into the question at greater length, but for the calamitous news which had reached this country, and which rendered any thing he might say useless.Sir C. Monk
ex parte,l. said, that the valuation had been made by commissioners appointed by both parties. The estimate of 500,000ex parte,l.Lord Castlereagh
 contended, that unless we had agreed to this treaty, we must have taken upon ourselves the military defence of Parga. The question was purely one of compassion and generosity. We had procured for them indemnity on leaving their homes, because they could not rely on their own means of self defence. If we were bound to maintain them in their territory, he was willing to allow that no pecuniary compensation would be adequate for the loss of it. But it ought to be proved that it belonged to the Ionian islands, and that therefore we were bound to protect its inhabitants; whereas the treaty of Paris had distinctly separated the two possessions. If they could rely upon their own resources, we might retire and, leave them to defend themselves.Mr. Bathurst
 rose and informed the House, that a Stranger had been just reported to him as being in the custody of the Serjeant at Arms. The Serjeant was then called in, and reported, that in pursuance of the Sessional Order of the 21st of January, he had taken into custody a Stranger, who was in the gallery while the House was sitting, and that the said person is still in his custody.The Speaker
 then informed the House of the circumstances of the case, and of offensive expressions having been used by the stranger to a messenger of the House.The Speaker
, a messenger of the House, was then called, and being examined, he stated, that, being in the side-gallery, he observed a person who was sitting in the front row of the Strangers' gallery taking notes of what was passing in the House; and he being desired by the said W. Gifford to desist, refused to do so, advanced his note-book higher than before, and said to W. Gifford, "Go to Hell." Upon this, W. G. went and reported this matter to the deputy Serjeant at Arms, and then returning to the side-gallery, he found that another person who had been taking notes had desisted, but the person now in custody was holding his book higher than before; and that the deputy serjeant, having received the directions of the Speaker, had then taken into custody this stranger—whose name was Peter Finnerty.William Gifford
1183 said, that from what they had heard, there appeared to be no circumstance of extenuation in this case as in the last: he suggested, therefore, whether it would pot be as well to leave the
1183Mr. Bankes
 was of opinion, that the proper course would be, to bring the individual to the bar to hear what he had to say in his justification.Mr. Denman
 was then brought to the bar in custody, and, being examined, denied having used the expression imputed to him. He thought it impossible, from his general manners and habits, that he could have used such language; and in excuse of any warmth or contumacy which he might have manifested, alleged that the messenger had addressed him uncivilly, saying "Finnerty, you are not to write mere, put down your book:" that he had been a reporter of debates for twenty years, and had never before heard of the rule that the reporters were to confine themselves to the back row: that he and all the reporters were deeply interested in the business of the evening, and therefore he had advanced to the front row.Mr. Finnerty
1184 was again called in, and being examined, he further stated, that the expression used by Mr. Finnerty was, "Go to hell;" that he addressed him civilly, saying, "Mr. Finnerty." The front row of the gallery was full, and two others were taking notes, who desisted when desired.—That P. F. did not retire to the back seat of the gallery till the order had been given to take him into custody; but believes he was not then aware of such order. That the invariable rule against taking notes in the front of the gallery was known to all the reporters. That to his knowledge, Mr. Finnerty had frequented the gallery as a reporter for 10 years; ever since W. G. had been employed at the House of Commons. That P. F. had never to his knowledge attempted to take notes before, sitting in the front row: that P. F, did not move when desired: that when W. G. returned
1184William Gifford
 (another messenger of the House) was then called in, and being examined, he stated that he heard W. G. request P. F. to desist from taking notes; and heard the latter say in reply, "Go to hell," as audibly as J. P. was then speaking at the bar. Moreover, that P. F. did not desist, but conspicuously elevated his book. The witness was within two feet of W. G., about a yard and a half from P. F. at the time. That at last P. F. withdrew when ordered.John Pratt
 (another messenger of the House) was then called in, and being examined, stated, That he heard W. G. desire P. F. to desist from taking notes in the front row of the gallery, and he heard P. F. say, "Go to hell." That W. G. addressed him as "Mr. Finnerty." The witness does not know any of the strangers who sat near P. F.Charles Stein
 said, that under the circumstances of the case, after the course which the prisoner at the bar had thought proper to adopt, in wholly denying a charge that had since been substantiated in evidence, he thought the House, in vindication of its own honour and in support of its privileges, was called on to take a severer course than was usual. He should therefore move, "That Peter Finnerty be committed-to his majesty's gaol of Newgate."Mr. Wynn
 did not rise to oppose the proceeding the House might think proper to adopt, but to submit to its consideration a circumstance that had come to his knowledge since the individual was brought to the bar. The individual still persisted in asserting, that he was not conscious of having used the expression imputed to him, or any other offensive expression towards the messenger; but, if he were permitted to appear at the bar again, he was ready to express his sincere sorrow for having given offence, if, without any recollection, he had done so. He would submit to the House the propriety of giving the individual the opportunity of offering an apology to the House. [Cries of No!]. If his hon. friend would withdraw his motion, he would, unless the sense of the House was against him, move, "That Mr. Finnerty be again called to the bar."Sir J. Mackintosh
 said, that many individuals in the gallery had heard the conversation, and had also heard what had been stated at the bar; and he was convinced that if they believed the stranger had been unjustly accused of using the offensive expression, they would have volunteered their evidence to free him from the charge. This circumstance established the fact, beyond the possibility of a doubt, that the stranger had used the offensive and disrespectful expression imputed to him.Sir C. Burrell
 said, he was acquainted with two respectable gentlemen who were in the gallery when the circumstance took place, and from whom, perhaps, if examined, some further information might be collected.Mr. Pares
, an inhabitant of Leicester, was called at the suggestion of Mr. Pares, and being examined, stated, That he sat within two or three of P. F., and between him and the messengers who were about four yards distant; did not hear him say, "Go to hell;" rather thinks he said, "I don't care a damn for you." He did not see him advance his note-book higher; but he did not take down his book, and continued writing in it.—His reply to the messenger followed immediately, without consideration.Thomas Boswell
, another inhabitant of Leicester, was then called in, and being examined, he stated, That when the messenger desired P. F. to desist from taking notes in the front gallery, his reply was, "That he would speak to the Speaker,—or appeal to the Speaker." Did not hear him say, "Go to hell." Does not know that he said, "I don't care a damn." Did not hear that; but believes he did hear him say, "I don't care a something." He did not desist from taking notes.James Darglas
, esq. a magistrate of the county of Lincoln, called in and examined; he stated, That P. F. was writing on the green cloth before him, in the front of the gallery. That the request of the messenger, that he would desist, was not complied with. That P. F. said immediately, "Go to hell," and further, "Go and be damned;" and with an oath in the phrase, said, "I'll appeal to the Speaker." —The witness sat next to P. F. on the right hand side,—knew him to be P. F. because he had been confined in Lincoln Castle.Charles White
1186 said, that under the contradictory testimony the House had heard
1186Mr. Ellice
 said, he knew not for what purpose the prisoner could be called to the bar, unless there was a feeling in the hon. member's mind, that he would make such an apology as could be received in mitigation of punishment. If he was disposed to make an apology for these words, it would place his case in a different situation from that in which it at present stood.Mr. Bathurst
 said, that having left the House for the purpose of writing a letter, he accidentally met the prisoner in the lobby—and, the offensive expressions having been positively stated to have been used by him, and by him as positively denied, he asked, whether it was possible there could be any misapprehension in his mind as to what occurred? The prisoner stated distinctly, "As far as my recollection goes, I did not use those expressions. I was taking a debate, on a very interesting occasion, and being interrupted, I might have used a hasty expression—but I know I left the gallery, fully determined to submit to the authority of the House." He asked the stranger "was he disposed to make an apology to the House for using even a hasty expression to the messenger?" The prisoner said "Yes;—that he would make any fair apology that might be required of him." Therefore it was that he proposed to call the prisoner to the bar, in order that he might offer an apology.Mr. Ellice
1187 said, the ground on which he made his motion was not so much on account of the original offence, which might have arisen from the heat of the moment, as with reference to what had afterwards occurred. If the prisoner had thrown himself on the mercy of the House and asked pardon, perhaps the matter
1187Mr. Wynn
 said the had recently seen the prisoner, who authorized him to state, and also requested another hon. member to declare, that he was not conscious of having used any offensive language whatsoever. His not having stated this at the bar, was wholly owing, to the embarrassment occasioned by his situation.Mr. Hutchinson
 said, that the stranger must have known he had no right to sit in the front of the gallery and there take notes. By using offensive language, and contumaciously remaining, after he was ordered to withdraw, he certainly deserved to be visited by the displeasure of the House.Mr. C. Harvey
 was of opinion, that the prisoner had acted contumaciously, and that the House, in vindication of its privileges, ought not to suffer such conduct to pass unpunished.Colonel Barry
 suggested, as the conduct of the prisoner could not be passed over unnoticed, whether a proceeding, short of committal, that of a reprimand at the bar, would not answer every useful purpose?Lord Castlereagh
 being again called in,Mr. Finnerty
 said—this House being informed that you wish to address something to them, have directed you to be placed at the bar.The Speaker
1188† said:—"I am not conscious of having offered the slightest offence, or the smallest disrespect to the House, by any word or deed of mine this evening. I declare with sincerity, that, if I have been betrayed into any hasty expression, of which I have no recollection, I am sorry for it.—At the time the circumstance occurred, my mind was engaged in the most intense application to the individual who was then addressing the House, and whose sentiments I was most anxious to take down correctly. At this conjuncture I was interrupted, and God knows what might have escaped me! But I am not conscious of having said any thing offensive. If I have done so, I am
1188†Mr. Finnerty
 said, the prisoner having expressed his contrition for any thing that might have inadvertently fallen from him in the warmth of the moment, and having declared that he meant no disrespect either to the House or to its officer, it would perhaps be sufficient, if he were called in and reprimanded. The noble lord then moved, "That Peter Finnerty be brought to the Bar, in order to his being reprimanded and discharged."Lord Castlereagh
 was accordingly brought to the Bar, where he received a Reprimand from Mr. Speaker, and was ordered to be discharged out of custody, paying his Fees. The Reprimand was as follows:Mr. Finnerty
1189 said, he was extremely sorry, after the time of the House had been so long occupied with discussions relative to breach of privilege, to be obliged to request their attention to another instance of the same kind. The breach of privilege which he was now about to notice was contained in an article which had appeared in "The New Times" newspaper, and had been adverted to in the course of a former debate. It was of such a nature that he thought it was quite impossible for the House to pass over it without being guilty of a dereliction of duty. The publication in question contained a series of remarks on the speech delivered a few evenings since, by an hon. member (sir J, Mackintosh), and were of
1189Mr. Wynn
1191 thought, that the breach of privilege was so evident as not to require the passing of any such resolution as the hon. gentleman had proposed. He could not conceive any grosser infraction of their privileges than to say of any hon. member that the statements which he made to the House were false and impudent assertions. How could the House expect to stand well in the esteem of the public, if the discussions which were carried on within it were to be published with such comments as those of which he complained? He agreed with the general feeling of the House in the advantages resulting from their publication; but if they were to be given with such comments as were now used, the shutting of
1191Mr. Wynn
 thought, that as some degree of warmth had been excited in the House by the discussion which had incidentally arisen in the course of the evening, and as the present was a subject on which they ought to decide with calmness and deliberation, he should suggest to the hon. gentleman the propriety of deferring it till to-morrow.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that though he did not entertain the slightest doubt on the question himself, he could not have any objection to withdraw his complaint that night, if he was allowed to bring it forward to-morrow.Mr. Wynn
1182 said, that when we accepted the submission of the Parguinotes, it was upon condition that we would protect them. We bad held it for
1182Lord John Russell
1165.—Did you take your notes so on that night?—I did: the usual practice is, with gentlemen who take notes, to write from them on small slips of paper, which, the moment they are finished, are
1165Mr. C. Harvey
1171 was sure that the House would appreciate the delicacy of those feelings which had induced the right hon. gentleman to absent himself on this occasion. He was also sure that if he had been present he would have been deeply impressed by the explanation that had been given. That right hon. gentleman had observed, that if any member could lay his hand upon his heart, and state that he did not believe the paragraph in question to have originated in motives of malignity, he would take no further notice of the business. He believed that many hon. members, after the evidence which they had heard, were prepared to express their belief that there had been no malignity. There was one point to which he wished for a moment to call their attention; it related to a smile, which had been described as pervading the Treasury bench. In the statement of the hon. gentleman himself (Mr. Hume) all reference
1171Mr. Protheroe
 also preferred the moderate punishment. To men of education and literary talents, a punishment of the extreme kind would be keenly felt.Mr. Protheroe
1177 hoped the hon. gentleman
1177Mr. Bennet
1175 expressed his conviction that there could hardly be but one sentiment upon the story told by the person in question, as to the origin of the gross mistake. Now, he thought that the House in general believed that story, no member having put any questions which evinced a doubt about it. Any person hearing the passage in question read, must have been disposed to have concluded that it was not only an unfounded misrepresentation, but a wilful one; that it was dictated by malignant and personal feelings. He was willing to believe the disclaimer which had met the charge of personal feeling; but with respect to the culpable negligence with which the reporter stood charged, the House was bound to take into its consideration what had been the usual course in these cases. The instance alluded to by the noble lord went strikingly to show that persons in the situation of reporters might be well excused for misrepresenting the proceedings of the House, and believing that it would not be visited by its interference. He would also remind the House of a speech by the noble member for York. In one part of a particular paper there was a very correct report of it; but in another part, a most inaccurate report of the same speech, copied from another print, was made the vehicle of those slanders, which were heaped upon himself, the humble individual who now addressed them. But instances of this kind were numerous. No longer ago than yesterday a speech of his hon. and learned friend (sir James Mackintosh) which the whole House had heard with admiration, was most grossly misrepresented in the paper to which he alluded; and that, not after a short time, not in a hurry, but after several days, and in conjunction with several other articles of the same indecent character. This speech was declared to be a most shameless and impudent attack on Ferdinand 7th. It was for hon. gentlemen to determine whether the reporters, partly by the necessities of their situation and partly by the lenity shown to them by the House on former occasions, had not been misled. He did not say this in any view of opposing the motion; but he thought it should make them cautious how they meted out punishment for an offence which they might in some degree be considered to have encouraged. Taking all
1175Mr. Brougham
1167 said, he did not rise for the purpose of opposing the motion, as far as the breach of privilege was concerned; but he would reserve his opinion upon any measure with which the hon. member might be disposed to follow it up; for, undoubtedly, he should bear in mind the evidence in extenuation which had been given. It was certain, that if the resolution now proposed were carried, the matter could not rest there. It was certain that if the House agreed to this resolution, they should go further; and perhaps before it was put, it would be best to consider, whether, under all the circumstances of extenuation which the House had heard, they would take a step which would bind them, as undoubtedly this severe censure would, to another. Upon the evidence which had been now received, he doubted the propriety of passing a re-
1167Mr. Brougham
1170 said, he had viewed the publication as one of a peculiarly aggravated nature: it contained an untrue account of what had been said, and was accompanied by a sort of scenic description which heightened its effect. He should vote for the resolution; but he thought the House would act wisely, in reserving to itself the consideration of the extent of punishment. But it was important that the grounds of their judgment, whatever it might be, should appear upon their Journals. The manner of the witness had made a general prepossession in his favour, and he could almost wish that the language of the resolution was less strong. The witness had exposed himself to severe reproach, but his conduct that day at the bar recommended him to their most favourable consideration. He had incurred much blame in adopting the representation of a stranger, and this was in itself a great offence. At the same time, the manner in which the misstatement was accounted for, satisfied him of its sincerity. With regard to the character of the newspaper in question, he thought it much improved upon the judgment which he was the day before inclined to form of it. It clearly appeared that the report had passed through no intermediate hands, but without being seen by any other person, had passed with the utmost rapidity
1170Mr. Abercromby
1190 said, that though the letter
1190Mr. Croker
.—Had you reason to think that Mr. Canning was then in his place?—I had; I had reason to believe that he was, from the frequent allusions which, in my opinion, were made to him during the whole of the hon. member's speech. I hope the House will now allow me to express my sincere, but manly contrition, for having in misrepresenting, however unintentionally, any thing that occurred, committed this error. I had no intention but to give the most faithful account in my power.—Is witness the only reporter on The Times?—No; there are 12 or 13 besides myself; they each take a short time in a debate; and here it may be necessary to inform the House, that in addition to the inconvenience to which I have before alluded, from want of proper accommodation, there often arises another, from the circumstance of one gentleman going on in the middle of a speech. Allusions are often made to what occurred before the individual gets into the gallery, and which, even when he hears, he cannot always understand. It often occurs, even among honourable members, that a misunderstanding takes place of what has occurred in debate; and of course the difficulty of hearing must be greater to those who write.—The witness was then ordered to withdraw.Mr. Mansfield
 thought that the Parguinotes had a strong claim on our protection.Mr. Maxwell
 said, there was a precedent in 1805, when Mr. Peter Stuart, of "The Oracle" newspaper, was, for a libel, committed to the custody of the serjeant at arms. He recommended that a similar course should be adopted on the present occasion. He thought that the matter urged in extenuation entitled the individual to all the lenity they could consistently afford.Mr. J. H. Smith
l.l.1179 said, it was natural there should be a strong feeling in favour of
l.l.1179Lord Compton
 observed, that in 1812 a gross misrepresentation had been made of a statement respecting a piece of very remarkable evidence before a committee, which had been submitted by the hon. member for Winchelsea. The evidence was of such a nature that it had been struck out of the minutes of the committee, but had been read in the House by the hon. member. It was represented in the newspaper that this evidence had been given by another hon. member; and although the hon. member for Sandwich declared that, living in the neighbourhood of a manufacturing district, his life might be endangered by its publication, the editor thought proper to publish it, and notwithstanding this double falsehood, had not been punished by the House. He thought this a much stronger case than the present, and as the author of that publication had been suffered to escape, it would not be fair to adopt strong measures in a case in which the error was confessed, and the cause of it explained.Lord Compton
1172 observed, that if the present motion had been to be decided merely upon what had passed on the preceding day, he should have willingly acquiesced in it; but after the explanations which had been given, he did not apprehend that any member, viewing the subject as qualified by those explanations, could avoid coming to a different conclusion. A clear statement, a manly apology, had been made. He could not exclude from his consideration the point of intention, even although the consequence might be, that the reasons of this proceeding would not appear upon their Journals. It
1172Mr. Brand
 said, he knew the young gentleman personally, and could assure the House that he was a person of respectable connexions, of good education, and of excellent behaviour. There could, therefore, be no doubt that he would prefer the punishment of being taken into the custody of the serjeant-at arms to the degradation of being committed to Newgate.Mr. W. Smith
.—Look at that paper, and say whether if is a correct copy of the manuscript which was given to the paper on that evening?—I have no doubt that it is a correct one, as far as printing goes.Mr. Speaker
.—Who wrote that?—I did.Mr. Speaker
1176 entirely concurred in the terms which had been applied to this libel, but from the statement made by the reporter at the bar, he was fully convinced the error (great as it was) was unintentional. Ea fully acquitted the individual of wilful intention, and feeling this, he could not but vote for the lighter punishment. The appearance of talent and edu-
1176Sir J. Mackintosh
11811180 professed himself desirous of not troubling the House long, though he owed it to himself, and the consistency of his own conduct, to state his reasons for adhering to his former opinions, notwithstanding the observations and explanations with which the noble lord had prefaced his motion. He would wave the question of policy which this cession involved, he would wave all consideration of the treatment which this people would receive in their removal, as he would hold it to be a libel on the character of the gallant officer under whose conduct it was to take place (whom he knew well to be a humane and honourable man), and a libel on the character of the country, to doubt for a moment that the utmost humanity and indulgence would not be shown them in the deplorable calamity which they were doomed to endure. Two questions arose which it was more particularly his object to discuss: 1. whether the Ottoman Porte had any right by treaty to the cession of Parga; and 2d, whether we had treated the inhabitants of that place, in ceding their territory to the Turks, in the same manner and with the same favour as the inhabitants of those places that were ceded to each other by treaties between civilized states? To the last of these questions he would first advert. What, then, was the
11811180Sir James Mackintosh
 said, he looked upon this attack, as he trusted that he should upon all others which might be preferred against him on similar authority, with the most perfect indifference. As far as related to himself, he hoped never to see his name joined with any question of privilege. If the House should think it requisite, for the defence of its own dignity, to call the printer to their bar, he hoped they would punish the offence with as much lenity as they possibly could. With respect to the truth of the charge which had been brought against him, he must say, that the individual, who had invented it, had betrayed the grosesst ignorance of his conduct. At the time he [the writer of the letter] had represented him as playing the part of a sycophant to Buonapartè, he was administering justice in the East Indies.Sir J. Mackintosh
 could not help thinking that there might be some doubt whether this letter was or was not a breach of privilege. If the charge were a libel at all, the latter part of it was most grossly libellous, not merely on his hon. friend, but also on the House, as it charged the House with receiving false and shameless not accusations with the loudest applause and approbation.Lord Milton
1193 said, that among the recommendations contained in the report of the Select Committee on the affairs of the Bank, there remained one to which the House had not yet adverted. It was a recommendation, however, which was by no means of minor importance. The committee recommended that parliament should adopt some permanent provision for defining and limiting the future advances made by the Bank to the public, and for bringing; those advances constantly under the superintendence of parliament. It was a bill to effect that object that he should, in conclusion, move for leave to bring in. There were three modes in which the purpose might be accomplished—either by a law, interdicting the Bank from making any advances at all—a prohibition that would be attended with great public
1193Mr. Peel
 said, it was not his opinion that any diminution of the circulating medium was necessary, nor did he believe that any such would take place.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he concurred in all the general principles and observations of the hon. bart. and was very anxious to see so desirable an object accomplished; but he submitted to the hon. bart. whether, in the present period of the session, it would be expedient to go into a committee, from which, according to his own admission, no practical result could be immediately obtained. If the matter were investigated early in the next session, as much good might be the result as if it were now gone into. He should, therefore, move the previous question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 had no objection to declare that, unless some very unforeseen occurrence took place, he would support such a motion, as he was as desirous as any one to get rid of the present inconveniences arising from the two currencies.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
castigatque auditque., without going into an inquiry respecting the question then, could not omit entering his protest against the principle which the House had assumed, of acting on questions of privilege in the double capacity of judge and accuser. He could not see upon what principle of law or justice the House could compel a man to appear at their bar, and be obliged to become his own accuser. The practice was, in his opinion, pregnant with dangerous consequences, and therefore one to which he would never give his support. It went upon the principle of Rhadamanthus, castigatque auditque.Sir F. Burdett
1197 did not sec in what character the hon. baronet appeared before the House on the present occasion. If it were as an advocate, he had acted, as was sometimes done elsewhere, in a manner calculated to do his client an injury, for the tendency of his observations was, to oppose the clemency with which the House might be disposed to treat the petitioner. The hon. baronet had protested against the power which the House had exercised in maintaining its privileges: upon this subject however the hon. baronet was not the most impartial person to decide. He had, on one occasion, tried in a court of law the question of the power of the House on this point; and after the result, he (lord C.) did not expect to hear this opinion again put forward. But the hon. baronet denied that the petitioner made any misrepresentation, or committed any breach of privilege. It should, however, be recollected, that he (sir F. Burdett)
1197Lord Castlereagh
1198 could not let the subject pass over without informing the House of the light in which he viewed the offence which had been committed. That offence had been extenuated considerably, in the estimation of the House, by the manner in which the individual had behaved himself. Indeed it would have been extraordinary if any person, gifted as those were and must be who gave the debates of that House to the public, had not been aware of the situation in which he was standing before the House, and of the absolute necessity which existed of his conducting himself, as the individual in question had conducted himself, with candour and humility. The House might give too much weight to such artful conduct, and therefore he thought it requisite to notice the subject. Much had also been said of the good character, the excellent education, and the respectable connexions of the individual to whom he had before alluded. This, in his opinion, did not form any extenuation of his offence. If an illiterate man, without any of those nicer feelings which mark the gentleman, should assail the character of an hon. member in scurrilous and indecent language, the person so assailed might treat the charges produced against him with contempt, and consider the reptile who fabricated them unworthy of his anger; but when similar charges were produced by persons on whose minds education had engrafted the feelings of the gentleman, together with all those nice susceptibilities of personal honour which belong to that character, circumstances were entirely changed, the offence assumed a deeper dye, and, when punished ought to be punished with greater severity. He would not moot the question which was then before the House. He confessed that he fell in
1198Mr. Courtenay
 said, that a strong feeling existed in his mind, that nothing like malignity had actuated the gentleman who had made the report of which complaint had been made.Mr. Hutchinison
"John Payne Collier;—You having confessed yourself to be the author of a paragraph, which this House resolved to be a scandalous misrepresentation of the debates and proceedings of this House, a calumnious libel on the character of one of its members, and an aggravated breach of its privileges, you were, for the said offence, committed to the custody of the Serjeant at arms attending this House. Grave and serious as this offence is, the manner in which you conducted yourself whilst under examination at the bar, and the explanation you then offered, led this House to the conviction that your misconduct was not intentional, and induced them consequently to treat you with a lenity, which, under no other circumstances, could such an offence have either suggested or justified. Your petition of this day has been received, and fully considered, and the terms in which it is conceived, and the sorrow and regret expressed in it, coupled with your conduct at the bar, to which I have before adverted, induce this House, in the further extension of mercy, now to order that you be reprimanded and discharged. Let not, however, that lenity be misunderstood; let it not be forgotten, that it is alone from the indulgence of this House that there is room for the commission of any such offence; and that the abuse of such indulgence aggravates the offence. Let this be a public warning, that the repetition of this offence, after the notice that has been now taken of it, cannot but be considered as wilful; and by whomever it may be committed, it will assuredly be visted with the utmost rigour and the severest punishment. Having now, in obedience to the commands of this House, thus reprimanded you, I have further to acquaint you, that, you are discharged, upon the payment of your fees." was then brought to the bar, where he received a Reprimand from Mr. Speaker, and was ordered to be discharged out of custody, paying his fees. The reprimand was as followeth, viz.
"John Payne Collier;—You having confessed yourself to be the author of a paragraph, which this House resolved to be a scandalous misrepresentation of the debates and proceedings of this House, a calumnious libel on the character of one of its members, and an aggravated breach of its privileges, you were, for the said offence, committed to the custody of the Serjeant at arms attending this House. Grave and serious as this offence is, the manner in which you conducted yourself whilst under examination at the bar, and the explanation you then offered, led this House to the conviction that your misconduct was not intentional, and induced them consequently to treat you with a lenity, which, under no other circumstances, could such an offence have either suggested or justified. Your petition of this day has been received, and fully considered, and the terms in which it is conceived, and the sorrow and regret expressed in it, coupled with your conduct at the bar, to which I have before adverted, induce this House, in the further extension of mercy, now to order that you be reprimanded and discharged. Let not, however, that lenity be misunderstood; let it not be forgotten, that it is alone from the indulgence of this House that there is room for the commission of any such offence; and that the abuse of such indulgence aggravates the offence. Let this be a public warning, that the repetition of this offence, after the notice that has been now taken of it, cannot but be considered as wilful; and by whomever it may be committed, it will assuredly be visted with the utmost rigour and the severest punishment. Having now, in obedience to the commands of this House, thus reprimanded you, I have further to acquaint you, that, you are discharged, upon the payment of your fees."Mr. Collier
 did not object to the introduction of the bill, but as he was not aware of the provisions it might contain, he must reserve his opinion till the measure should be before the House.Lord Castlereagh
, in moving that the report of this bill be brought up, said, he was constrained to admit, that although the statute law of Scotland might be abrogated by contrary custom, this principle could not apply to acts of parliament passed since the union and extending to Scotland. If the present measure were an improper one, he should be the last person to regret that it was checked in its progress; but he was convinced that it would be attended with great benefit.Mr. Boswell
lex terrœ1203 said, the objection of the hon. and learned gentleman appeared to be two-fold: first, that no doubts had arisen with respect to the application of desuetude to statutes of the united kingdom, and secondly, that the principle of liability to desuetude in Scotland had attached to the old laws at the period of their enactment, and could not therefore apply to acts passed by the united legislature. With respect to the first head of objection he might observe, that sufficient time had not perhaps elapsed since the union, for laws subsequently made to fall into desuetude, and, therefore no occasion had offered itself to the Scottish courts for the expression of doubts on the subject. But the question was, whether, when in course of time, statutes of the united parliament fell into disuse in Scotland, they would not also lose their validity according to the interpretation of the term desuetude in the Scottish law? The hon. and learned gentleman, it seemed, thought they would not, because the principle of liability to desuetude attached, in his opinion, to the law in its origin. He (Mr. T.) concurred with him in thinking, that if the principle did attach itself to the law at the period of legislation, it could not apply to one made by the united parliament, which certainly did not recognize such a principle. But he doubted whether desuetude did not rather attach to the law in its administration in Scotland, as part of the common law inherent as it were in the soil of that country, until eradicated by the legislature. It would be recollected, that by the articles of union all the laws and customs of Scotland were preserved to her in full integrity; and the courts of session, justiciary, and other courts, were to retain all the powers, jurisdictions and authorities, which they had previously possessed and exercised. As therefore, prior to the Union, they had a power of declaring laws to have fallen into desuetude, so they might still
lex terrœ1203Mr. Tennyson
1194 thought the Bank ought not to be in any way shackled in the management of their own affairs. Great inconveniencies, in the diminution of the circulating medium, might result from
1194Mr. Ricardo
1202 admitted, that the laws of Scotland might fall into desuetude; but he could not go along with the bill. If the hon. gentleman was able to show that doubts could arise on the subject, the legislature would interfere by a declaratory law; but as no man could predicate that doubt was likely to arise, there was no ground for interference. It was certain, that no writer had given it as his opinion,
1202Mr. J. P. Grant
1199 expressed his astonishment at the conduct of the hon. baronet. Had he been present, either when the speech was made, which had been unfortunately misrepresented, or when he (Mr. Hume) gave an explanation of what that speech actually contained, he would not have uttered the observations which he had done. Indeed, as it was, he was quite astonished how the hon. baronet could express any doubts of the truth of his representations. He was extremely sorry to hear the hon. baronet throw out such doubts, because he would venture to say that there was not a single individual in the House who heard him that was not satisfied that he had never uttered any thing like the calumny which had been imputed to him. He had stated on a former occasion his conviction, that the editor of The Times had no knowledge of the incorrect nature of the paragraph which had been inserted in the paper, and he had only to appeal to the candid and manly manner in which
1199Mr. Hume
 congratulated the House on its being now proposed to do what, if it had been done long ago, would have averted the calamity of the late war.Mr. M. A. Taylor
 would have no objection to the postponement of the committee, if ministers would give a distinct pledge to agree to a committee; and if such a pledge was given, he should recommend his hon. friend to withdraw his motion, and give notice for a motion to appoint such a committee very early in the next session.Mr. Grenfell
 said, that the purport of the hon. baronet's remarks was, that the report in question was not a misrepresentation of what the hon. member for Aberdeen had said; if that hon. gentleman had been in the House at the time when those remarks were made, he was quite certain that he (Mr. Hume) would not have hesitated to rise and contradict the insinuations which had been thrown out against him in his absence. If his right hon. friend had not been fully convinced that the whole of the paragraph complained of was a most gross misrepresentation, he would not have taken any notice of it in the House, but would have terminated the business by another and a different issue. [Loud cries of Order].Mr. Huskisson
 appeared at the bar with the report of the committee on the Camelford election. The report sat forth, that John Stewart, esq. and Lewis Allsop, esq. the sitting members, were not duly elected; that the election was void; and that the petition was not frivolous or vexatious. He also informed the House, that the committee had resolved,Mr. Gore Langton
1196 rose to present a petition from the gentleman who was yesterday committed to the custody of the serjeant at arms for a breach of privilege. He did not mean to deny that a great breach of privilege had been committed; but he was one of those who did not think it intentional. He had said last night, that from his knowledge he could state, that the individual in custody was highly respectable from connexions, character, and education. From what he had since seen of him, he was the more strongly impressed with this belief. The petitioner did not deny his being guilty of a breach of privilege, but he respectfully asserted, that he had no intention of offending the House or any hon. member of
1196Mr. W. Smith
1201 observed, that in bringing forward the motion of which he had given notice, he found himself fortified by the contents of several petitions which had been presented. The prayer of those petitions was for some alteration in the marriage service, as it respected a particular class of individuals. The grievance complained of was described in as brief terms as possible in the petitions themselves, which stated that the marriage service, as prescribed by law, was, in some of its parts, inconsistent with the principles of their religious belief. Prior to the act of the 26th Geo. 2nd marriage was considered in this country merely as a civil contract. To the ceremonial appointed by that act the dissenters generally entertained some objection; but what was complained of by his clients on this occasion was, the various expressions relative to the doctrine of the Trinity which occurred in it. By a recent statute they had been relieved from the penalties and disabilities imposed by laws which had become almost obsolete, but it was still unpleasant to their consciences that this doctrine should be introduced in a manner that implied a recognition of it on their part. As this introduction of it was perfectly useless, the petitioners hoped that in their case it might be dispensed with. Before the act of Geo. 2nd, marriage was held to be essentially a civil contract. For this proposition he had the authority of Mr. Justice Blackstone. It was not then requisite to its validity, that it should be connected with a religious ceremony. From the operation of that act, however, Jews and Quakers were exempted; and he believed that the petitions which they addressed at the time of its passing, had led to their exemption. The petitioners did not complain of the general tenour of the marriage service, but of a distinct part of it, the omission of which, in certain cases, was the object of the measure it was his intention to propose. If it were important that the marriage contract should be sanctioned by a religious ceremony, it ought to be congenial to the religious principles conscientiously entertained by the parties. He knew that many persons regarded marriage as the most solemn engagement which could be contracted, and that it was highly advantageous that it should be clothed with the sanctions of religion. In taking oaths, the religious creed of the
1201Mr. W. Smith
 acquiesced in the propriety of allowing the bill to be brought in. He could not help feeling some apprehension lest the general terms in which his hon. friend had spoken of marriage as a civil contract might be misunderstood. There could be he doubt that, so far as evidence was concerned, it might be so denominated, but the institution was itself of divine ordinance.Mr. Wilberforce
 then consented to withdraw his motion, as it was nearly the same thing, and equally secured the object of his present motion.Sir H. Parnell
1195d.s.l.l.d.s.l.d.l.s.d rose to pro pose a measure for assimilating the currency of Ireland to the currency of England, and for better regulating the exchanges between the two countries. There were two things principally to be attended to. 1st. The coin which was legally current in Ireland: 2nd. The money of account. The gold and silver coin of England were also the legal coin of Ireland, and current there for the same real value, but for a different nominal va arising from the copper coin of Ireland being 1/11th part less in value than the copper coin of England, and to the Irish money of account being taken from this copper coin 121195d.s.l.l.d.s.l.d.l.s.dSir H. Parnell
 thought the measure unnecessary. It was not usual in legislation to provide for the removal of doubts that might possibly arise. He apprehended it-would be an anomaly to say, when the united parliament had passed an act intended to apply to all the kingdom, that it should be binding on this side of the Tweed, and not on the other. The preferable mode of proceeding, would be, to postpone the measure till a doubt should arise on the subject, when a declaratory act might be necessary.Mr. Scarlett
1208 could not allow the motion to be disposed of without making a few observations. Was it not a grievous reflection, that when ministers proposed to the House of Commons a tax like the income tax, which was to have its effects on the pockets of hon. members themselves—a tax, by the former repeal of which parliament relieved itself, and not the nation—was it not shameful that the House of Commons, when such a tax was again proposed, rejected it with indignation; and yet, when other taxes, operating on the poor and defenceless classes of the community, were proposed, carried them by acclamation, and nothing was heard of but the triumphant majority of ministers on the subject!—The language of the noble lord opposite when he took off the war malt duty was, that as parliament had relieved itself from the property tax, it was the duty of ministers to relieve the country by taking off the malt tax. If, therefore, it was absolutely necessary that fresh burthens should be imposed on the country, why did not ministers propose their favourite income tax?—Why, but because they were afraid of the House of Commons?—Why did they, in lieu of the income tax, select the taxes which, of all others, were calculated to operate most severely on the poor? Would ministers have dared to do this; or, if they had done it, would it have been endured by the
1208The Marquis of Tavistock
1209 denied that the proposed taxes would fall exclusively on the lower classes. They would fall on the whole community. The fact was, they would produce very little pressure on the lower classes. The tax on malt would not have the effect of raising
1209The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 objected to the whole measure—to the principle—and not to any particular tax. Ministers had, on various occasions, exhibited their indisposition to retrenchment, until forced by the House; and he would vote for the amendment, as another means of producing so desirable an effect.Mr. Price
 not only objected to the bill because he had a total want of confidence in the present administration, and was persuaded that any money granted to them would be improvidently expended, but because the country could not bear additional taxation.Lord Ebrington
1211, of Norfolk, argued, that the oppression upon the landed interest by the new malt tax, would be severely felt. It was the duty of every man to oppose this attempt to arm ministers with new powers of collecting money. He was an old member of parliament, and well knew the profligate mode in which the public money was squandered. He would go the full length of asserting, that this was a corrupt House, from which no good could
1211Mr. Coke
1213l.1212 said, it was admitted by almost every gentleman, that we had not a revenue more than sufficient to meet the expenditure of the country; this circumstance, added to the insufficiency of the consolidated fund to meet the charges upon it, afforded no very flattering prospect of our finances. If, however, we looked back to the history of the last century, we should find that this was not
1213l.1212Mr. Lamb
l.l.,l. said, he had given a conscientious vote for 3,000,000l.l.,l.Mr. Wilson
d.d.d.d. said, it would be found, on inquiry, that the greater part, if not all the malt purchased at what were called the high prices, had been sold to the brewers, and that the stock on hand had been purchased at a much cheaper rate. This would diminish the great apprehension entertained from the proposed additional tax; and, under such circumstances, he felt that he could not in justice to the public abandon it. As to the periods at which this tax was to be paid, he intended to propose, that the first payment be made on the 10th of November, at the rate of 2d.d.d.d.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 felt it his duty to enter his most solemn protest against the present tax.Mr. Evans
 assured the House, that when he informed them that he intended to say only a few words, he intended to adhere strictly to his promise. The words he had to utter were, his downright abhorrence of the tax now proposed.Mr. Wilson
1222 spoke in favour of the tax. The question now to be decided was, whether the growth of wool in this country ought not, as much as possible, to be encouraged? and whether foreign importations ought not to be discouraged? Some years back the importation of foreign wool into this country was but 3,000,000 lb.; it gradually increased to 7,000,0001b., from thence to 24,000,000 lb.; and now by the last returns it amounted to 14,000,0001b. The growth of British wool was of course proportionably decreased, and he hoped that the protecting duty now proposed
1222Mr. Western
 thought this the most detrimental tax that could be imposed since foreign wools must form a mixture in every manufacture of cloths.Mr. S. Worthy
 spoke in favour of the tax. The immense importations of corn proved most injurious to the growers of corn; and the same observation was applicable to wool.Mr. Burrell
 said, that the measure would not only prove most hostile to the manufacturing interest, but would also prove, in its ultimate consequence, to be no less detrimental to the agricultural interests of the country.Mr. Philips
 had great doubts whether the new projects of the chancellor of the exchequer would produce an effective revenue. He admitted that it was very desirable to have a sinking fund; but as far as it had gone, its effect had been rather to induce ministers to increase than, diminish the expenditure. The malt-tax was peculiarly impolitic, because it encouraged the consumption of spirits, which promoted the growth of the worst vices. Government were laying on new taxes in direct contradiction to the promises they had held out of augmenting revenue and growing prosperity.Lord A. Hamilton
1214|| said, that the real question was this; was it expedient that, in the present crisis, there should be a sinking fund of five millions? There were two ways of considering the principle of this sinking fund, one way was, that it should be made to provide a surplus above the expenditure, to be ready to meet the emergencies of any future war.
1214||Lord John Russell
 insisted that the tax on malt would affect the poor and not the rich. The exciseman was excluded by law from coming into private premises; and all who were in the habit of brewing for themselves, would procure the malt they might require, before the imposition of the proposed duty on the stock in hand. But, although the immediate price of beer brewed by the public brewer might not be increased by the duty, would it not, at all events, retard the diminution of the present price? The price of beer must always depend on the price of the raw material. If the right hon. gentleman laid a duty on the stock in hand of the raw material, would he not retard the cheapening of the manufactured article? The right hon. gentleman might lay duties, but was he quite sure he could collect them?Mr. C. Calvert
12161215 could not agree with the hon. gentleman (Mr. Lamb) that it was desirable to follow the precedent of 1784, at the conclusion of the American war, and to re-establish what he called a sinking fund. It appeared to him that that was the very period to which those who objected to the sinking fund would direct their attention in support of their arguments. What had become of that sinking fund? Had it realized the expectations which had been held out? Were we now less in debt in consequence of its establishment? No—the contrary was the fact; the sinking fund had been converted into facilities, which enabled the minister to contract new debt. It was true we had
12161215Mr. Ricardo
s.lb.;s.1221d.,s.d.s.d.d.d. explained. He said, that he hoped the House and his hon. friend would understand that he was not contending that the taxing of necessaries was not injurious to labourers, but that it was no more injurious to them than any other mode of taxation. In fact, all taxation had a tendency to injure the labouring classes, because it either diminished the fund employed in the maintenance of labour, or checked its accumulation. In the argument which he had used, he had supposed that it was necessary to raise a certain sum by taxes, and then the question was whether by taxing necessaries, the burthen would be particularly borne by the labouring classes. He thought not—he was of opinion that they would ultimately fall on the employers of labour, and would be only prejudicial to the labourers in the same way as most other taxes would be, inasmuch as they would diminish the fund employed in the support of labour.s.lb.;s.1221d.,s.d.s.d.d.d.Mr. Ricardo
 approved of this tax, as a protecting duty to the agriculturists.Mr. Sumner
l.l.l. compared the present conundrum of the right hon. gentleman on the subject of the malt duty not affecting the public, to his conundrum some years ago, that a pound and a shilling were equivalent to a guinea. On second thoughts, the right hon. gentleman might perhaps discover, that if taxation prevented the price of any article from falling, the difference between the price maintained, and the price to which it would have fallen, was so much loss to the public. The tea tax would also be felt severely by the poor, with whom tea had almost become one of the necessaries of life. The gross revenue at present derived from tea was 3,300,000l.l.l.Mr. Bennet
l.l.1217 said, that it had been argued by a noble lord, that if we had not the taxes now proposed, we must have the property tax; that we must have taxes on the poor, or taxes on the rich; but there was another alternative, what would he think of having no taxes
l.l.1217Mr. Brougham
 regarded this tax as most unseasonable, impolitic, and injurious. It would injure the manufacturers without benefitting agriculture.Lord Lascelles
1210 said, he should vote for
1210Mr. Grenfell
12241223¶ said, that the measure went to violate, in the most direct manner, that policy which the wisest statesmen amongst our forefathers had advised and practised in the most enlightened periods of our history. All that he had heard in support of it might be summed up in a few words, namely, that we were in want of revenue, and that this tax would supply it—that it was necessary to give encouragement to our agriculture, and that this tax would increase the value of our homebred wool.— Now it appeared to him, that if the coun-
12241223¶Mr. R. Hart Davis
 repeated his protest against additional taxes, opposed as they were by the general sense of the nation. During four years of peace, no efficient attempt had been made to reduce the expenditure. He would not vote for a single new tax, until the minister had tried the experiment of retrenchment.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 supported the tax; but if hon. gentlemen on the other side would vote for a modified property tax, he would consent to abandon not only the malt tax, but many others.Lord Compton
 thought that it was impossible to manufacture our woollen cloths without a certain portion of foreign wool, and that this additional tax would have a most injurious effect.Mr. Dickinson
 entered into a calculation to show, that so large a proportion of this manufacture was consumed at home, that any effect produced by the proposed tax on the foreign market would not be felt. The rate of tax, too was so small that it could not be expected to affect the manufactures. Besides, our exports were principally of the coarse and home-grown wool, which was not touched by this tax.Mr. Huskisson
 defended the principle of the duty, and entered into several calculations, to show that the chancellor of the exchequer was correct in the estimate he had made.Mr. Huskisson
1220l. objected to this tax, that it was imposed on the only remaining luxury, if indeed it was not a necessary, of the poorer classes of this country. He then, adverting to the argument which had fallen from one of the highest authority on questions of political economy in this kingdom (Mr. Ricardo), namely, that a tax upon the necessaries of life did not fall heaviest on the poor; observed, that although he might be disposed to admit the truth of that principle, yet in this case, as being upon an article, the very last, as it might be said, before those necessaries, the duty did fall heaviest upon that class. How far such a tax might drive them to the use of spirits he should not now inquire, but it was a subject well worthy of consideration. The chancellor of the exchequer was on the horns of a dilemma—either he wished to raise a tax of at least 1,900,0001220l.Mr. Lyttelton
 remarked upon the absurdity of laying a tax on the manufacturing interests at this crisis, when the poor-rates were enormously increased. He maintained that it was not a gradual increase of duty, and entreated the House to give to the measure a more deliberate consideration.Mr. Lyttelton
 remonstrated against the duty on malt, which was a tax on the poverty, and not on the wealth of the country. It was a tax affecting the best interests of the country, as must ever be the case when the agricultural interest was affected. The farmers were already borne down by the competition of foreign growers, and other circumstances.Mr. Gooch
l. said, that there was not one of the taxes in which the House ought to concur. At the agriculture and manufactures, at the industry and physical strength of the nation, these new taxes were levelled. Perhaps the higher orders were not in a situation to contribute more; but the new taxes were calculated to press hard upon the poor, and upon the poor only. It would be a much more effectual sinking fund to leave the 3,000,000l.Lord Milton
 said, the question they had now to decide was, whether the country should any longer have that great export trade which constituted so large a portion of its wealth, which vivified its laws, which gave employment to its ships, and energy to its subjects. This was a case which had excited the greatest agitation throughout the country. He held in his hand 20 petitions, and his hon. friend had more, which, though he could not lay them on the table consistently with the forms of the House, he thought it his duty to mention, to show the feeling which prevailed on the subject. Of all the new duties, there was none so impolitic as the new tax upon the staple of England. To such an extent had the chancellor of the exchequer carried this system of taxation, that he seemed to have ascertained precisely what was the minimum of vital air upon which the commerce of the country could exist; but it would be discovered too late that the right hon. gentleman had over-reached himself, and that, instead of increasing the revenue, he had destroyed the trade of the country. He earnestly recommended him to withdraw this most impolitic measure.Lord Milton
1235hostis and malefidis12341233 said, it was quite unnecessary for him to argue, that it was just and proper to preserve a strict neutrality between a country and its colonies, when that country was bound to us in the ties of amity, by existing treaties. When he said a strict neutrality, he meant a neutrality which consisted in a complete abstinence, not only from absolute warfare, but from the giving of any kind of assistance to either one side or the other. The very meaning of the word neutrality implied, that they were to withhold succour from both parties. This was the doctrine laid down by all the authorities on the subject; and he particularly referred to a very eminent writer, Vattel, who had stated his opinion on this point. He said, "In order to view this question properly, one must distinguish what a nation ought to do, if it pretended to be perfectly neutral whilst a war is carrying on between an ally and some other state. Whilst a nation choose to remain in that state, it ought, in every thing, to preserve the most exact neutrality. It ought in the first place, to give no succour, either of troops, or arms, or any thing else serviceable in carrying on war. I say, absolutely no succour." Grotius had expressed himself on the subject in a similar manner. It had in the course of the debate on this question, been insinuated, that it was quite fit this
1235hostis and malefidis12341233Sir W. Scott
1239123812371236 after paying some high compliments to the speaker who had preceded him, observed, that if it either had been or could be made out, that aid had been given to one of the belligerent parties exclusively, the arguments which the House had just heard would be perfectly unanswerable; but as no such case had been made out, he could not help observing that the right hon. and learned gentleman had not come to the conclusion which he had drawn, with his usual clearness and felicity. Me had quoted the opinion of Vattel, that it was the duty of a neutral state to prevent assistance being given by its members to either of two belligerent parties, and had passed encomiums upon that writer, which he did not expect to have heard from such a quarter. That writer, though gifted with great ingenuity, was not much distinguished for the solidity of his conclusions, and this circumstance might be accounted for by consideration of the circumstances under which he had written his book. Now, though he could not quote chapter and verse as the right hon. gentleman had done, he believed that this very writer, for whose opinions so much deference was demanded, had somewhere said, that this
1239123812371236Mr. Scarlett,
"tamen:"—"Sum maxime, at tu indignus qui faceres——"Si ego digna hâc contumeliâ12531252pretend to keep it!1251ne exeat regno.1250124912481247non potest per millere ut pars adversajcederato suo mililem in territorio suo conscribat, cum hoc perinde sit ac mittere auxilia.stipulated its neutrality by treatyJus Gentium.against1246Angli1245extra-national1244them,1243124212411240 said, that, could he have seen this subject in the same light with the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, he certainly should not have been apt to vote in support of the present bill, still less to stand publicly forth in its defence, and least of all to select this as the occasion of his presenting himself for the first time to the indulgent attention of the House. So far, indeed, he perfectly concurred in the view which the hon. gentleman and other gentlemen on the same side of the House had taken of the question,—that it was one of vital importance,—that it was one in which the honour and character of the country were most deeply committed,—but he believed they were committed in a different manner and on a different stake from that which those gentlemen had contemplated. It seemed, indeed, clear to him, that the greater part of the reasonings employed by the opponents of the bill involved the most radical inconsistencies;—that their arguments were at war with each other, and at war with the conclusion which they aimed at establishing."tamen:"—"Sum maxime, at tu indignus qui faceres——"Si ego digna hâc contumeliâ12531252pretend to keep it!1251ne exeat regno.1250124912481247non potest per millere ut pars adversajcederato suo mililem in territorio suo conscribat, cum hoc perinde sit ac mittere auxilia.stipulated its neutrality by treatyJus Gentium.against1246Angli1245extra-national1244them,1243124212411240Mr. Robert Grant
125712561255bellum plus quam civile,1254ab initio, then observed, that the argument founded on the injuries alleged to have been recently committed by the Spanish government, had the same fault with most of the arguments against the bill; it proved too much. If the treaty was void 125712561255bellum plus quam civile,1254ab initio,Mr. Grant
126012591258 contended, that the hon. gentleman who spoke last had not touched the main strength of the argument of the
126012591258Lord Nugent
1261 said, he had listened to his hon. friend who spoke last but one with very great admiration; an admiration, indeed, not accompanied with much surprise or wonder, because he was previously well acquainted with his hon. friend's eminent talents. If, however, he now differed with him, it was because it appeared to him that this bill was as little called for on any grounds of neutrality, as it was hostile to the ancient policy of this country. Much had been said as to assisting two nations; and Vattel had been referred to: the question was, whether a belligerent was not at liberty to enlist troops in the territory of a neutral? On referring to the chapter which had been cited in Bynkershoeck, he thought some confusion had occurred to his hon. friend who spoke last but one. The argument of that author was, "if a belligerent power be allowed to exercise commerce in a neutral country, why should the not hire troops also?" With respect to the treaty of 1814, he owned he must protest against that novel doctrine, that a treaty entered into by the Crown was to be obligatory on parliament. It was true, indeed, that the Crown had a right of entering in to such engagements; but were they, therefore, to be considered as binding on then conduct? He apprehended the object was, to give Spain an auxiliary force to carry on her operations against her colonies; but because such might be the object, was parliament bound to carry it into execution? He objected to this bill, first, because it was unnecessary; secondly, because it was unprecedented—for, in looking into history, he found no precedents for it: or rather, he should say, that he had found one case extremely similar to this, but it was one of resistance to an application from the court of Spain, to prevent our subjects from enlisting under foreign banners, against that power. He Could not but think, from the circumstance that no precedents were to be found for it, that the principle of the bill was not bottomed on the law of nations. So many instances, on the contrary, might be adduced of subjects of this country having entered into the services of belligerents, with whom we were at that time at peace, that it was unnecessary to quote them.
1261Mr. J. H. Smyth
 contended, that the measure was called for by the law of nations, nothing but an effectual prohibition against both parties could in the present case, secure a course of complete neutrality. From the very strong feelings in favour of the colonies here, a permission to enlist for both sides would be the exercise of the strongest partiality to Spain. Unless this measure passed, there was no penal or vindictatory part to the law empowering his majesty to prevent his subjects from enlisting with the South Americans. The relations of commerce did not depend on mutual friendship, but mutual interests. But even if the commercial interests of the country were endangered, by adopting the line of conduct which honour pointed out, could there be any hesitation in making the choice? But the treaties with Spain bound us, from the circumstances under which they were contracted, and their real spirit, not to afford any assistance to her American colonies. Great Britain had never yet been accused of a breach of national honour, and he should be sorry (notwithstanding the prejudice which he was conscious prevailed against her in these countries) that an occasion for it should now be afforded to Spain.Mr. Shepherd
127212711270126912681267malum prohibitum,126612651264brutum fulmen,"As ever bore freedom aloft on it's wave.""As rapid as deep, and as brilliant a tide,1263 rose and said:—Sir; I have ventured to intrude myself on your attention, partly because my hon. friend (Mr. R. Grant) has intimated, with some truth, that the arguments of the opponents of this bill are various and inconsistent with each other, and I have therefore thought that it was important to record distinctly the grounds of my dissent, which would not be adequately implied from a silent vote: partly also, not merely because I feel strongly on the question, although I admit that to be the fact, since that would have led me to apprehend that I should not do justice to that feeling; but because it seems to be an opinion current among the supporters of the bill, that whereas they perceive such a feeling strongly arrayed against it, they may assume that the amount of argument opposed to it is proportionally small., I consider this to be a very illogical inference. I am confident that on this occasion our instincts are not at variance with, but in furtherance of our reason, and that the present is one of a multitude of cases in which the maxim is verified, "nunquam aliud natura aliud sapientia dicit." I am conscious, Sir,
127212711270126912681267malum prohibitum,126612651264brutum fulmen,"As ever bore freedom aloft on it's wave.""As rapid as deep, and as brilliant a tide,1263Mr. Granville Vernon
1273 assured the House, that it was not his intention to trespass on its attention for more than a very few minutes. On the question of neutrality he should say nothing, after the ample discussion which it had undergone, and because he considered that the common law was sufficient to provide for it. The act of George 2nd was justifiable upon a principle of self-defence; but here no such ground could be alleged. The only question now was, whether we were bound by treaty to the adoption of this measure? Had Spain fulfilled her obligations arising out of it with regard to the commercial intercourse between the two countries? So far was this from being the fact, her prohibitory laws had been revived, and to that extent the treaty had been violated on her part. This was a consideration which had not been adverted to, he believed, by any preceding speaker. The allegations contained in the petitions upon this subject had not been controverted or denied. On other occasions it was usual to consult the feelings and opinions of commercial men. In fact, ministers had never contemplated any great job, without making an appeal to the merchants and citizens of London. He recollected a great meeting in Merchant-Tailors'-hall, followed by another in Grocers'-hall, on the subject of the Bank restriction. When the war broke out in Spain, it was thought necessary to have a dinner, in order to rouse a spirit favourable to its support. He believed the price of the tickets was not less than four guineas each. One of the toasts which were drunk on that occasion was, "Our brave associates in liberty and arms," alluding to the Spanish people. It was not just thus to work upon the feelings of the public at one moment, and to despise them at another. Thousands of individuals had freely poured out their, blood in the contest which followed those meetings and toasts; but he was sorry to say, that
1273Mr. Alderman Waithman
1283Et trepidæ matres pressêre ad pectora natos.Sulphureâ Naralbus aquâ, fontesque Velini;Audiît et Triviæ longè lacus, audiît amnis12821281de facto128012791278nominatim,casus fœderishoc ipso intuitu,1277de federatis alia est impectio.vexata quœstio1276quibus bellum instruatur et foveatur;à priori,12751274 said:—Reluctant as I always am to obtrude myself on the notice of the House, and infinitely as that reluctance is increased in the present instance, by the protracted discussion which this question has undergone; I nevertheless feel desirous of being permitted to state the reasons which have hitherto induced me to vote in support of this measure; and why it is, that neither subsequent reflexion, nor any of the arguments we have heard this night; nor yet the seducing and bewitching eloquence of an hon. and learned friend of mine on a former occasion, have in the slightest degree shaken the opinion I was led to form upon the first examination and consideration of this subject. I am desirous of explaining that opinion, because, agreeing as I do in many of the sentiments expressed by the hon. and learned gentleman who last addressed the House; concurring as I entirely do in many of the general positions laid down by him,— In ever the less decidedly think, that such are not the sentiments which ought to influence us on a question of this description; that such positions (true as they may be in general, and abstractedly), are not applicable to the present question, and consequently are not correct premises from which we can deduce any just and legitimate conclusion.—I am desirous also of explaining my opinion, because I am one of those who think it utterly impossible not to feel a deep and anxious interest in the great and momentous transactions which are now developing themselves on the other side of the Atlantic. It is impossible, indeed, not to view with interest and emotion so large a portion of the other hemisphere,—so long depressed by an unwise, impolitic, and tyrannical system of government,—emerging as it
1283Et trepidæ matres pressêre ad pectora natos.Sulphureâ Naralbus aquâ, fontesque Velini;Audiît et Triviæ longè lacus, audiît amnis12821281de facto128012791278nominatim,casus fœderishoc ipso intuitu,1277de federatis alia est impectio.vexata quœstio1276quibus bellum instruatur et foveatur;à priori,12751274Dr. Phillimore
 said, that much stress had been laid upon the treaty of 1814; but what duty could it impose upon England? It could not be pretended, that his majesty in the exercise of his prerogative, could enter into any treaty which should oblige parliament to pass an act to effect its purposes. He expressed his firm conviction, that if this bill passed into a law, it would be not only prejudicial to our commercial interests, but to the national honour.Mr. Williams
 thought it unbecoming the character and dignity of Great Britain, to state to another country, that because legal gentlemen took exceptions to certain parts of a treaty, formally and solemnly concluded, she was not bound to the observance of its stipulations.Mr. Long Wellesley
 entered his solemn protest against a measure marked by impolicy and injustice.Mr. Barnett
 did not rise to oppose the amendment, but he wished to remark upon the curious manner in which this bill was worded. The learned lawyer who had framed the measure, whoever he might be, seemed to have had his head completely filled with military phrases, and the individual who now filled the civic chair, was raised to the high and distinguished rank of "chief civil commander." To the lord mayor application was to be made to put the provisions of this bill into execution. He should really advise hon. gentlemen not to limit it to the mayor alone of any town, but to extend it to all the subordinate officers, even to the village schoolmaster, who would be found to be upon this, as upon all other occasions, a most active and useful personage: nay, the sextons and their companions might be applied to in cases of great emergency. The gallant officer behind him (sir R. Wilson) had prophesied the influence this measure would have on foreign countries: he would prophesy its influence nearer home; and he should have thought his majesty's legal advisers, after the lessons they had already received—after the repeated proofs they had seen of the wisdom and the undaunted spirit of a British jury,—would have been wise enough not to press such a measure as this. The efforts of government had already been defeated by the firmness and independent spirit of a few individuals at home. Thank God, it yet remained to be seen whether a British jury would assist the government in enforcing such a law as was now attempted to be forced upon the people.Mr. George Lamb
 felt confident that a British jury would not swerve from its duty. Englishmen placed in such an awful situation would recollect the sacred oath they had taken, and would not be influenced by any suggestions, either from within or from without the walls of parliament.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that the hon. gentleman had made a direct attack on the administration of justice. He had compared the Court of Exchequer to the Star Chamber. Now, surely, if the conduct of the learned judges in that court was criminal, the manly way of proceeding against them would be by impeachment. As to the case before the House, it was necessary to state that there was no revenue law more important than the 26th of the king. It went not to attack fraud when discovered, but to cut up the roots of fraud. When it was discovered that the petitioner's cargo did not correspond with his report, it was the duty of the excise to prosecute; and he had no doubt the delay had been occasioned by the circumstance of the petitioner having left the country, so that he could not be proceeded against. The irregularity in the report had been attributed to the coffee being brought in casks, and shifted into bags. If this was the fact, the board of excise observed that it would be mentioned in the log book, and called on him to produce it, but with this demand captain Bryan had not complied. The act gave the customs no authority to remit the penalty, except in the case of an accidental difference between the manifest and the cargo; but this had not been attempted to be made out. The Treasury consented to remit the penalty, in consideration of the circumstances of the case, and the expense the defendant had incurred. With respect to the number of prosecutions instituted within the last year, 760 were not to be deemed very numerous, considering the extent of the revenue to be collected, with the quantity of fraud and smuggling likely to be committed. Then, as to the number of counsel usually employed in exchequer prosecutions, it should be remembered, that the attorney and solicitor-general were sometimes unable to attend such prosecutions, and it was necessary to retain competent professional gentlemen to conduct them.The Solicitor General
 felt indebted to his hon. friend for bringing this subject before the House. It had been the policy of master-manufacturers and tradesmen, for some time back, to reduce the price of labour, and he was convinced that these combinations were injurious to the best interests of the community.Mr. Williams
1293 entirely concurred in the sentiments expressed by the hon. members who had preceded him; and hoped that some measure to remedy the
1293Lord Ebrington
 thought that corruption had not been proved in a sufficient degree to warrant the measure, and moved as an amendment that the bill be read a third time on that day six months.Mr. Holford
 took a review of the evidence, for the purpose of proving that bribery had been practised in the borough of Penryn, sufficient to justify the pending measure. With respect to the proposition of disfranchising the borough altogether, and of granting the right of election to other places, it was contrary to the principle on which parliament had generally acted.Sir C. Burrell
 declared himself the zealous friend of this measure; but he feared, from the advanced state of the session, that if the bill were sent to the Lords, it would be thrown out. He should therefore suggest, that the bill should be suffered to fall, and that a resolution should be submitted to the House, declaring the intention of the House to resume this measure at an early period of the next session. The bill was a temperate and gradual mode of reforming whatever was evil in the constitution of the House, and must contribute to remove many objections which the more violent advocates for reform were in the habit of throwing out against it.Mr. Abercromby
l. thought it extremely unjust, that a borough such as Penryn, where the electors were ready to sell themselves for 24l.Mr. Denison
 thought it would prove of great advantage, if the elective franchise were taken from this borough, and given either to one of the large manufacturing towns that were not represented, or to the great county of York. If the evidence before the House did not justify this bill, he could not imagine any case in which the House ought to interfere.Lord Ebrington
 adverted to the evidence, to show that there existed a general spirit of bribery. If the House did not pass this bill, he should indeed be much surprised.Mr. G. Lamb
 spoke in favour of the bill. It had been affirmed that the bribery proved against Penryn could be substantiated against every other borough in the kingdom; but this he denied, and defied any man to prove a single similar circumstance against the borough he represented.Mr. Williams
 was decidedly opposed to such a sweeping measure as this, when by the evidence it appeared, that only a few individuals had been guilty of corruption.Mr. C. Harvey
 recommended that the amendment should be withdrawn, and the bill itself postponed, and that some resolutions should be moved expressive of the opinion of the House.Mr. Wynn
 expressed his willingness to adopt the course proposed.Sir C. Burrell
1289s.l.d.s.d.s.l.s.;l.1288l.l.l.1287l.1286 presented a petition from captain Samuel Bryan, of the ship Margaret, who complained that he had been subjected to
1289s.l.d.s.d.s.l.s.;l.1288l.l.l.1287l.1286Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, that the system on which the customs and excise acted, of referring all causes to the solicitors who were interested in prosecutions, was bad. The country was obliged to the hon. gentleman for bringing the subject before the House.Mr. Ellice
 stated, that he had great pleasure in offering his entire concurrence in, and cordial assistance to the measure of which the hon. member had given notice for the repeal of the Combination acts, a subject to which it had been his intention to call the attention of the House. He had been obliged, in consequence of the distresses of his constituents, to appeal to the feelings of the House, in favour of a measure they had suggested for their own relief, and which had been opposed, on the general principle, that it would interfere with free labour; and his only answer to that opposition was, that, although he admitted that any regulation, of the price of labour was contrary to principles which all acknowledged, it had been rendered necessary by the repeated violation of those principles, which had produced the distressing effects from which the manufacturing classes were now suffering. He had the greatest pleasure, therefore, in offering his cordial support to a measure which would be the first step towards re-establishing the principle of free labour; and he would cordially and zealously join the hon. gentleman in his endeavours to remove a grievance, of which the operative manufacturer had so much reason to complain, from its partial and oppressive influence.Mr. Ellice
1291 rose to call the attention of the House to a petition of considerable importance. He believed much diversity of opinion existed, as to the facts stated in it; and many persons conceived that the present was not a proper period to entertain the subject but, the very reasons which led those persons to suppose the present an improper time to investigate the cause of complaint, were those which induced him to think that it ought now to be looked
1291Mr. Hume
 said, that when the character and construction of the excise laws were duly examined, when it was considered that the whole system was in consistent with the principle of our free constitution, the House was bound to inquire into any abuse in a system which was obviously so very liable to abuse. He was an advocate for inquiry, thinking that the statements of the hon. mover had by no means been answered by the learned gentleman.Mr. N. Calvert
 maintained that the hon. mover had not cast any reflections upon the character of the chief baron of the exchequer. For the character of the judge alluded to, he felt the most profound respect, but he must say, that according to his conviction, the opinion of that very learned judge in the case under consideration, was not conformable to law, and had the bill of exceptions been pressed, he had little doubt that the opinion would have been set aside by the superior tribunal of a full court. Into the merits of the revenue code he would not now enter; but he must say that there was something so overwhelming in the weight and influence which the Crown possessed through the revenue laws in the court of exchequer, that the administration of justice there, was quite different from that which prevailed in the other courts. The whole system of the laws of excise and customs, was, in fact, of an odious character; and seeing from a bill passed yesterday, that the just right of a British subject to leave the country if he pleased, was to be subjected to all the restrictions imposed upon fraudulent trading or smuggled goods, he was the more anxious for the revision and amendment of that system. Upon this subject, then, he hoped and trusted that a rigid inquiry would be instituted next session.Mr. Denman
 having moved the third reading,Lord Castlereagh
13021301 said, he saw so many gentlemen around him much better qualified than himself to enter into the merits of the question, that he should be very brief in his remarks upon it. He must, however, contend, that the argument of the hon. and learned gentleman with respect to the exemption of charitable institutions committed to special visitors, was by no means conclusive; for he could see no reason why the will of the founders of such institutions should be violated; and where by such will individuals holding certain offices were appointed as special visitors, it appeared to him that their conduct should not be meddled with, unless special abuse were shown to have occurred. But how came it that the hon. and learned gentleman had not brought forward a distinct motion with respect to public charities, and the reports of the two committees of 1816 and 1818 regarding them, at an earlier period of the session? So much wit and eloquence had been displayed upon the subject of those
13021301Mr. Peel
 replied, that he understood the sarcasm, but as it did not touch him, he was ready to comply.Mr. Peel
130813071306130513041303 again read the names of the six impartial members, and of the seventeen who usually voted with the hon. and learned gentleman. It seemed that it was in the contemplation of the proposers of the committee, that the universities of England should come under its cognizance. It was therefore to be expected that some gentlemen would have been named upon it, connected by knowledge and interest, with those establishments. Three individuals had been selected who generally voted with ministers; and on them it seemed was to rest the burden of protecting the rights of the two universities of
130813071306130513041303Mr. Peel
—"I said, the master of the Charter-house school."Mr. Peel
133513341333 declared, that he would be the last man to comment on the tone and language of any hon. member who stood up to vindicate himself, unless where that tone and language assumed the character of conveying invective and sarcasm against another. It was on that ground he complained of the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman who had converted a defence of himself into an accusation of his right hon. friend. He knew, and could excuse, the feeling and temper likely to be excited on such an occasion; but there was in the language and sarcasm which the hon. and learned gentleman had used, in speaking of the course pursued by his right hon. friend, what
133513341333Mr. V. Fitzgerald
13371336 said, he was not at all surprised that his right hon. friend should have warmly felt and expressed his own sentiments on the conduct of the hon. and learned gentleman, as well as the sentiments of those respectable bodies of individuals, who came within the scope of the inquiry under the consideration of the House. Although the hon. and learned gentleman had made a very reasonable statement on the present occasion; although, after a more deliberate consideration, he had not imputed to charities generally corruption, or to government a disposition to skreen abuse, it was natural enough that his right hon. friend should not forget, that at no very distant period, the hon. and learned gentleman had loudly preferred such accusations. It now appeared that the report, of the com-
13371336Lord Castlereagh
1338 expressed his regret at being again compelled to offer himself to the attention of the House. Charges, he said, had been made against him by hon. members opposite, which, in their nature were somewhat inconsistent. It had been alleged, that he had prepared what was called a bill of indictment against the committee, having associated to himself in this invidious task, several other persons; but he could assure the hon. and learned gentleman, that whatever might be the nature of this bill of indictment, to himself (Mr. Peel) alone was it to be attributed. He did not imagine it was a fair ground of charge against him, that he had canvassed the proceedings of the committee in private with his friends. Gentlemen who pushed themselves forward in that House into public situations, such as chairmen of committees, must expect to have their conduct very freely and fully examined, provided no personal or improper motives were imputed to them. He could assure the hon. and learned gentleman that he would never shrink from animadverting on his public conduct whenever that conduct seemed to demand animadversion. The hon. and learned gentleman had complained that the charge was brought forward in the absence of the committee; but as he entered the House he perceived at least ten members of the committee present, and in any case he should consider it a new doctrine, if the members of that House were to be precluded from making any observation on the conduct of committees, unless the members of such committees were served with regular notice to attend. As to his not having made the charges before, there was no opportunity. On the 5th of April
1338Mr. Peel
1339 read the 45th statute, which declares that the statutes shall be kept secret, and to the observance of that, as
1339Mr. Peel
 stated, that Mr. Hinde, a fellow of Eton, had been examined at large.Mr. Peel
 opposed the amendment on the ground that the will of the founder, whether provident or not, should not be interfered with.Sir W. Scott
 complained of the clause of exemption, as founded on an unjust and aristocratical principle.Mr. Ellice
diatribe, as a member of the Education Committee, bore testimony to the accuracy of every part of his hon. and learned friend's statement. He defended the committee from the attack made upon them by the right hon. member—an attack which, although sobered and brought down to the meridian of the House, was very much like one that had been rendered public by other means, and which though it had not less acrimony, had more wit and vivacity. It was evidently a prepared diatribeMr. F. Douglas
 described the manner in which he had been nominated upon this committee, and denied that the majority of it was composed of the usual supporters of government. He had however from the beginning declared his intention not to attend a committee from which members of great learning and high character were excluded, and to which the aldermen who represented the city of London, as well as other persons belonged; persons who, however respectable, were not in his opinion the best calculated for the inquiry they had in hand.Mr. Holford
 said, that the value of the last observation of the hon. member might be appreciated, when he said that among the committee were sir J. Mackintosh, sir S. Romilly, Mr. J. H. Smyth, Mr. W. Lamb, and other gentlemen of learning, diligence, and talent.Mr. Brougham
1344 then proposed the striking out the clause exempting colleges, free schools, or other foundations having special visitors, from the operation of the bill. He took that opportunity of stating, that his opinion with respect to the abuses of charities for education was not altered. What he had stated originally was, that the bulk of the cases must have arisen more from negligence than from wilful and corrupt design. He had uniformly
1344Mr. Brougham
 said, every body who knew any thing of the question, knew that Mr. H. was not a fellow of Eton, but that of King's. He (Mr. P.) had better leave the Eton and Cambridge interests to be defended by those who were acquainted with the subject. He supposed his hon. friend (Mr. J. Smyth) the member for Cambridge, was not much indebted for his volunteering to protect his constituents.Mr. Brougham
 then proposed a clause, enabling trustees, with consent of the commissioners, to apply to the Court of Chancery, or any of the courts of equity, for the correction of certain deficiencies that might be found to exist in the powers granted to them under the charter.Mr. Brougham
 said, that the right hon. gentleman's charge did not merely state that the fellows had taken such an oath, but that they had pleaded their oath to the committee, who compelled them, notwithstanding, to make disclosures.Mr. Brougham
 called the attention of the right hon. member to his argument with respect to the oaths of secrecy administered in colleges.Mr. Brougham
133213311330132913281327132613251324132313221321132013191318alma mater13171316131513141313. Well then, the hon. member now expressed his surprise that the masters of Westminster and the Charterhouse schools had been examined. Did not the right hon. gentleman know this from the report of the committee in 1816? Had he not the evidence of his senses in that report, that those examinations had been entered into? He, in his turn, had a right to marvel—to lift up his hands and eyes in wonder at the conduct of the right hon. member. Was it not food for astonishment, to those who after could feel astonished at any thing, to perceive that the right hon. gentleman, notwithstanding the evidence then before him, should have waited until 1819 to remark on the manner in which the committee had overstepped the bounds of their instruction in 1816? The natural time to complain of the inquiries of 1816, was when the result of them was laid on the table, and discussed and animadverted on by others. The right hon. gentleman, it is true, was not then installed in his present academical situation, and he was only looking upwards to the height which he has since attained. But the iniquities which had escaped the penetration of expectant zeal, were again overlooked by the circumspection of the right hon. gen-
133213311330132913281327132613251324132313221321132013191318alma mater13171316131513141313Mr. Brougham
1312131113101309 said, that after the speech of the right hon. gentleman, the House, he was sure, would extend its indulgence to him. He was suddenly called upon to defend his individual character, and that of his colleagues, whose confidence he was proud to have enjoyed from the first day he sat as their chairman, to the last when he reported their proceedings. At a moment when almost the whole of that committee were absent, he was called upon to answer the premeditated and much-laboured harangue of the right hon. gentleman, surrounded by those who doubtless were well aware of the charge to be preferred. While he lamented the absence of the committee, he could not but laud the exemplary candour of those who were taking this opportunity of leaving the House. They hardly yielded in fairness to their right hon. leader. He had, with singular delicacy, selected a moment for his attack, when he thought himself secure of catching the accused unprepared, and having him convicted without a defence. They, content with having heard the charges, were departing quite satisfied of his (Mr. B.'s) inability to repel them. To repel all and each of them, however, he should instantly proceed; and in order to meet the peculiar fastidiousness of the right hon. gentleman on matters of form, and to satisfy his very nice sense of order, of which he had made so mighty a parade in his solemn lecture upon parliamentary procedure, he should begin with giving notice that he would, before he sat down, move to refer the Report of the Education Committee to a committee of the whole House. He felt his situation as almost unexampled. Without any thing like notice, any thing that could give him a suspicion that such a discussion could possibly arise; without reflexion, or preparation, or a
1312131113101309Mr. Brougham
 denied that he meant any thing sarcastic; it was necessary that he should be furnished with the names, if the question were made to depend upon the political propensities of the individual:; bearing them.Mr. Brougham
, while the names were repeating, requested that the right hon. gentleman would read them slowly, that he might be able to take them down.Mr. Brougham
1300delectus personœ1299cujus est dare ejus est disponerel.l.1298l.l.l.l.;1297 said, that though he should feel it to be his duty to oppose that part of the bill which exempted from the scrutiny of the commissioners those charities which had special visitors yet even if the bill passed with that exemption, it would come near to that measure which he had formerly proposed, and which had been altogether altered in the other House. The bill before the House approached to the nature of the bill which he had proposed, by increasing the number of boards into which the commissioners were to form themselves, and diminishing the number of commissioners in each board. There were now to be five boards, each consisting of two stipendiary commissioners. The boards, too, were enabled to call for papers and records by compulsory process, and there was he danger of its being resisted, as there was no limit to the fine which they, might im-
1300delectus personœ1299cujus est dare ejus est disponerel.l.1298l.l.l.l.;1297Mr. Brougham
1343, as a member of the committee, begged leave to say a few words. The right hon. gentleman had insinuated that party zeal animated him on that committee [No, no! from Mr. Peel]. He could say, on his honour, that he had never seen the spirit of party less pervade any committee than the one alluded to. The whole proceedings of that committee had been grossly misrepresented out of the House. He had read the most scandalous libels on the committee: he had seen questions stated to have been put which never were put; and persons stated to have been examined, who never were examined. His hon. and learned friend, the chairman, had been roundly stated as bringing forward cases, and putting questions which others had wholly done without any interference on his part. He could enumerate a number of the most gross misrepresentations, if he were not ashamed to take up the time of the House with them. His hon. and learned friend knowing his (Mr. Smith's) anxiety for the diffusion of the benefit of education, might think that he could be of use in the committee, and on that account might be induced to name him. From the same motive he might be induced to name other members. But this he was sure of, that those who were most in the habit of attending the committee generally voted on the other side of the House. He owned he was concerned, that the right hon. gentleman with his rising fame should have risked an attack on his hon. and learned friend. He knew of no man in the House who had done more towards the support of the cause of justice and humanity than his hon. and
1343Mr. John Smith
1342 was anxious to express his sentiments upon a question of so much importance, and one in which he, as representing his constituents, was so greatly interested. As a member of the Education Committee appointed in 1816, he felt an anxious desire to lend his aid to the investigation of the subject; and he could assure the House, with the utmost sincerity, notwithstanding the insinuations which had been thrown out by a right hon. member, that he had entered the committee with no prejudices on his mind, or political bias. It was a duty incumbent upon him to contradict such aspersions, in 1817 the committee did not sit, and in 1818, when the transaction alluded to took place, he did not attend the committee, as he then attended another committee, which he thought had a paramount claim on him. But if he had not had that excuse, he did not think he should have attended it; for though he admitted parliament had a right to inquire into the funds possessed by the university for the education of the poor, yet he doubted as to the expediency of their making use of that right at present. With respect to one university, at least, he was sure the more its affairs were inquired into, the more it would stand exculpated; but the House could not, with any advantage, enter into so wide a field of inquiry. Had he been on the committee, he should have expressed an opinion different from that of the majority in two cases. As soon as it was known that the funds bequeathed were not for the purpose of education, the
1342Mr. J. H. Smyth
 said, that he had acted as a member of the committee, and approved of all that was done in it. He had narrowly observed the conduct of the hon. and learned chairman, and had uniformly found it correct, polite, and proper.Mr. Sheldon
l.l.13411340 claimed the privilege that he had always exercised during the forty-three years which he had been a member of that House, of asserting his opinions with the utmost freedom and sincerity. He must say, that the right hon. gentleman had not made him feel less pain upon this occasion, than he should have felt, had he been himself personally concerned in it. There was nothing which appeared to him to have justified the right hon. gentleman in not giving the House previous intimation of his intention to bring forward a charge against the committee. What the right hon. gentleman had said in his last speech, confirmed the opinions which he (Mr. W.) had originally entertained, with respect to the character of Dr. Wood; and he made this observation with greater pleasure, because he had never heard the evidence of Dr. Wood before the present moment. As that gentleman had been one of his co-mates in earlier life at the university, he should take that opportunity of stating to the House, that he was an honest, respectable, independent man, deserving to be held up as an example of what integrity and perseverance could effect, to those who were entering upon life under many inconveniences. How the case of Pocklington school had escaped his notice he did not know, and should not pretend to explain; but considering the number of years during which he had represented the great and populous county of York, he could not help taking it as a matter of shame to himself; that he had not brought
l.l.13411340Mr. Wilberforce
 also observed, that the most convenient mode of proceeding would be, to read the bill a third time, and then hon. members would have an opportunity of speaking on the several clauses as they were brought up.The Speaker
 contended, that a power given to inquire into the abuse of a charity, which might be most inconsistent with the will of the founder, could not be construed into a contravention of that will.Mr. Scarlett
 saw no objection whatever to the motion. He should reserve any thing he had to say on the subject till the information moved for was before the House. He hoped the House would not infer, from his not entering on the subject, any neglect on the part of ministers, in not submitting any specific measure to the House founded on the reports of the commissioners.Lord Castlereagh
1348l. called the attention of the House to a bill which had passed this session, to amend the act of the 55th of the king, for extending trial by jury to civil cases in Scotland. In doing, this, he had no intention to arraign the promoters of the measure for the main part of it, as no man was more favourable than he was to the extension of trial by jury in civil cases to the part of the country with which he was connected; but, under this act so many new officers had been appointed, and with such large salaries, that they were more likely to be performed by deputies than principals. What gave him a claim to call upon the House on the subject of a bill recently passed, was the improper manner in which the measure had been hurried through the House. The act now consisted of 26 pages, one half of which had been filled up at midnight. His object was to address the Prince Regent, that the additional appointments under this act might not be filled up till a month after the opening of the next session, or before the commissioners on the courts of justice had made report on the jury court. In the original act, there were three chief clerks and two assistant clerks. Now, there were one new principal and three assistant clerks. To show how unnecessary this addition to the establishment was, he should mention a fact, that the clerks of the jury court had continued without interruption to practice in the court of session. An addition of 1,0001348l.Lord A. Hamilton
 contended, that the appointments under the new act were absolutely necessary, because there would be a great increase of business in the jury court, because it was no longer optional, but imperative on the parties, to bring all causes "on account of injuries to the person, whether real or verbal, as assault or battery, libel or defamation, or on account of any injury to moveables or lands, when the title is not in question," &c. into the jury court. There were originally three chief and two assistant clerks; there was now an additional chief and an additional assistant, so that there would be only, seven in all, as the appointments of two who now performed duties would be at an end. Neither was it imperative on the Crown to give the full amount of the salaries; it was only enacted that they should not exceed a certain amount. There were now 200 causes on the roll of the court. There were four terms, three regular sittings at Edinburgh, and two circuits. As the circuits were divided into three divisions, one chief and one assistant would be required on each division and the other chief clerk would be required at Edinburgh.The Solicitor General
l. condemned the manner in which the amendments referred to in the motion were introduced into the bill, only seven members being in the House at the time they were adopted. Such a course of proceeding he thought very unbecoming, especially as an addition of 3,500l.Mr. Boswell
1349 thought it would be a most inconvenient precedent to call upon the crown to arrest the execution of an act of the legislature, and that too within the very session in which that act was passed. The idea, indeed, of addressing the Crown to suspend the law upon anonymous authority, until a report should be received from a particular com-
1349Lord Castlereagh
 observed that, as the act alluded to was not to commence its operation until December, no inconvenience was likely to arise from the adoption of the motion. No such accumulation of business could indeed be calculated upon in the jury court within the interval between December and the period mentioned in the motion, as to call for the appointment of the officers alluded to. His noble friend was not disposed to press his motion, if the noble lord would give his word that the offices referred to should not be filled up until the commissioners should present their report with regard to the jury court.Mr. Abercromby
 said, that there was no disposition on the part of ministers hastily to fill up the officers alluded to.Lord Castlercagh
l.l.l. remarked upon the pro visions of the law alluded to, observing, that in addition to the clerks already attached to the jury court, two of whom had 600l.l.l.Mr. Brougham
 maintained, that although the late act provided that four assistant clerks should be appointed to the jury court, it was not meant that these should be additional clerks. As to the expediency of filling up the offices alluded to, the most becoming course would be to leave the decision of that point to the discretion of the Scotch judges.Lord Binning
1350 said, it appeared to him, that the gentlemen who supported
1350Mr. J. P. Grant
1351 was persuaded that the more the introduction of trial by jury in civil causes into Scotland was discussed, the more it would be considered an important era in the administration of justice in that country. Persons might differ as to the subordinate arrangements by which the system should be introduced and matured, but as to the great excellence of the object, those who know, that country best, could best understand the benefits which were to be expected. He would not advert to the more immediate advantages in the improved administration of justice; but he could not deny himself the satisfaction of stating the peculiar benefits he anticipated to the political condition and habits of the people. It had hitherto been the misfortune of that country, that its people, and particularly the middling ranks, were not accustomed to think of and to canvass their political rights—to have a due knowledge of their own importance. The introduction of jury trial would accustom them to deal with important rights, and would engender an independence of thought and of political feeling, and a knowledge of their own political rights, which would produce the utmost benefit to the general interests and character of the country. He could not sit down without noticing another effect of infinite moment derived from the introduction of jury trial in civil causes, that it had exhibited to Scotland, juries constituted as they ought to be; he meant chosen by ballot, and with a right of peremptory challenge to the parties. The House would hear with astonishment that all juries chosen in Scotland for the trial of criminal offenders were otherwise constituted. The jury consisted of 15, and 45 persons were returned by the sheriff out of whom the 15 were to be had. But the presiding judge named the 15 who
1351Mr. Kennedy
warranto;scire facias1364ex parte, at the time of governor Semple's death, was at St. Mary's. He immediately proceeded thence to Fort William, with 200 soldiers, and arrested all whom he chose. He ought to have pone to York, which was not far from St. Mary's, and obtained regular officers to suppress this "nest of murderers," as he termed them; but no, he went himself, acting as a magistrate! he arrested all present, many of whom he knew to be innocent, and sent them away to Montreal, a distance of 1,500 miles: among them be sent Mr. William Macgillivray, as respectable a gentleman as any in that House, and one who had nothing whatever to do with the transaction complained of. What was the course then taken? Against Mr. Wm. Macgillivray a bill was never filed. But the noble earl not only arrested those persons—he seized their property, a part of which he applied to his own use. His agents (for he could not believe it possible that the noble earl himself would be guilty of such practices) kept a person addicted to drinking in a state of perpetual intoxication, until they practised upon and induced him to make a fraudulent transfer of the property that had been seized. The whole of the noble earl's proceedings had been most unwarrantable. After having obtained possession of Fort William, he sent to the next post, which he compelled to capitulate. He (Mr. E.) had had a good deal of expedience in the colony, and he had no hesitation in saying, that the complaint of the hon. baronet against the legal authorities was the first that had been made He allowed that on the warranto;scire facias1364ex parteLord Selkirk
 said, that about five years ago, a commission was appointed to inquire into the administration of justice in England, Scotland and Ireland. The House, however, would learn with surprise, that though the Scotch commissioners had given in four or five reports, not one step had been taken towards carrying into execution any of the measures suggested by the commissioners. His majesty's ministers had, in his opinion, been very negligent in not taking some steps on these reports. Those were to this moment a dead letter. The consequence was, that the commissioners themselves had been brought into discredit. The only thing which had been done by ministers was, to make the reference for which he was about to move to the judges of the courts in Scotland. This reference to the courts themselves was, in his opinion, highly improper; for what could be more improper than the referring the reports of persons finding fault with something in the administration of courts of justice to those courts themselves? Having inspected the reports, he had found in them many important suggestions for the improvement of the courts. It seemed like a mockery of the House, that after an inquiry had been voted, and most conscientiously conducted, his majesty's ministers had paid no attention whatever to the reports. The noble lord concluded with moving, for "Copies of all References which had been made to the Judges or Law Officers of the Crown in Scotland, of any reports of the Commissioners of Inquiry into the Courts of Justice in Scotland, and the Answers thereto, together with the Tables of Fees of the various Courts."Lord A. Hamilton
1363l.l.1362136113601359 seconded the motion. He could assure the hon. baronet that no one lamented more than he did the atrocities which had taken place in North America, and which were now the subject of discussion. He had to regret that the hon. baronet had not, with the candour which characterized other parts of his statement, adverted to the causes of those unfortunate transactions. The hon. baronet had stated the proceedings of lord Selkirk, from the time at which he first went to America up to the present time. Before the noble lord had entered on this plan of colonization, he (Mr. Ellice) had the honour of being acquainted with his views; and although he was aware that colonization was his lordship's primary and principal object, yet he must be pardoned for saying that it had afterwards become connected with purposes of trade. The noble lord was a considerable proprietor in the Hudson's Bay company, and he could not help thinking, that if his lordship's only object was colonization, he should not have embarked in trade. He had differed at first, as he did still, from those who thought that great advantage would result from this plan; but it was unnecessary for him to trouble the House at present with the reason which induced him to do so. He was a share-holder in the Hudson's Bay company, as well as the hon. baronet opposite; and when the plan of colonization was first proposed, he at a meeting of the proprietors entered his protest against it. The hon. baronet had quoted the opinions of eminent lawyers in favour of the right which the company had, to make the grant of land to lord Selkirk; and he must; say, that he also had taken the best opi-
1363l.l.1362136113601359Mr. Ellice
 called upon the hon. gentleman opposite to give an answer to the speech of the hon. baronet, which was one of the most able and argumentative that had ever been delivered within the walls of parliament. The hon. member expressed his surprise at some of the arguments of his hon. friend (Mr. Ellice), and defended Mr. Pritchard, the petitioner, whom he described as one of the most honest and honourable men that breathed. The question was of great importance —whether we were to have peace in our settlement, or such scenes of fraud and violence? He called upon the hon. gentleman opposite to refute the serious charge made against the law officers of Upper Canada, and he particularly alluded to the trial of Mr. Macdonald, in 1816, in which the conduct of these officers had been represented as extremely culpable. If all the statements on this subject were true, he was satisfied that impartial justice could not have been administered. The hon. member who opened the debate had asserted, that the governor in the Upper Province (sir Peregrine Maitland) had been guilty of a dereliction of his duty. Of the facts of the case he (Mr. Bennet) knew but little; but this he would say, that there did not exist on the face of the earth, a more honest, virtuous, and amiable character than this gentleman, whose life bad been spent in the sacrifice of his own personal comforts, for the indulgence of all but himself. For no man was there so general an esteem, and no man ever enjoyed the confidence of all classes more than he did. He was possessed of a sound head and an excellent heart, and would do his duty with the utmost scrupulousness. He trusted that the stigma which had been thrown upon the law officers of the Crown in the colony in question, could be satisfactorily refuted.Mr. Bennet
13721371137013691368 said, he felt himself called upon to address a few observations to the House in exculpation of the conduct of government during the whole of this transaction. He had reserved himself until that moment, because he wished to have the advantage of hearing the sentiments of those hon. members who felt an interest in the cause of lord Selkirk on the one hand, and of the North-west
13721371137013691368Mr. Goulburn
13671366 said, that lord Selkirk had, he firmly believed, entered on this project with no other view but that of establishing a colony, without intending to interfere with any set of men. He apprised his majesty's government—he apprised the colonial department—of his intention. He heard no kind of objection from them; but from that hour to the present, he was not informed by them of their opinion, as to the legality and validity of his proceeding, on which the prosperity of the speculation and the success of the enterprise altogether depended. Lord Selkirk, from a laudable purpose of establishing a colony in those parts, and of protecting it, had suffered more in health, in property, and even in character than any man alive who had undertaken to execute a great enterprise. His sole object was colonization, in the first instance, and not trade. This was not a question between lord Selkirk and any set of individuals. The question was this, whether Canada, a country much larger than England, and the soil of part of which was equally fertile with that of England, should remain an uncultivated waste, inhabited by savages, and half-breeds, or be advantageously employed by industrious men? The question was, whether opposition should be manifested against those who wished to dispossess the animals of the chase, and to introduce a spirit of civilization where savage life
13671366Mr. W. Smith
135813571356termineroyer1355135413531352 rose to bring forward the motion of which he had given notice respecting the serious and active disputes that had taken place in British America between the North West and the Hudson's-bay company. He felt himself bound as much by public considerations as by his private relation to the noble lord immediately interested, to call the attention of parliament to the transactions which had taken place in that quarter of the globe. It had occurred to lord Selkirk, at an early period of his life, that a plan of emigration to that quarter might be usefully and beneficially formed; knowing that its situation afforded many advantages; and also being aware that there existed in Ireland and Scotland a discontented population, who would willingly emigrate to British America. To this project he was known to have devoted his most zealous efforts and his best days. A company had been constituted about a century ago, under the administration of lord Pelham, called the Hudson's-bay company. Under the royal charter then granted, a great space of territory, with more than ordinary powers of jurisdiction, was vested in the company. To that company lord Selkirk applied for a charter or grant, which he obtained, of a part of their territory called the Red River. He improved this country at great labour, and expense, and formed a settlement there;
135813571356termineroyer1355135413531352Sir James Montgomery
"et cetera;"1365 defended the conduct of lord Selkirk from the charge of violence, observing, that he was not in the country at the time the act was committed by Mr. Macdonald; and that as Mr. Macdonald himself had acted through mistake, he ought not to have been indicted for a felony. He then took a review of the charter granted to the Hudson's-bay company, and contended for the validity of that charter, according to the opinion he had originally given when consulted as counsel on the subject. The colony on
"et cetera;"1365Mr. Scarlett
1375s.s.,s.s.l.l.1374 said, he felt himself bound to oppose the motion. Much had been said on the subject of taxes affecting the poor, and taxes affecting the rich. The distinction was more apparent than real; for taxes on the poor must inevitably be felt by the rich, and taxes on the rich must diminish the funds for the employ-
1375s.s.,s.s.l.l.1374Mr. Western
vox et prœterea nihil1376l.l.l.; could not help calling the attention of the House, to one point connected with this question, which he thought of considerable importance. When the proposition for the new taxes was first brought forward by the chancellor of the exchequer, it was accompanied with a resolution on the subject of economy and retrenchment, which could not have been forgotten by the House; and he (lord E.) was much disappointed, that, whilst the House had so readily acquiesced in the imposition of these burthens, no measure whatever had been proposed by ministers, for carrying the above resolution into effect. But how much was that disappointment increased, when, by the paper lately laid on the table, entitled "Increase and Diminution of Public Salaries," it was shown that the expense of the public offices for the last year, had exceeded the former one by above 100,000vox et prœterea nihil1376l.l.l.;Lord Ebrington
1377, on rising to move, that the House should accede to the amendment introduced by the Lords into the Cash Payments' bill, observed, that in the alteration of their lordships was involved no departure from the principle of the clause upon which it was founded. By that clause, the option
1377Mr. Peel
 having moved the third reading of this bill,Mr. Peel
 said, he thought it ought to be left to the discretion of the Bank to return to payments in specie as soon as it might be deemed expedient; that it should be allowed to proceed as early as convenient, from the price of bullion or other causes, to discharge imperceptibly (if he might use that expression) the one and two pound notes, the bulk of which ought to be taken out of circulation previous to the entire resumption of cash payments. He would agree to the amendment, although it fell short of his views, rather than risk the clause altogether. Another reason for pressing the principle of that amendment was this, that in case the Bank should contract its issues of paper, while bullion should fall in price below the rate at which the Bank was to pay its notes, he could not conceive how the transactions of the country were to be carried on, if the Bank was prohibited from paying in specie, especially as gold in ingots was not a legal tender. Besides, any gold coin paid into the Bank could not again be issued, until the period mentioned in this amendment, and thus the currency of the country would be limited. Another reason for the adoption of the clause referred to was this, that although it was provided by the bill that the Bank should pay certain notes in ingots of gold, there was no provision that those ingots should be again received in payment by the Bank.Mr. Ellice
l. expressed his satisfaction at its enactments. It was, he conceived, a measure which, allowing to the Bank their fair proportion of profit, would prevent those abuses to which he had so frequently called the attention of the House. It was now four years since he had first called the attention of the House to the nature of the transactions between the Bank and the government—since he had pointed out where it was that a saving might be made without any injustice to the Bank. Perhaps, now that the country was to be let into a portion of the large profits which were made—now that there was to be established those regulations for which he had contended, it became him to say, that he would now take his leave of the Bank subject. There were still, however, some details which remained to be settled, such as the charge for the management of the public debt, which amounted to some 200,000 or 300,000l.Mr. Grenfell
 contended, that it would be highly unjust to levy the new duty on the stock in hand. On account of the great fall in the price of barley, by the importation of foreign grain since the beginning of the season, the malster would not be able to realize from his malt the cost price of the raw barley.Mr. Farrand
 expressed his concurrence in the views of the hon. gentleman, with regard to the expediency of leaving it to the discretion of the Bank to determine at what time, and under what circumstances, it would be proper to commence the payment of its notes in the currrent coin of the realm.Mr. Manning
 said, he should not discharge his duty, if he did not protest in a more formal manner than by a silent vote against the present bill. Nothing could, in his opinion, justify any additional burthens on the people at the present moment.Mr. Ord
 once more entered his dissent to the proposal now before the House. At this moment new rumours of disturbances were afloat in the manufacturing districts; plots probably not planned by desperate leaders, but by insidious instigators. But what materials would these men have for their work, were it not for the burthens under which the people were groaning. The new taxes were, when compared with the whole present amount of taxation, said to be small; but it is the last feather that breaks the horse's back.Sir R. Wilson
1419 observed, that the House ought to consider that this was a service
1419Mr. Gurney
 contended, that general Boyd had no claim whatever on this country. In the first place, on the occasion alluded to in India, general Boyd had not moved from his position in aid of the British; and in the second place, he had endeavoured to magnify his losses with a view to obtain a larger sum than that to which, even were the justice of his claim allowed, he was fairly entitled. If general Boyd had insured his cargo of saltpetre for the sum which he expected to obtain by it, he would have sustained no loss. He was surprised at the interest taken by the hon. member, in an individual, who, at the head of 2,000 mercenaries, had been ready to fight for any power which might think fit to employ him. He could not consent that the taxes wrung from the people should be improvidently lavished; and was satisfied that the claim set up on the present occasion was totally unfounded.Mr. Marryat
 said, that if it had appeared to the committee, that any fraudulent attempt had been made to impose on them, they would have flung back the application with disdain and indignation. There was nothing in the evidence to warrant such an imputation.Mr. Wilberforce
l.1418l.l.1417 prefaced his motion for a grant of remuneration to general
l.1418l.l.1417Mr. Wilberforce
 felt it his duty to support the proposed grant. There was no doubt entertained of the extent of the service, or of the justice of the remuneration given by the India Company. This remuneration was, permission to take a cargo of saltpetre to America, from which he would have realized a very great profit. Of this profit he was deprived, by the cargo having been seized by British officers. Having lost the reward given by the India Company, general Boyd appealed, not to the justice, but to the equity and liberality of parliament, for some recompence for his services. If he understood the objections urged against the motion, they were two-fold: first, that general Boyd ought to have protected himself from loss by insuring his cargo; and secondly, because there had been some misstatements relative to the amount of the loss. If the vessel had been lost at sea, or captured by a French privateer, the first would be undoubtedly a good argument against any claim on this country; but here the case was different. How was this property lost to general Boyd? It was lost by the act of British officers, and therefore by the act of the British government. How was he to provide against this? Suppose the compensation had been in money, and that general Boyd had been robbed of it by officers professedly acting under the British government, would it be contended that he had no claim on this country? Undoubtedly not. And yet the principle was the same. This gentleman could not have had an idea that he ought to insure property received from this country against the acts of this country. This was in fact giving with one hand and taking away with the other. The motion was then put and carried.Sir J. Mackintosh
1421 said, he objected to the whole of the measure. He had little doubt that the chancellor of the exchequer had been induced to abandon his first intentions, and to adopt the present bill, in consequence of the statement to him of some strong case; but he was quite at a loss to imagine what that case was. If the right hon. gentleman had founded his determination in this respect upon the Rev. Mr. Chichester's pamphlet, he must say, that the right hon. gentleman was in no way justified in coming to such a resolution, for that pamphlet was full of gross exaggerations, in many parts answered itself, and in others was overcharged and overwrought. Some of the accusations, indeed, were even futile and indecent. He could not believe that the chancellor of the exchequer had proceeded to the length of repealing the present beneficial law, in consequence of giving credit to such assertions; and if he had not, it was his duty to call upon the attorney-general to prosecute the author for a scandalous libel. It was not because the existing law had in some few instances been exceeded, that a bill like this was to be adopted, which would be most injurious to the trade and agriculture of Ireland. The present law had been very efficient in Donegal and the north of Ireland, in putting down illicit distillation. All enactments of this kind connected with the revenue were liable to abuse; but what he complained of was, that because a forcible speech had been made, and an exaggerated pamphlet written, a law which had produced so much advantage was to be abandoned, at the risk of restoring a system which it had taken years to destroy. The measure before the House would have the effect of injuring all the great distillers in Ireland; and through them a blow would be struck at the agriculture of the sister kingdom. The appeal made to the House against the fining system was, that the innocent suffered for the guilty; but by the new law, a very numerous police was to be established in the various districts,
1421Mr. Hutchinson
 rose to vindicate his relation, the author of the pamphlet referred to by the last speaker, from the charges brought againt him. That rev. gentleman was anxious to be allowed an opportunity of proving what he had advanced, and he certainly felt that he laboured under the disadvantage of making assertions, as to severity and tyranny, that appeared on the first blush incredible.Mr. Chichester
1422 denied that he had made the statements of the pamphlet in question the grounds on which he had acted. It was obvious from the proceedings of the House for the last three or four years, that a deep feeling prevailed against the extreme severity of the law relating to still fines in Ireland. He allowed that that law had been in a considerable degree effectual in protecting the revenue, but the increasing indignation against it had induced him to look out for a substitute: he had endeavoured to find a middle course, and that middle course he flattered himself was the bill now before the House. He could not agree that it was established upon the principle of making the innocent suffer for the guilty, nearly so much as the law which it superseded. The country at large was chargeable with the burthen of the whole revenue system, and the objection applied as much to all
1422The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1423 said, that unless the collateral measure for the encouragement of small stills should be passed,
1423Lord Mount-Charles
 recommended the adoption of the repeal of the fining system, combined with the establishment of the police, and the postponement to next session of that part which related to small stills; with a pledge that it should be one of the first measures then taken into consideration.—Some further discussion took place; after which various clauses were proposed and discussed. On a clause for giving the grand juries the power of levying the still fines on town lands, the House divided: Ayes, 37; Noes, 17. The House then resumed.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that having been on the staff in Ireland, he had had an opportunity of knowing the truth of many facts similar to those detailed in the pamphlet alluded to. He pledged his own personal knowledge for the truth of four out of five of the cases of cruelty and seventy stated against the excise officers by Mr. Chichester. The still fines law had introduced poverty, demoralization, and misery, into a part of the country where they were previously comparatively unknown. He understood that since the crown land fining system had recommenced, 25,000 persons had embarked at Derry for America; and that preparations were now going on there which induced people to think the number would this year be greatly increased. The effect of the existing law was, to produce a total change in the character of many of the inhabitants of the north of Ireland. He complained that there was nothing in Ireland but a system of punishment; misery had been ameliorated in other countries— punishment had been nearly abolished even in the army—why should it be reserved for the people of Ireland alone? In Ireland the people knew nothing of the law but its severity. In Ireland there were good materials; it was to be lamented that these materials were not properly used. The people of that country were not treated with lenity. If they were encouraged; if their energies were called forth; the empire would reap the full fruits of a wise and liberal system of government, in the increasing strength and prosperity of the empire.General Hart
 thought it was through the fault or negligence of the civil power alone that any measure of this nature could be deemed necessary.Sir H. Parnell
1426 said, he felt it to be his duty to state to the House the very awkward situation in which he was placed with respect to this bill. Some time since, when the hon. baronet brought in the bill, he had received a letter from the mayor of Cork, and from a number of merchants, requesting most anxiously that he would give his support to the measure. By the very same post there was also forwarded to him, a letter, agreed to at a very numerous meeting of the mercantile interest in Cork, calling on him to oppose the bill. He was sorry to find that so decided a difference of opinion existed in the city of Cork; but the fact was, that many of the inhabitants, persons of great respectability, were decidedly opposed to this bill. It was a most desirable object, that the harbour should be properly improved. Those who petitioned against the bill were of that opinion; but they differed essentially, as to the nature of the present measure, from those who approved of this bill. The bill went to impose a considerable taxation on the city of Cork. He found that a public meeting was called, in May last, for the purpose of considering this measure. The object of the meeting was, to discuss the merits of the bill; but that meeting did not come to any decision, although it appeared clearly, that the sentiments of those who attended it were hostile to the bill. Two days afterwards, another meeting was assembled, in consequence of the former not having come to any resolution, and agreed unanimously to a series of resolutions against the bill. Here, he wished to state, that he did not mean to censure the bill; perhaps when the measure was duly considered, it might be found unobjectionable; but it came on him entirely by surprise. They were now very near the termination of the session; so that it was not possible for those who were hostile to the bill, to state, before a committee, their reasons for wishing it to be rejected. He, however, submitted to the hon. baronet, whether it would not be better, to postpone any further proceeding until the ensuing session. It was not the wealthy merchant that would feel its operation, but persons of more humble means, and whose case, therefore, called more especially for the protection of the legislature. He was placed, with respect
1426Mr. Hutchinson
 said, that where a strong opposition was manifested against any private bill, it never was the practice of the House to suffer any of the regular stages to be hurried over. This being the case, it was for gentlemen to consider, whether there was any prospect of the present bill passing through the committee and third reading in this House, and afterwards proceeding through all its stages in the House of Lords, with a proper degree of consideration. Would there be time for proceeding regularly with it? Whatever disposition the House might feel to assist in the acceleration of a measure, by suspending the standing orders, where all the parties were agreed, it was not customary, where a private measure was opposed, to relax any of them.The Speaker
 said, he would be the last man to introduce a measure prejudicial to the city of Cork, or opposed to the interests of those whom he had the honour to represent; but he believed that a vast majority was favourable to the bill.Sir N. Colthurst
 said, that he should, in the course of the evening, have to present a petition against the measure from Mr. Isaac Hewitt, a gentleman of great respectability in Cork: that petition contained an able statement of facts; and after a careful perusal of it, he felt satisfied, that the House would not deem it proper, or even decent, to proceed with the bill. The House divided—when there appeared—For the commitment (Sir N. Colthurst acting as teller) 0; Against it, 45. The bill was consequently lost.Mr. Bennet
"William Hallett; the offence for which you stand committed to the custody of the serjeant at arms, is of the most grave and serious description, insulting to the dignity and authority of this House, and an endeavour, as far as in you lay, to impede the course of public justice.—You allege in your petition, in mitigation of your misconduct, that you were not served with the order for attendance; this statement is doubtless correct, but you were reported by a committee of this House, appointed to try the Camelford election petition, as having wilfully absconded with a view to avoid the service of such order.—Be not therefore misled yourself, and think not to mislead the House, by so vain and futile a distinction;—It is no extenuation of your misconduct, and no reparation to public justice, that you did not aggravate your offence by open disobedience. I will only add, that this is an attempt that never can succeed in attaining the object at which it aims;—the only result in which it can terminate, as it has terminated in your case, is, in the disgrace and punishment of the individual who is hardy enough to venture upon it.—In consideration, however, of the peculiar circumstances of this case, the present state of your ill health, your solemn promises of Future amendment, and, above all, the pledge you have given, that you will be found ready to attend at any time when called upon, and with a deliberate determination to give full, and fair, and unreserved testimony, when examined,—under all these considerations, the House has determined to forbear any further punishment, and to release you from your present confinement. In obedience, therefore, to the commands of this House, I reprimand you, and have to inform you, that you are now discharged, upon payment of your fees." was brought to the bar, where he received the following reprimand from Mr. Speaker, and was discharged;
"William Hallett; the offence for which you stand committed to the custody of the serjeant at arms, is of the most grave and serious description, insulting to the dignity and authority of this House, and an endeavour, as far as in you lay, to impede the course of public justice.—You allege in your petition, in mitigation of your misconduct, that you were not served with the order for attendance; this statement is doubtless correct, but you were reported by a committee of this House, appointed to try the Camelford election petition, as having wilfully absconded with a view to avoid the service of such order.—Be not therefore misled yourself, and think not to mislead the House, by so vain and futile a distinction;—It is no extenuation of your misconduct, and no reparation to public justice, that you did not aggravate your offence by open disobedience. I will only add, that this is an attempt that never can succeed in attaining the object at which it aims;—the only result in which it can terminate, as it has terminated in your case, is, in the disgrace and punishment of the individual who is hardy enough to venture upon it.—In consideration, however, of the peculiar circumstances of this case, the present state of your ill health, your solemn promises of Future amendment, and, above all, the pledge you have given, that you will be found ready to attend at any time when called upon, and with a deliberate determination to give full, and fair, and unreserved testimony, when examined,—under all these considerations, the House has determined to forbear any further punishment, and to release you from your present confinement. In obedience, therefore, to the commands of this House, I reprimand you, and have to inform you, that you are now discharged, upon payment of your fees."William Hallett
 was perfectly ready to state the whole transaction, as far as he was acquainted with it. An hon. member had some time since applied to him, to lay before the treasury a memorial from the duke of Kent, for a bill to enable him to dispose of a part of his property by lottery. It was then thought that the consent of the Crown was necessary, and the commands of the Prince Regent were therefore taken upon it. His royal highness referred the question to the lord Chancellor, the first lord of the Treasury, and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who had considered the question, whether it would be expedient that any individual should be allowed so to dispose of his property to pay off debts or incumbrances, and they had determined that to recommend such a bill to parliament would be setting a dangerous precedent. They had therefore recommended that the royal leave, if it were necessary, should not be given. This information he had given to the hon. member who had offered the memorial; and it had been thought most consistent with delicacy to the illustrious personage concerned, that the memorial should be returned, and the whole proceeding considered a nullity. Since that time, a precedent had been found which warranted the conclusion that the consent and recommendation of the Crown was not necessary. A petition had accordingly been presented to the House, but his majesty's government had given no sanction to it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that government had acted in this affair as the country expected of them. A bill had, he understood, been prepared in consequence of the petition of last night, and he trusted the House would not allow it to pass without due examination.Mr. Grenfell
 observed, that in the votes, he read the following:—" Duke of Kent's lottery—petition for leave to present a petition for a bill—reported—leave given." He wished for some explanation as to the nature of the proposed lottery.Mr. Grenfell
1438 rose to submit his resolutions on the mode of conducting Public Works. He observed, that under the present system, when any building of more than ordinary extent and importance was erected, it was placed entirely under the superintendence of the surveyor general of public works. It often happened that the person filling this office, though well qualified to conduct the ordinary business of repairs, might be deficient in architectural knowledge. To secure to the public the advantages of the best architectural skill, and to guard, at the same time, against the improvident practice of paying architects by a percentage on the sums expended, he submitted the following Resolutions:—1. "That, wherever it becomes necessary to erect any great, and extensive Building at the Public expense, except such Buildings as are now placed under the direction and control of the surveyor-general of his majesty's works, &c. the said surveyor-general of his majesty's works, with the approbation of the lords of the treasury, shall, in such manner as may appear most expedient, invite a competition of architects to prepare and submit to him designs and plans accommodated to the purposes of such Buildings. 2. That, when the plan and elevation for any such Buildings shall have been approved, the work should be performed by contract, under public advertisement, care being taken, under the direction of the said surveyor-general, that there shall be a constant and effectual superintendence of such architect as he shall appoint, to provide the necessary working drawings, &c. and to secure the execution of the whole, in strict conformity to the terms and specification agreed upon. 3. That, for such superintendence, &c. an adequate, but moderate and fixed compensation should be assigned; and that the usual mode of paying for such superintendence, by a percentage upon the money laid out, appears to be ill calculated for checking and con-
1438Mr. Bankes
1439 said, he had a petition to present to the House from Mr. Bedingfield, a gentleman of an ancient and respectable family, but who rested his claim to their attention on merits exclusively his own. It would be in the recollection of the House, that, in 1795, there was considerable discontent and dissatisfaction in the country. On October the 31st, in that year, his majesty, on his way to parliament, was treated in a manner which no one could reflect on without regret. He referred to the proclamation which was issued at the time for a description of the conduct of the mob, which was described to be in open violation of the laws, and to the imminent danger of the king's person. The outrages did not end here, for, after his majesty had returned to St. James's, and was proceeding from thence to Buckingham house, in his private carriage, he was again assailed by the mob. The king was assailed with opprobrious language; and the populace, armed with bludgeons, were about to force open the door of the carriage, when they were prevented by the timely interference of Mr. Bedingfield, who drove the crowd from the door of the carriage, and prevented them from approaching it till a detachment of the Guards arrived, who rescued his majesty, and conveyed him to Buckingham-house. This service was acknowledged by his majesty at the time in a few words, but in an emphatic manner at the next levee, where, speaking of this gentleman, he said, "He came just in time." If this gentleman had been possessed of an ample fortune, these words would have been a sufficient reward; but as he was in different circumstances, it was not to be
1439Lord Morpeth
 thought it strange, that, after a lapse of 24 years, the petitioner should deem it necessary to throw himself on parliament. He knew nothing of the facts of the case; but he could not conceive that the ministers of that day would have neglected their duty by not inquiring into the merits of the petitioner.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had known the petitioner for a number of years, and was sure that he was incapable of stating as fact that which he did not believe to be true.Mr. C. Hervey
1440║ presented a petition from Liverpool, praying for Parliamentary Reform, signed by upwards of 1,800 respectable householders, who complained that they were not represented in parliament. He did not know the nature of the motion which it was the intention of an hon. baronet to propose that evening; but he regretted to say, that he had lately had but too many opportunities of witnessing the dissentions which prevailed among those
1440║The Marquis of Tavistock
14521451145014491448144714461445¶1444144314421441 rose and said:—In consequence of the notice I gave the other day, I now rise to bring once more under the consideration of the House, the state of the representation of the people in parliament. With respect to what has fallen from the noble marquis, who has just presented the petition from Liverpool, and who took the opportunity of inveigh-
14521451145014491448144714461445¶1444144314421441Sir Francis Burdett
1467lllll1466146514641463146214611460Made huge Plinlimmon bow his cloud-capp'd head.""Whose magic tongueYou sleep, and, waking, find yourself undone."Subside, you languish into mortal man,So, when the frantic raptures in your breastSinks from its tumult to a silent brook,Swol'n o'er its banks with sudden mountainShuts o'er your head, and, as the thund'ring stream, [rain,But soon your heaven is gone; a heavier gloomOr are, or shall be, could this folly last."The happiest you of all that e'er were mad1459145814571456145514541453. —Whatever you think is out of order, Sir, I must feel to be so.—In truth, the gentlemen who com-
1467lllll1466146514641463146214611460Made huge Plinlimmon bow his cloud-capp'd head.""Whose magic tongueYou sleep, and, waking, find yourself undone."Subside, you languish into mortal man,So, when the frantic raptures in your breastSinks from its tumult to a silent brook,Swol'n o'er its banks with sudden mountainShuts o'er your head, and, as the thund'ring stream, [rain,But soon your heaven is gone; a heavier gloomOr are, or shall be, could this folly last."The happiest you of all that e'er were mad1459145814571456145514541453Sir Francis Burdett
1474 said, he should vote for passing to the other orders of the day, on the grounds of the motion going to pledge the House as to its proceedings in a future session.—When circumstances might be such, as that it would be extremely proper to go into an inquiry on the state of the representation; or others might arise to render it extremely inconvenient. The hon. member said, he should not follow the hon. baronet through the whole of his historical detail, in which, as usual, he had instanced times and persons with a very singular infelicity; but he could not help expressing his hope, that the measures of the present session in throwing boroughs convicted of gross corruption into the adjacent hundreds would not be persisted in. The Commons House of Parliament, had, from the first, been constituted of four descriptions of persons—the knights of shires, the representatives of considerable places paying largely to subsidies, the burgesses of the boroughs of burgage tenure as the king's tenants in ancient demesne, and the representatives of the chartered boroughs: through the medium of these, all classes of the community were in effect pretty fairly and equally represented. Whilst, by the hon. baronet's plan of localizing reform, the whole power of the state would be thrown into the hands of the Crown and the great landholders—the professions, and the commercial interests, would hardly be represented; and it was difficult to see how the colonial interests could be represented at all—which last, in the present extent of the British empire, was no trifling consideration in the well governance of the state. At the same time it would not be denied that all the towns formerly of great importance did send representatives—that borough after borough whilst the representation was considered a burthen, did, either by favor or neglect cease from receiving the precept—That there had been constant instances of writs issued to new places — and therefore, according to all constitutional precedent, and all principle, and all analogy, when the charter of any borough was declared to be forfeited, the vacancy ought most purely to be filled by some great unrepresented districts, and
1474Mr. Gurney
1482l. said, that he had heard it contended in that House that the freemen of boroughs ought not to be deprived of their rights. By their rights, he supposed was meant the public breakfast, or 241482l.Mr. Alderman Wood
1483 said, it was his firm conviction, that on a reform of that House depended the stability of the constitution and the happiness of the people. An hon. member had urged that much good had been derived from the House of Commons as now constituted. This was indisputably true. It was impossible that an assembly of gentlemen, however selected, could deliberate and take part in legislation in the present age, without doing much good. But the question recurred, can we not derive greater good from it? If the House had consulted the good of the country, it was most unfortunate for that hon. member to have been uniformly opposed to the good of his country. If he had thought it necessary, he could have come prepared to specify many particular questions which had been decided by that House, and the numbers which divided upon them; but one instance he could state from memory, in which a different result would have been a great good. A motion had been made immediately after the peace for maintaining a large standing army. Particular good would have been got by defeating this motion. It was carried by 3 to 2. But if all the members for boroughs requiring reform were struck out of the number, the proportion would be reversed, and the motion for the large standing army would be supported by 2 to 3. He would ask, was not the county representation more pure than the representation of Penryn, Grampound, and Barnstaple.
1483Mr. Williams
, of Gal way, said, as the present motion was rather a notice of one to be made in the next session, he thought every argument on reform at present irrelevant. An hon. alderman had said, that his constituents, many thousands in number, were unanimously in favour of reform; but he pledged himself, if the worthy alderman would obtain for him a fair audience by those persons, that he would cause some of them to change their opinions. He had once spoken at Palace-yard against reform, and thanked the worthy baronet opposite for having then procured him a patient hearing. It those gentlemen who with him entertained opinions opposed to a reform in parliament were to attend popular meetings, their arguments would then be turned to more advantage than if delivered in this House.Mr. Martin
1494 said, that although a friend to parliamentary reform, he was far from
1494Mr. Price
150115001499Property14981497 said, he supported the motion from a thorough conviction, that the House of Commons, as at present composed, did not afford to the people a full, fair, and impartial representation. He had anxiously watched the conduct of the recently-elected House, in the hope of finding there the faithful guardians of the public purse; but he was grieved to say, he had not discovered any improvement, nor a considerate and economical discharge of, perhaps, the most important trust with which individuals could be vested. He had heard language in the debate which had convinced him, that there did not exist that sympathy between the representatives and the people, that proud, and, he would call it, that happy
150115001499Property14981497Mr. Hutchinson
1502 said, he would not be deterred from supporting this question, because it was brought forward by an hon. baronet, who, by his conduct, had made himself very unacceptable to many members in that House. This he said with sincere regret, on account of the high respect he entertained for him. The hon. baronet had not shown himself a friend to parliamentary reform; on the contrary, he was very much its enemy, and had prevented many, who had formerly favoured the question, from latterly giving it their support. The hon. baronet, by separating himself from the gentlemen of the coun-
1502Mr. Byng
1503 replied as follows: —After the able support which the motion has received, and the very little argument which has been advanced against it, I have but few remarks to make. I am well contented that the question should stand before the public in the way in which it will be presented to them by this debate. In respect to the hon. member for Herefordshire, who has given me the advantage of his testimony to my good conduct, I feel a full sense of the obligation; and for the small degree of support which he seems inclined to give to reform, I beg leave to assure him, in the language of those who receive charitable contributions, that the smallest donation will be thankfully received.— As to the member for Middlesex who is pleased to say, that he considers it a great misfortune that I have disconnected myself with the aristocracy of the country, I can only say, that I cannot attribute it to any fault of my own, but to their desertion of those principles which alone can restore happiness and liberty to this country: it has been owing to those who suffer the differences of public opinion to disturb and embitter the relations of private society, and not to any feelings of animosity on my part. My endeavour has always been to persuade the aristocracy that their real interest consisted in being the leaders and supporters of the rights of the people; and I can only lament that this has proved any cause of offence.—The noble lord (John Russell) has thought proper to stigmatize, as wild and visionary, those resolutions for reform which I moved last year. One would suppose that there was some magic in these words, which are repeated over and over again, which are made to stand in lieu of all argument, and seem to be considered as a sufficient answer to every plan of reform on every occasion. The noble lord would do more credit to his talents and candour, and I intreat him to undertake the task, if he would point out the defects, either in the principles or in the reasoning employed in those resolutions, and I can assure him that he will find no one more willing or more ready to become a convert to the truth, when proved to be so, however different from
1503Sir Francis Burdett
 urged the propriety of not pressing the bill further in the present session. He wished not to express any decided opinion as to the measure; but it was to be remarked, that it only gave relief to one class of persons, who objected to the present marriage ceremony—the Protestant dissenters, and not to the Catholics, who also objected to it.Lord Castlereagh
14691468, in rising to second the motion, congratulated the friends of reform on the manner in which it had been introduced by the hon. baronet. It had been introduced so as to embrace all the supporters of reform, and not to embarrass the question by harassing details, which might tend to excite conflicting opinions, and which could be much better reserved for future consideration. He did not mean to follow the hon. baronet through all his eloquent and able details, many of which, however happily delivered, were yet extraneous to the question, and in one of which only he thought him not borne out by the fact. He begged to be understood at the outset as dissenting from the opinions of those men and their theories with whom the hon. baronet was sometimes in the habit of connecting himself; he disclaimed their absurdities; but while he did so, he avowed himself to be the firm friend of a rational reform. He was not one of those who thought that the march of reform had of late been judicious or great out of doors; he rather thought that, from the hands into which it had fallen it had been, to use the military phrase, "marking time," rather than advancing. It had been marching here and marching there, kicking up a dust in its progress, standing still though the feet were occasionally thrown
14691468Mr. George Lamb
 wished to state distinctly that he did not agree with those who opposed all and every system of reform. He agreed in the propriety of disfranchising such boroughs as were notoriously corrupt, and would give his consent to any measure that would restrict the duration of parliament to three years. He could not, however, pledge himself to support a measure that went the length of proposing an inquiry into the general state of the representation, because such an inquiry was calculated to throw a slur upon the representation of the country, and to fill the minds of the people with vague and indefinite alarms. The hon. baronet had complained that the reformers were represented to be wild and visionary theorists, and had called upon the House to state where those wild and visionary reformers were to be found? If the hon. baronet did not know where to find them, he would refer him to those persons who had advised him during the last session to bring forward his celebrated motion for annual parliaments and universal suffrage.Lord John Russell
 said, that the length of time which had elapsed should be no bar to the claim of the petitioner, whose meritorious conduct had been universally acknowledged in 1795.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
14961495 said, he should never bring himself to agree with those who believed the representation of the people in parliament to be in a condition which required no amendment. Nevertheless, he shrunk from the idea of administering any general reform, especially at a period when theories the most visionary and alarming were vehemently contended for out of doors. He could not therefore accede to the motion of the hon. baronet, for, so far from agreeing with a worthy alderman, who thought it would pledge the House to nothing, the House would, in his opinion, clearly stand pledged by it, to the early adoption, or at least consideration, of some organized and general plan. He considered it even more objectionable than a proposal, that the House should at once bind itself to a specific and exclusive mode of reform, because that might have appeared to supersede the necessity for any further discussion of various schemes and systems, either in or out of the House; but the resolution proposed by the hon. baronet, would excite the most absurd and dangerous suggestions, and possibly occasion very serious commotions in the country prior to the next session. Apprehensive, however, as he was of any
14961495Mr. Tennyson
l. said, that if the time which had elapsed was the only obstacle in the way of the petition, the House might recollect that the other night they had voted 6,000l.Mr. Barham
 observed, that the greater portion of the people of Scotland were favourable to a moderate reform; and in compliance with the opinion of his constituents, he should vote for the present motion.Mr. Hume
 laid on the table of the House the followingMr. Hume
, without objecting to the end to be attained, suggested that the bill was open to two objections—1st. That by stripping the ceremony of all its religious part, it might be regarded with less reverence by the members of the church; and 2d, that the clergy might feel conscientious scruples in performing a ceremony which they were accustomed to consider as a religious one, thus degraded into a mere civil ordinance.Dr. Phillimore
14731472†14711470 observed, that the present did not belong to the class of subjects on which he was accustomed to address the House. Although it was not his intention to follow the hon. baronet through all the arguments which he had, for the eighteenth time during the last eighteen years, heard that hon. baronet advance, yet, as the subject was one which of late years had appeared to attract peculiar attention, as it was undoubtedly one of great importance, and as although since he had held a seat in the House, he had frequently voted, but never expressed his opinions on the subject, he felt anxious not to allow this great constitutional question to be decided without taking
14731472†14711470Mr. Grenfell
 said, he was friendly to the throwing open of corrupt boroughs, and extending the elective franchise to the hundreds, or transferring it to the northern counties.Mr. Grenfell
 said, he would uniformly support any member who brought forward the subject of reform, and the oftener it was recommended to the attention of the House the better. Every great authority for the last 150 years had recommended parliamentary reform. Many years had elapsed since that House had voted, that the influence of the Crown had increased, was increasing, and ought to be diminished. If that resolution was well founded then, was it not much more so now, when the system of corruption was so far extended and so openly avowed? We went to war with France, to prevent the then growing spirit of parliamentary reform. The question ought to be constantly before the House in some shape or other, till the grand end was attained. Me condemned the Foreign Enlistment bill, the prop of Old Spain against the liberties of the patriots in South America. If a reform had previously taken place, no minister would have dared to introduce such a bill into parliament.Mr. P. Moore
14931492149114901489forupon1488d.s1487148614851484 said:—Sir; the speech of the hon. gentlemen near me (Mr. Grenfell), appears, as far as the proceedings of this House have fallen under my view, to be at variance with his own conduct, and inconsistent with the vote he has declared his intention to give on this occasion. The hon. gentleman has contended, that all our present evils
14931492149114901489forupon1488d.s1487148614851484Mr. Alderman Waithman
 having moved the commitment,Mr. W. Smith
1505in toto, repeated the statement which he had made when he first proposed the measure, to show that an object, which was allowed to be desirable, was obtained in an unobjectionable manner; the relief granted to one class of dissenters being afforded without prejudice to any other class, or even to the most rigid friend of the church of England. A part of the ceremony was to be left out when certain persons requested it. In the part that remained of the ceremony, not one word was altered. The Romish dissenters, it was said, objected to the ceremony 1505in toto,Mr. W. Smith
148114801479de novo1478 could not help regarding
148114801479de novo1478Mr. Wilmot
 said.—If the hon. member thinks that such language is consistent with what he considers to be the order of the House, some apology will be due from me, for interrupting him.The Speaker
, after recapitulating the objections of Dr. Phillimore, observed, that the first of those objections appeared to him rather singular, since nothing could more tend to lessen and degrade a ceremony than the knowledge that persons conformed to what they did not believe, and uttered, under the form of devotion, words in which their hearts did not join, and to which in their consciences they felt invincible repugnance. The idea which gave weight to the ceremony, was the belief that it was a voluntary and conscientious declaration of the feelings, and a compulsory insincerity could only weaken the aid that religion and the law gave to this solemn engagement. He was rather alarmed at the principle contained in the second objection. The marriage ceremony, and the other rites of the church of England were established by the act of authority, and the power which ordained could require (though it would not do it without deliberation) that those ceremonies should not be performed in certain cases. Religion was the relation of man to his Creator, but an established church was the creature of civil policy.Sir J. Mackintosh
147714761475 stated, that he could have only one objection to the course pursued by the hon. baronet, and that related to the time when he introduced this motion, the session being so far advanced that a number of members were absent, not expecting a question of such magnitude would come under discussion, and who therefore lost the opportunity of giving the measure their support. He, however, had been one of those who thought that the question of reform had better be deferred, that the economists might make a fair experiment of their strength, and not have it in their power to say that they were weakened by an apple of discord being thrown amongst them by the reformers. Their campaign, however, had ended as he anticipated; they had failed in every attack on the admiralty, the ordnance, the war office, and the colonial and foreign department. His hon. friend, the member for Cork, although he had seen him gain difficult trophies in Egypt, Eylau and Friedland, had not been able to wrest a single snuff-box from the noble lord opposite. At length they were totally defeated and shattered to pieces by the chancellor of the exchequer, so that with difficulty they could form a new guard to check the progress of the conqueror, who pursued his advantages night and day without intermission. The economists would now see the prudence of combining their plans and advancing in parallel lines with the reformers. It would have been desirable, therefore, that the question should have been delayed until every man was at his post; but the hon. baronet had assigned as a reason the serious state of the country for not waiting till the next session, and if by the vote
147714761475Sir Robert Wilson
ll1513 observed, that if the present motion were agreed to, he knew not where the practice of lotteries for the disposition of private property could stop. It could not possibly be imagined that any disposition existed to make an exception to any proposition, because that proposition was agreeable to the wishes, or favourable to the interests of a prince of the blood; but really, the present proposition was of this peculiar nature, that he was the more disposed to resist it because he would not in such a case consent to establish a precedent in the person of a member of the royal family. The worthy alderman had indulged in a panegyric upon the exertions of the royal duke to promote the interest of public charities. But no judicious friend of his royal highness could possibly advert to those exertions, with the view of making an appeal
ll1513Lord Castlereagh
l.;1514 expressed his regret that the case of the duke of Kent did not meet with more attention from that House. But whatever might be the fate of the motion under discussion, he trusted that the mover and seconder would not fail to bring forward, early in the next session, some distinct proposition for compensating the duke for the various losses which he had suffered in the service of his country. The whole of the conduct of this illustrious personage was what became an honest and patriotic Englishman. Such was the partiality of his royal highness to England, that he had come home, much
l.;1514Mr. Forbes
 expressed a hope that the hon. member would withdraw his motion, as the discussion of such a motion could only serve to cast discredit upon the royal family.Lord Lowther
 disclaimed the idea of bringing forward this measure with any such view as that of rewarding the duke of Kent for his exertions in the cause of public charity. For those exertions, his royal highness was entitled to a higher and more dignified reward. But his royal highness himself had, in fact, no concern whatever in bringing forward this measure; for it was pressed upon him (alderman W.) by others; namely, by the trustees for liquidating the duke's debts. The worthy alderman concluded with expressing his consent to withdraw the motion.Mr. Alderman Wood
 was glad to find that the illustrious personage alluded to was no party to a measure of this nature.Lord Castlereagh
ll brought up the report of the committee on the duke of Kent's petition, which stated that the petitioner had not obtained any parliamentary allowance till he was 32 years of age, and that, previously to that time he had been put to considerable expenses and subjected to heavy losses in Canada, and compelled to contract considerable debts, and to raise money by way of annuity; but that by subjecting himself to the strictest economy, and living in foreign parts, he had reduced his debts to 70,000llMr. Alderman Wood
1509l said, that in moving to bring in a bill be should offer a few words. This lottery was not open to the objections to which, lotteries in general were liable. The property to be disposed of in this case was of the full value stated in the petition. He. was assured from the highest authority that it had cost 120,0001509lMr. Alderman Wood
llll1512llllllllll1511l1510 hoped the House would give him the opportunity of offering that explanation which the part he had taken enabled him to give, both of the motives which actuated his royal highness to take the course he had done, and the measures which had been actually taken. Having enjoyed the friendship of his royal highness for ten years, and been intimately acquainted with his public conduct and private affairs, what he should offer as to the transactions of that period, he could pledge himself for, and he should state no prior transactions that could be contravened. On the 10th ult. (said Mr. Hume) I waited on the chancellor of the exchequer to inform him, that the duke of Kent had been advised to apply to parliament for leave to allow his trustees to dispose of his house and lands at Castle-bar-hill, by lottery. The chancellor desired a memorial to be laid before the Treasury by the duke for their sanction. This was done, and by orders of the Prince Regent referred to the lord chancellor and others of the privy council, who disapproved of the plan, alleging that it would be a most dangerous precedent. A second memorial was presented with like success, and the chancellor candidly informed the gentlemen who waited on him that they would leave the bill to the House. If the decision had been founded on fact, he should have bowed to the decision: but he contended, that the precedent of the Adelphi, Pickett-street, and Sunder-land bridge lottery were in point, all to enable trustees to raise money to pay off
llll1512llllllllll1511l1510Mr. Hume
 felt it his duty to resist this proposition, upon this ground, that its adoption would serve to create a very improper precedent; for if the duke of Kent were authorised by parliament to dispose of his property by lottery, what was to prevent any individual from applying to parliament for an act to authorize the disposition of his private property in the same way, instead of resorting to the ordinary means of sale in the general market; and the consequences likely to result from the toleration of such a system, were of such a nature as he did not think it necessary to describe.Mr. Grenfell
 Indictments were considered in a committee. After which, the House being resumed, the minutes of evidence were ordered to be laid on the table.The Grampound Bribery
 called the attention of the House to the conduct of Alexander Lambe, a witness examined in the case of Grampound, with which the House had recently been occupied. This witness had not only contumaciously refused to answer several; questions put to him, but had also taken upon him to destroy a material document respecting the late election, after his first examination. It would be necessary for the House to adopt some measure to prevent the recurrence of acts of this nature; otherwise, at every step of an examination, a witness would feel himself at full liberty to destroy any document, however material to the investigation. The hon. gentleman concluded with moving, "That Alexander Lambe, esq., since his first examination before a Committee of the whole House, to whom it was referred to consider of the extracts of indictments against sir M. M. Lopez and others, for bribery at the late election for Grampound, having destroyed a material document relative thereto, has been guilty of wilful suppression of evidence, and a high contempt of the authority of this House."Mr. Wynn
nom. con.15171516 said, that with respect to the case before the House, as the greater part of the evidence had long been
nom. con.15171516Lord John Russell
"Alexander Lambe, this House yesterday came to a resolution, That you, since your first examination before a committee of the whole House, to whom it was referred to consider of the Extracts of Indictments against sir. M. M. Lopez and others, for bribery at the late election of burgesses to serve for the borough of Grampound, having destroyed a material document relative thereto, have been guilty of wilful suppression of evidence, and a high contempt of the authority of this House.ߞThis is an offence of the most serious and grave nature, both as affecting the dignity of this House and the ends of justice; and had this offence been committed by you with the deliberate intention of impeding the examination now in progress, it would have been the bounden duty of this House to have punished it with the utmost severity. But in proportion as this act, if committed with such a view and such intentions, would have been disgraceful to yourself, and in contempt of every feeling of principle and honesty, in the same proportion this House is most anxious to attribute your conduct to other motives which may have actuated you, and which may explain and extenuate; and believing that the destruction of this instrument has been committed not with any intention to interfere with its proceedings, or to defeat the ends of justice, but that it originated solely from strong impressions upon your mind of the professional confidence reposed in you by your client; with this impression, and this alone, the House is prepared to extend to you its lenity, and to order that you be now reprimanded, and discharged.ߞIn obedience, then, to the commands of the House, I now reprimand you, and acquaint you, that you are discharged, upon payment of your fees." was brought to the bar, where he received the following reprimand from the Speaker, and was discharged out of custody, paying his fees:
"Alexander Lambe, this House yesterday came to a resolution, That you, since your first examination before a committee of the whole House, to whom it was referred to consider of the Extracts of Indictments against sir. M. M. Lopez and others, for bribery at the late election of burgesses to serve for the borough of Grampound, having destroyed a material document relative thereto, have been guilty of wilful suppression of evidence, and a high contempt of the authority of this House.ߞThis is an offence of the most serious and grave nature, both as affecting the dignity of this House and the ends of justice; and had this offence been committed by you with the deliberate intention of impeding the examination now in progress, it would have been the bounden duty of this House to have punished it with the utmost severity. But in proportion as this act, if committed with such a view and such intentions, would have been disgraceful to yourself, and in contempt of every feeling of principle and honesty, in the same proportion this House is most anxious to attribute your conduct to other motives which may have actuated you, and which may explain and extenuate; and believing that the destruction of this instrument has been committed not with any intention to interfere with its proceedings, or to defeat the ends of justice, but that it originated solely from strong impressions upon your mind of the professional confidence reposed in you by your client; with this impression, and this alone, the House is prepared to extend to you its lenity, and to order that you be now reprimanded, and discharged.ߞIn obedience, then, to the commands of the House, I now reprimand you, and acquaint you, that you are discharged, upon payment of your fees."Mr. A. Lambe
, in rising to propose that the House should agree to this measure without delay, expressed the gratification which he knew the illustrious individual in the exercise of regal authority in this country experienced at exercising the present gracious prerogative of sovereignty. It was highly gratifying to those who were connected with that part of the empire to which the measure especially referred, to contemplate that tranquil state which rendered the present proposition so advisable. He repeated, that it was highly gratifying to the illustrious representative of the sovereign to consult, by this act, the feelings of one of the most illustrious families of which the empire could boast; and to him (lord C) who, in his official character in Ireland, had been the painful witness of the circumstances out of which the proceeding that the proposed bill went to overturn arose, it was extremely gratifying to be the humble instrument of proposing to the House a measure, the adoption of which would, he trusted, assist in the consummation of that for which every good and honest mind must wishߞthe oblivion of all the circumstances in which the necessity for it originated.Lord Castlereagh
1537 could not refrain from expressing his sense of this gracious act on the part of his royal highness. It was a truly gracious and noble act, con-
1537Lord W. Fitzgerald
 congratulated the House and the country on the introduction of the present bill, which he characterized as an act, which although one of justice, yet evinced a magnanimous feeling on the part of the Prince Regent, that entitled him to the warmest attachment and gratitude [Hear, hear!].Sir F. Burdett
 also expressed his unequivocal approbation of the proposed measure.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
1536153515341533153215311530l1529152815271526¶152515241523152215211520¶1519 brought up the report of the committee on the Criminal Laws, which was ordered to lie on the table.ߞSir James then rose, and spoke to the following effect:ߞIa moving that this report be
1536153515341533153215311530l1529152815271526¶152515241523152215211520¶1519Sir James Mackintosh
 said, that no incitement was wanting to induce his majesty's government to use their utmost efforts for the abolition of the slave trade, though he was far from objecting to the motion as an expression of the sense of the House. Though he was unwilling to repress any expression of feeling, it would not be just to Portugal not to state that the time during which she had stipulated for the continuance of the slave trade (eight years), had not elapsed; so that she could not yet be accused of a direct breach of promise, nor had she finally refused to abolish the slave trade. During the period of eight years, she could not be accused of injustice. The declaration of the powers at Aix-la-Chapelle had been sent to the court of Brazil, but no answer had yet been received. He was convinced the French government was anxious for the execution of its own laws, as they had sent out considerable squadrons to the coast of Africa for that purpose. He assured the House, that nothing could exceed the earnest wishes of the Prince Regent for the accomplishment of the objects of the Address.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that if ever there was a case in which the House was bound to interfere, either from a regard to its own consistency, or for carrying into effect that most moderate species of reform which so many members of it (though hostile to any general measure) had expressed themselves anxious to have adopted, he did not see how they could avoid pursuing the same course, in the instance of Camelford, which they had with respect to other boroughs, wherein the same practices had been detected. It should be recollected, that at Penryn, which the House had so justly visited with its condemnation, the report of the committee had been confined to a few cases of individual bribery; whereas here, we have the collective sentiments of two committees in the same sessionߞthe former, as to the general corruption of the borough, and the latter, as to the persons who had been the principal actors in these disgraceful scenes. His hon. friend had argued, that because Mr. Hallet had stated in evidence, that his corrupt proposal to the electors of Camelford had not been accepted, it was therefore to be presumed that they were altogether innocent; for his own part, he could draw no such conclusion, nor, when he considered the very suspicious circumstances under which Mr. Hallett came before them, and the manner in which he had given that evidence, could he place any great reliance on his testimony in this case. He thought the House could not hesitate a moment as to the necessity of withholding the writ till next session, that we might then effectually prosecute that inquiry which the facts before us so imperiously called for.Lord Ebrington
1539 expressed his decided concurrence in the opinion of the noble lord with regard to the propriety of transferring the right of voting from boroughs convicted of general corruption, for he could not conceive the justice of still leaving the right of voting to those who had abused that right by the grossest corruption, which must be the case ac-
1539Lord Normanby
 said, he had heard the latter part of the noble lord's speech with great satisfaction, and did hope if these boroughs were disfranchised, that Manchester and Birmingham would take their place in the representation, and not the adjacent hundreds. Perhaps there could be no instance in which this hundred system would appear more strikingly absurd than this of Camelford. Camelford was made a free borough by Richard, king of the Romans, in 1259; It is not even a parish: Lanteglos, the parish in which it is situate, contains, by the last population returns, only 1,100 inhabitants, It never sent members to parliament till the last year of Edward 6th, when the duchy of Cornwall being in the Crown, and the Commons having refused to pass the bills of attainder against the adherents of Somerset, Dudley, duke of Northumberland, dissolved the parliament, sent a circular to the sheriffs, stating whom they were to return, and first summoned nine Cornish boroughs, of which Camelford was one, the mayor, eight aldermen, and ten freemen being the only voters; and Camelford, now before the House a second time the same session, is situated in a hundred, which includes another borough of the like description, whilst there are eight boroughs in the three hundreds adjoining. He could hardly avoid the remark, that the House had been referred to the reign of queen Elizabeth as the purest period of our parliamentary history, whilst, in fact, the duchy of Cornwall still remaining in the Crown, queen Elizabeth summoned seven more Cornish boroughs, in addition to those first receiving precepts under Edward 6th, making part of 31 boroughs, added to the representation during her reign, and every one boroughs of nomination. Now, the first precedent of throwing a borough to the hundreds being so extremely modern, as well as so perfectly anomalous, and the introduction of important places to the right of furnishing representatives to parliament supported by so long a series of precedents, as, for example, the Welsh counties and towns in the reign of Henry 8th; Durham so late as that of Charles 2nd.—Mr. Gurney
1540bona fide, here rose to order, remarking that the question into which the hon. member was entering, was not yet ripe for discussion, and in order that the inquiry should be really 1540bona fide,Lord Castlereagh
 said, he must confess that he had been considerably out of order in alluding to what had passed in former debates; but if any more of these boroughs were to be disfranchised, he did consider the subsequent proceedings of the House of such extreme importance, in the present state of public opinion, that he was anxious to express his hope that the course would be taken which, in his mind, could alone lead to any advantage, and the only one defensible on any ground either of reason, or ancient precedent.Mr. Gurney
 rose to obtain leave to bring in a bill for the purpose of continuing the act now in existence for a limited term. The House was aware, that the new bill, prepared by a committee of its own appointment, and approved after long and repeated discussions, by the House itself, had been rejected in another place. The general principle of that bill was one for rendering the administration of justice with respect to insolvent debtors analogous to that of the bankrupt laws. In the circumstances, however, under which the House was now placed, it appeared to him, that the most advisable course which could be pursued was, to pass a short bill, extending the duration of the present act till the expiration of three months after the commencement of the next session. The general object appeared to him so manifestly desirable, the evil of overflowing gaols and the demands of humanity and justice so obvious, that he could not doubt what would be the decision of the House. He then moved for leave to bring in a bill, for continuing, during a limited period, the acts of the 53rd, 54th, and 56th of his present majesty, relative to the law of Insolvent Debtors.Mr. Abercromby
 feared, that too many persons already in gaol were there as voluntary inhabitants, and thought it would be much more expedient to let the present act die a natural death.Sir W. Curtis
1541 conceived that no ground whatever had been laid for the course proposed. The committee that sat during the present session, had received evidence which clearly established all the grievances complained of in the various petitions winch had been presented to the
1541Mr. Waithmun
 said, that when he found that if no new law could be perfected, the consequence must be a return to the old, with all its acknowledged inconveniences, he could not hesitate to give his support to the present motion.Lord Castlereagh
 declared, that he felt a little sore at the manner in which the old law had been treated, nor was he satisfied with the reasons assigned for renewing the present act. Under all the circumstances, however, he should vote for the motion.Mr. Calcraft
 declared his aversion to any continuance of the existing law. Parliament had temporised too long upon this subject, and he should certainly prefer a return for a limited time to the old system.Mr. G. Lamb
 disapproved of any adjournment till some understanding on this subject had been come to with the other House.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 was strongly disposed to concur with the sentiments of his noble friend who had just sat down. It was impossible to overlook the evil consequences of the law as it now stood.Mr. Courtenay
cessio bonorum. considered the present measure the best, under existing circumstances, that could be suggested, for carrying into effect the petitions of the people. The wish of the public was, either that the present law should be amended, or that a new one should be enacted; but they did not expect that this was to be done in a day. Sufficient time must be allowed to enable the legislature to give effect to this wish; and that time, the measure of his hon. and learned friend was calculated to afford. If we once got under the operation of the old law, we should find it extremely difficult to revert to that principle which constituted the best part of the present act—the cessio bonorum.Sir James Mackintosh
 said, that the measure of his hon. and learned friend met with his entire approbation.Sir R. Wilson
, after stating that he thought some further inquiry relative to the borough of Camelford necessary, in consequence of the reports of two committees, and that there would not be time in the present session to pursue and complete that inquiry, moved a resolution that the House would renew the investigation early in the next session, and that the Speaker should not issue his writ for a new election until 10 days after the next meeting of the House.Mr. D. W. Harvey
1538 argued against the resolution, contending, that the evidence of Mr. Hallet put an end to all imputation upon the two sitting members, and in a great degree relieved the borough from the general charge of corruption. He moved, as an amendment, that the report
1538Mr. Primrose
 thought that the special report of the select committee was fully warranted by the evidence, and that the two sitting members had been brought within the 49th Geo. 3rd: if the evidence against them was circumstantial, it was because Mr. Hallet and Mr. Harvey had kept out of the way.Mr. Tremayne
15461545"That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, to assure his royal highness, that we acknowledge, with becoming thankfulness, the zealous and persevering efforts which, in conformity with former addresses of this House, his royal highness has made for accomplishing the total annihilation of the African Slave Trade, by all the foreign powers whose subjects had hitherto been engaged in it:—That we also congratulate his Royal Highness on the success with which his efforts have been already attended; that guilty traffic having been declared, by the concurrent voice of all the great powers of Europe assembled in Congress, to be 'repugnant to the principles of humanity and of universal morality:'— That, consequently, on this declaration, all the states, whose subjects were formerly concerned in this criminal traffic, have since prohibited it; the greater part absolutely and entirely; some for a time, partially, on that part of the coast of Africa only which is to the north of the line: of the two states which still tolerate the traffic, one will soon cease to be thus distinguished; the period which Spain has solemnly fixed for the total abolition of the trade being near at hand: one power alone has hitherto forborne to specify any period when the traffic shall be absolutely abandoned:—That the United States of America were honourably distinguished
1546154515441543 said, that the object of his present motion was, that the efforts of his majesty's ministers should be renewed with those foreign powers that had formerly carried on the Slave Trade, but had passed laws for abolishing that trade, in order to induce those powers to take measures for the more effectually carrying the abolition into execution. In consequence of the communications made by his noble friend (Castlereagh) to the powers assembled at Vienna, one of the most forcible declarations ever penned was unanimously adopted by all the great powers at Vienna, denouncing the African slave trade, as contrary to every principle of humanity, and as one of the greatest practical evils that ever existed. There was now but one single power, Portugal, which had not declared the slave trade a mass of injustice and cruelty, and fixed a definite time for the termination of that trade. Spain bad abolished it absolutely to
15461545"That an humble Address be presented to his royal highness the Prince Regent, to assure his royal highness, that we acknowledge, with becoming thankfulness, the zealous and persevering efforts which, in conformity with former addresses of this House, his royal highness has made for accomplishing the total annihilation of the African Slave Trade, by all the foreign powers whose subjects had hitherto been engaged in it:—That we also congratulate his Royal Highness on the success with which his efforts have been already attended; that guilty traffic having been declared, by the concurrent voice of all the great powers of Europe assembled in Congress, to be 'repugnant to the principles of humanity and of universal morality:'— That, consequently, on this declaration, all the states, whose subjects were formerly concerned in this criminal traffic, have since prohibited it; the greater part absolutely and entirely; some for a time, partially, on that part of the coast of Africa only which is to the north of the line: of the two states which still tolerate the traffic, one will soon cease to be thus distinguished; the period which Spain has solemnly fixed for the total abolition of the trade being near at hand: one power alone has hitherto forborne to specify any period when the traffic shall be absolutely abandoned:—That the United States of America were honourably distinguished
1546154515441543Mr. Wilberforce
1547 said, that the motions needed no recommendation, and had it needed any, it could have had none more powerful and appropriate than the speech of his hon. friend. As to the conduct of Portugal on this question, it was impossible to speak at once with truth and decorum. She chose to hold herself in solitude in the civilized world, and alone in Europe, after concurring with others in the sentence of condemnation on the slave trade, continued to carry on indefinitely this detestable traffic. With respect to the United States of America, he had a perfect confidence that they were sincere in their declarations. It was within twelve months that England and the United States both passed their abolition laws, and history would not fail to record that two nations of English race, separated by the calamity of civil war, had, to the honour of their common blood and common liberty in one year, without previous agreement, performed this act of reparation to the principles of justice and humanity. It was more to the credit of the Americans that this had been done, considering they had slave holders in their legislature; but how much more would it redound to the credit of the Independent States of South America, where the slave holders also had supreme power, that in spite of their prejudices and their supposed interest, their first acts had been to abolish the slave trade. As to France, he was afraid that the colony of St. Louis was nothing but a factory of slave traders. Whether this conduct received any countenance at home he knew not, but he was convinced that a proper application to the French government, or even a knowledge of the fact in France, would go far towards the removal of this disgrace from the French name. Every friend of the human race must wish for the stability of the present government in France. The spirit, combined with order in their legislative pro-
1547Sir J. Mackintosh
15491548 rose, pursuant to notice, to move an address to the Prince Regent, for the more effectual abolition of the African Slave Trade. It was hardly necessary for him to tell their lordships, that, notwithstanding the hopes entertained by this country that the measures adopted for putting an end to the slave trade would be successful, those hopes were as yet far from being realized. It was still carried on, not only under the flag of those two powers who had not yet agreed to abolish it, but under the flags of those by which that detestable traffic was completely renounced. It was carried on to a very great extent under the flag of France, the government of
15491548The Marquis of Lansdowne
l.1550 said, he had to propose a grant for the purpose of enabling his majesty's government to assist unemployed workmen of this country in removing to one of our colonies. It had been the wish of his majesty's government first to try an experiment on a small scale, how far it might be possible to employ the surplus population of this country in one of our colonies, in such a-manner as might be advantageous to the people removed, and beneficial to the country. From the satisfactory result of this experiment, it was, that government were now desirous of trying the experiment on a larger scale. The colony selected was that of the Cape of Good Hope. The greater part of the persons disposed to emigrate from this country rather wished to go to the United States of North America, where government could give them no direct encouragement, or to the British colonies of North America. But with respect to the latter, his majesty's government—considering the inconvenience to which these persons would be subjected on their arrival in America, had selected the Cape of Good Hope as the colony to which emigration might be most advantageously directed. From the mildness of the climate and the fertility of the soil in some parts, a rapid and abundant return might reasonably be expected. That colony was also highly favourable to the multiplication of stock. The particular part of the colony selected was the south-eastern coast of Africa. It was at some distance from Cape Town. A small town was already built there. It was proposed to pay the expense of the passage, and at the same time to secure to the settler the means of employing his industry to advantage on his landing at the destined spot. But a small advance of money would be required from each settler before embarking, to be repaid
l.1550The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l.l.l.15551554 said, he did not mean to impute to the hon. baronet any intention to misrepresent, but after he had stated that he had taken the greatest pains in giving every possible accuracy to his resolutions, he had been much surprised to find how very inaccurate they were.
l.l.l.l.l.15551554Mr. Long
 said, it was a part of the plan that parishes should have the power of sending out persons who might be desirous of emigrating; but there ought to be nothing compulsory. When the parishes and the individuals chargeable on them were desirous, an opportunity would be afforded.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was surprised that labourers should be removed from this country, when there was so much waste land in it that might be cultivated to advantage. There were about 80,000 acres of waste land, on which both corn and flax might be grown.Mr. Alderman Wood
1551 approved of the grant. The right hon. gentleman had said, that persons wishing to settle in the colony must make a deposit in this country; he wished to ask him, if such people as the distressed manufacturers and labourers of Cork, who had not the means of making any deposit, might not be exempted from
1551Mr. Hutchinson
 was convinced that this country possessed within itself the means of employment for all its inhabitants, and that nothing more was necessary than to cultivate those lands which at present were waste.Mr. Williams
l.l.l.l.1559l.l.l. did not conceive that the resolutions had been fairly met. In 1796, the expenses of the office of secretary at war, with 19 clerks, amounted to 16,070l.l.l.l.1559l.l.l.Colonel Davies
156315621561l.l.l.l.1560 was convinced that unless reductions to a very considerable amount were speedily made in all the estimates and public expenditure great embarrassments were to be expected. The country was convinced that considerable reductions might be effected and had a right to expect that the exertions of government for the attainment of this object, should be proportioned to the distresses. No man could have read the finance reports of the last and the present year, or have examined with attention estimates, to the amount of several millions laid on the table a few months ago, without being convinced of the practicability of effecting very considerable reductions. He had, early in the session, attempted to draw the attention of the House to a strict investigation of such papers. From the extravagantly expensive system, long pursued by the British government, several disbursements sanctioned by time appeared necessary to the ministers of the day, whoever they might be; but which, he had no doubt, could be greatly diminished. He had many days since moved for returns relating to the Audit office at Lisbon, an establishment which might
156315621561l.l.l.l.1560Mr. Hutchinson
1564l., said, that instead of the expenses on the St. Helena station costing the country 500,0001564l.,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 begged to offer a few words on the counter statements which had been made to the resolutions. The House should recollect, that those resolutions had been drawn up without that official information which it was in the power of ministers only to give. But notwithstanding this, the hon. members opposite were unable to contradict the statements contained in them. It did not follow, that because the hon. baronet had made one or two trifling miscalculations, his statements were to be considered as altogether erroneous. That hon. member was entitled to the approbation of the country, from the manner in which he had brought forward those resolutions.Mr. F. Douglas
1558l.l. expressed his obligations to the hon. baronet for bringing forward his resolutions, and trusted that he would not be deterred from future inquiries by the criticisms which every man who talked of economy was exposed to from the bench opposite. The main resolutions had not been grappled with by the right hon. gentleman, that the revenue was collected at the enormous expense of 5,500,0001558l.l.Mr. Calcraft
 said, he was sorry ministers had not gone farther. Parishes having able-bodied men willing to work, chargeable on them, ought to be called on to subscribe sums towards removing a part of them to this or some other settlement, where their industry might provide them with a comfortable subsistence. He thought that if men under such circumstances were unwilling to emigrate, it might even be advisable to transport them without their consent. If the parishes would but contribute the money they were forced to pay to these persons for one or two years, from the excellent climate of the Cape, and the fertility of the soil, the greatest advantages could not fail to be the result.Mr. Hume
1553l.l.1552 said:—Mr. Speaker; In rising to move the order of the day for proceeding with the adjourned debate upon the Resolutions which I have laid before the House, concerning the Retrenchment of the public Expenditure [see p. 1429], I do not feel that it is necessary for me to make any observations upon the general question of the finances of the country; I shall confine what little I have to say, to explain, very shortly, the motives which have induced me to consider it a matter of public duty, not to suffer the session to close without calling the attention of the House to those parts of our public expenditure which bought immediately to be reduced. It has appeared to me, that a constant effort has been made by his majesty's ministers to establish an impression, that no important reduction could be made in our present scale of office establishments. The committee of finance, who have been the mere organ of government, in their first report of this session, in estimating what savings may be made in the expenditure of 1820, though they enumerate several items, do not say one word concerning the expenses for collecting the revenues, or any of the civil departments. The chancellor of the exchequer, when he opened his resolutions to the House, and went into a calculation to show how we might, in time, have a sinking fund of eight millions, took no credit for any retrenchment to be made in the expense for managing the public income and expenditure; and the noble lord, in his various financial statements, has been equally silent upon this subject. This omission to notice the possibility of reducing the expenses of the public de-
1553l.l.1552Sir Henry Parnell
¶l.l.1568l.1567l.l.1566l.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1565 spoke in reply as follows: —If, Sir, I felt myself under the necessity of seeking for an excuse for any errors in the resolutions, I could readily have found it in the assertion, that at least 100 folio volumes ought to have been carefully read by me, to prepare myself for the task of framing these resolutions. But, Sir, after all the loud and repeated assertions of the right hon. gentleman and noble lord opposite, I do not find myself in a situation, to require me to make any excuse for the incorrectness of these resolutions. On the contrary, when I consider how many statements of figures they contain, I am surprised to find that I have escaped without more of them having been shown to be inaccurate. What, Sir, is the actual result of all that has been said against them? Why, that two of them are inaccurate; one relating to the office of secretary at war, the other relating to the Pay office. But before I proceed to make some remarks upon the War office and Pay office, I must stop to notice the tone and manner which the noble lord has thought proper to assume in delivering his sentiments upon these resolutions. He has not been satisfied with observing upon the inaccuracy in the 26th resolution, which I myself corrected, but he has thought proper to infer with an appearance of great triumph over me, from the in accuracy of this resolution, that all the others were equally incorrect, and that I had proved myself incapable of the task which I had undertaken. Nothing was more easy nor is more common, than for a gentleman at the head of a very extravagant department, to get up and make assertions of this kind and, knowing how much weight a confident manner and a show of superior official information will carry with them, to attempt to impress upon the House such inferences which could not be sustained by facts, or a plain examination of the question. But the profusion and waste of public money in the public departments is too visible and notorious to allow these expedients to succeed, and though I may be exposed to the censure of the noble lord, I shall not be turned aside from my object, nor do I feel, from any thing that he has said, that I have any reason to doubt my being able to show that there exists in his office, as well as in every other office concerned in
¶l.l.1568l.1567l.l.1566l.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1565Sir H. Parnell
 entered into a statement to show, that the enormous apparent increase in the Dock yard establishments, was to be attributed, not to a real increase in the expense of the civil establishments of the navy, but to changes in the mode of paying the officers. The changes consisted in an increase of salaries in commutation for fees, perquisites and gratuities, and in bringing into the estimates many individuals who were before paid on the Dock-yard books, and consequently remunerated out of the sums voted in the gross for the building and repair of ships. The offices of measurers and timber masters had been created during the period comprised in the resolutions. These and all the other changes had been adopted, in consequence of the recommendation of the commissioners of naval inquiry and revision, and for the sake of economy. The increase of the establishments was apparent, but the good which had been done was hidden in the reports which had recommended these changes. If the hon. baronet had read the fifty folio volumes which contained them, he would not have proposed one of these resolutions [a laugh]. The hon. member then read three resolutions, which he said he should move if the original resolutions were not rejected. They comprised a statement of the facts which he had mentioned, and concluded by an observation, that comparisons of the establishments at different times, unaccompanied by these explanations, were calculated to mislead the public mind.Sir T. B. Martin
l.l.1557l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.s.l.l.1556 wished to make a few observations on the resolutions before the House, and also on a subject in some manner connected therewith—he meant the arrangements as to half-pay, which the ministers had pledged themselves to make. It had been his intention to have introduced into the Appropriation act a clause to omit the oath which officers receiving half-pay were now required to take; and it was his fault that he had not informed himself of the stage
l.l.1557l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.s.l.l.1556Lord Palmerston
5958575655545352 rose to move an Address of Thanks. He said, that, approving as he did of the measures pursued by his majesty's government, and feeling it his duty, under existing circumstances, to avow his sentiments, he rose with much pleasure upon the present occasion to move an address, in answer to the speech from the throne. In doing this he trusted the House would extend to him that indulgence which they usually showed to a person, like himself, inexperienced in public speaking, and every way inadequate to the important task he had taken upon himself to discharge. He should feel it necessary, in the progress of what he was about to say, to offer a few observations upon the variety of topics which formed the subject of the speech from the throne. Unaccustomed to public debate, and of course to that accuracy of language acquired by habit and experience, he felt apprehensive he should not be able to express himself with all the clearness he desired. The first subject alluded to in the speech from the throne was one upon which no difference of opinion could arise, he meant the lamented continuation of his majesty's illness. Upon this there could be only one feeling, that of profound regret. The House, he was assured, would be unanimous in their accordance with this part of the speech. In calling upon them to express such a sentiment, it was impossible at the same time not to make some allusion to the moral and religious character for which their revered sovereign was, at every period of his life, distinguished. Though afflicted, and labouring under so awful a visitation, he still hoped he would long remain; and that the examples of domestic and public virtues which he had at all times set, would impress the minds of those who revered him, with a desire to follow in the same course. In thus adverting to his majesty's virtues, above all to his habitual and exemplary attention to the sacred duties of religion, every one, who paid any attention to late events, must reflect with sorrow and apprehension, that feelings of the most opposite nature were now attempted to be impressed on the
5958575655545352Mr. Somers Cocks
908988 seconded the amendment. At a time of peril like the present, he observed, it was the duty of every man to stand forward and deliver his opinions as to the best mode of removing those evils which were so generally allowed to exist. On this occasion, he assured the House, that he was not
908988The Marquis of Tavistock
1051041031021011009998l.97prima facie,969594939291 rose. He began by observing, that there never was a crisis in which ministers felt a more awful responsibility than they did at the present moment; and never was a responsibility more awful than that which they were now obliged to take upon themselves in discharge of their duty to their king and to their country. Nothing but an imperious sense of the necessity of such a measure
1051041031021011009998l.97prima facie,969594939291Lord Castlereagh
 observed, that it was he who had made the statement respecting the alleged attack on the woman, in which major Cochrane was said to have interfered. He had found afterwards that the whole was a mistake, and he would most willingly have given the contradiction to it, if it had not been made by major Cochrane.Mr. Coke
*128127126vivâ voce125124123122121120*** *128127126vivâ voce125124123122121120***Mr. Plunkett
135 rose, amid loud cries for the question, and for an adjournment. He congratulated the House on the general admission that the meeting at Manchester, on the 16th of August, was illegal; and he imagined that the hon. and learned gentleman who spoke last must have forgotten that the efforts of the yeomanry were not directed, in the first
135The Attorney-General
108107106 said, that as a member of the grand jury whose conduct
108107106Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
pro aris et focis.6766And lose the name of action."With this regard their currents turn away,"Enterprises of great pith and momentThan fly to others that they know not of.""—Rather bear the ills they have,656463626160 said:—In rising, Sir, to second the motion of my hon. friend, I feel that I have to appeal to the more than ordinary indulgence of the House, inasmuch as I now, for the very first time in my life venture to address any public assembly, much less one like the present, in which my inferiority is so evidently apparent; nor, can I hold out as an excuse for my presumption in presenting myself to their notice any hopes of recompensing them for their time and their patience by force of language or extent of information which those of my predecessors on this duty may have afforded, who have had leisure and opportunity of devoting their early years to those studies which are more essentially useful to a member of parliament; mine has been passed in a profession which did not afford me such advantages, and in the prosecution of duties not at all analogous to those which I have now taken upon myself to perform. I think, Sir, there never was a time in which it would be more fortunate that unanimity in this House should prevail, than the present. The eyes of the country, and almost of the world, are turned upon us to learn our sentiments at this momentous period, when a party, humble, it is true, in the origin and the importance of its votaries, but not at all mean, if we may judge of their proceedings, in the abilities of their leaders, whoever they are, have, by a series of the almost unwarrantable exertions of their rights, created so great a ferment in the country, and assumed a position, so formidable,
pro aris et focis.6766And lose the name of action."With this regard their currents turn away,"Enterprises of great pith and momentThan fly to others that they know not of.""—Rather bear the ills they have,656463626160Mr. Edward Cust
87868584838281807978777675post obit74737271706968 rose. He said, that the ordinary manner in which a speech from the throne was received was, that no gentleman should oppose the address unless it contained something directly committing the House. He had little inclination, in the present instance, to deviate from the usual practice, especially after the construction that had been put upon the address by the hon. mover and seconder, from which it appeared, that all that was stated in the royal speech as assertion, would on some future occasion be made out by the papers to be presented to parliament. If those facts were not established, his temporary concurrence in what the address contained would of course be revoked. Although he might give his assent thus qualified to what had just been read from the chair, he felt called upon to say, that it did not comprise all that, under the circumstances of the country, it ought to have included. Looking at those circumstances, he felt that he was imperatively called upon to claim the attention of the House to an amendment he should in conclusion submit. He was as much aware as any man, indeed, more than many men who had not had the same parliamentary experience, of the inconvenience of offering an amendment on the first day of a session, because many persons who did not object to the matter of an amendment, resisted it merely because it was presented in that obnoxious shape; he should therefore have abstained, had he felt that the important object he had in view could be otherwise as satisfactorily
87868584838281807978777675post obit74737271706968Mr. Tierney
 again rose, and said, that he had no wish to leave out any part of the original address: he would adopt the whole of it, and would content himself with proposing, that his own amendment should be received as an addition to it.Mr. Tierney
 here observed, that his remarks referred not to the House but to the party.Mr. Stuart Wortley
 here interrupted the learned gentleman and said, that the declaration was drawn up in such a way as not to pledge the persons signing it to a particular vote for inquiry.Mr. Stuart Wortley
111110 said, that after the appeal which had been made to him by his noble friend, he felt it his duty to offer a few observations. He admitted that he had offered to him, that if they (the requisitionists) would agree to the declaration, he would endeavour to persuade his friends to assent to the resolutions. In this he had done nothing more than merely say, he would endeavour to persuade them, which was all he could promise. This was done at Wakefield; and on the next day, to prevent any misapprehension, he put the proposition down in writing. He asked him in effect—Will you throw off the support of those who have thus agreed to this offer? Will you, without forfeiting any principle which you have ever avowed, throw us off, and only support those who have really no other object than the injury of the constitution? With respect to the address which had been moved, he was glad to perceive that there was no opposition to it. The object of the right hon. gentleman seemed to be, to assent to this address, on the ground that an inquiry should take place into the proceedings at Manchester. Now, he had no objection to inquiry; but he conceived that of all the places where it could take place, the bar of that House would be the worst. He did not, and would not shrink from the avowal of this opinion; and he believed that but for the shuffling of some of those persons who were concerned in the transactions, an inquiry would have taken place
111110Mr. Stuart Wortley
.—Then I beg leave to move that the House do now adjourn.Mr. Hume
 rose amidst loud cries of "Question, question." He said, that, in order to give every member an opportunity of stating his opinion on this question, which, at that late hour, it was impossible to do, he would move an adjournment of the debate.Mr. Hume
.—That this debate be adjourned to this day.Mr. Hume
136 was in possession of the House. He objected to its yielding to the clamour out of doors by concurring in the amendment. He insisted that the great body of the nation, at least the great body of the thinking part of it, approved of the steps the magistrates of Manchester had taken, and would be dissatisfied if inquiry at the bar were instituted. He knew that the House of Commons acted, in many instances, as the grand inquest of the nation; yet when gentlemen considered that they would be called on to investigate the conduct of the magistrates in their official capacity, and that in so doing they would be obliged to examine men, not on oath at the bar—men too, it should be observed, who professed the new system of morality, who defied the laws of God and man—perhaps they would pause before they determined to exercise those functions, by agreeing to the amendment. With respect to the transactions at Manchester on the 16th of August, he felt as deeply concerned at the circumstances of that unfortunate day as any gentleman possibly could; but, if he asked himself how the peace of the country was to be preserved, the answer must be, that if they assented to any such motion as the present, and thus sanctioned the proceedings of those bad men, who wished to produce anarchy and confusion, it would be the means of creating more discord and bloodshed than any other measure
136Mr. Wilberforce
—What does the hon. member move?The Speaker
.—I beg leave to submit the difficulty that arises on this question. The House has already decided that this debate should not be adjourned.The Speaker
 then read the original address, and was proceeding to state, that in lieu of part of the original address, it had been proposed to insert an amendment, whenThe Speaker
 said, that among the many extraordinary novelties which he had heard that night, there were none which gave him more surprise than part of the speech of the hon. member who had just concluded. That hon. gentleman had stated, that no inquiry which he had seen conducted at the bar of that House had ever ended but with disgrace; that one of the greatest functions of an important branch of the legislature could not be exercised but with disgrace.Sir James Mackintosh
119118117116‡115114113 resumed.—He protested that every thing of judicial knowledge which he possessed was still more confounded by the explanation of the hon. gentleman. It was hardly possible to imagine any thing more strange than this conduct of the hon. gentleman. He, according to his own admission, stated, that he seemed to agree in York to a principle which he at the same time intended to defeat in London. Did he mean at that time that the inquiry to which he should give his assent should be a judicial one? If he did, was it that the House of Commons should prosecute the inquiry in a court of law? a proposition which, when considered as made at a county meeting, was almost too absurd to be supposed to have existed in the mind of any. But, it the hon. gentleman had meant by inquiry an investigation by parliament, that was clear and intelligible. Yet, how did he now strive to get rid of it? It had been objected to his right hon. friend that he was not decisive in his amendment. He (sir J. Mackintosh) conceived him decisive and explicit. His right hon. friend was at all times so clear in his reasoning, that it was impossible to mistake him. He denied also that the amendment or the observations which accompanied it, were of a vague character. They spoke a disposition to conciliate, and by that conciliation to render coercive measures unnecessary. If the noble lord (Castlereagh) was not satisfied with the observations of his right hon. friend, would he attend to
119118117116‡115114113Sir J. Mackintosh
112 continued—The explanation of the hon. gentleman did not alter the view which he had taken of this extraordinary assertion. What could the hon. gentleman have meant but that the disgrace would attach to the House? The very assertion itself was used to show that no inquiry ought to take place in the House. And why? Because, forsooth, no inquiry had been conducted by that House without disgrace. What was it whether the disgrace of an inquiry fell upon A, B, or C; it was still, according to the argument of the hon. gentleman a disgrace, caused by an inquiry at the bar of the House. Now, he asserted, without fear of contradiction, that a more gross attack on the constitution was not contained in any of those seditious libels which had been alluded to, and in disgust for which he fully participated. What did it amount to? Why to this—that the House could not engage in one of its most important functions, that of inquiry,
112Sir J. Mackintosh
134133132 began by observing, that with many of the magistrates of Manchester he had long bees inhabits of intimacy, and every one of them he knew
134133132Mr. Scarlett
 now moved an adjournment of the debate. The motion being seconded by sir Robert Wilson, and supported by Mr. M. A. Taylor, a division took place: Ayes, 65. Noes, 453. Majority against an adjournment, 388—When the gallery was re-opened,Sir W. De Crespigny
109 had not intended to take any share in the present discussion, and was only induced to alter his intention, by having heard that something had been said during his absence from the House, respecting a communication between himself and those who acted with him at the York meeting, and some of those gentlemen who had signed the declaration in that county. It had been said, as he was informed, that the gentlemen who signed the requisition, had, in their communication with those who signed the declaration, refused an offer made which would unite all parties. The circumstances of that case he would state to the House, and he appealed to his hon. friend opposite (Mr. Stuart Wortley) for his recol-
109Lord Milton
 said, he rose to order, for the purpose of protesting against the vote of last night on the question of adjournment.Mr. V. Blake
137 observed, that if in the impression he had taken of the hon. gentleman's object, he was incorrect, the hon. gentleman had risen on the point of order, with the view of altering and
137The Speaker
said he rose to protest—Mr. Blake
 said, it was open to the hon. member to submit a resolution to the House, to prevent any repetition of such a proceeding; but it was requisite, either that a regular notice of such intention should be given, or, at all events, be made the subject of a separate consideration. But no question, save one of privilege, could precede the regular discussion fixed for the day.The Speaker
141140139138 then rose. He began by saying, that his object in pressing the motion of adjournment last night, was to afford many gentlemen the opportunity of meeting the statements and assertions of the noble lord opposite, with the information they possessed, and the conviction they entertained relative to the transactions which formed so prominent a part of his speech. He felt at the time the correctness of the course he pursued, and he was now convinced, that, when the papers presented that evening were read and distributed, the public would see the propriety of the proceeding. In the course of his speech, the noble lord had made statements, and had converted allegations into facts, upon which, from the information he had received, the noble lord would feel the necessity of affording the House further explanation. He was extremely sorry, that in the Speech from the throne, there were some points with which he could not agree; and he did consider it the duty of that House to pause before it gave to them its sanction. The Speech from the throne, stated, that a hostile spirit was abroad; he was sorry to acknowledge that such a spirit existed, but it was for the members of that House to reflect upon the causes which occasioned such discontent. What had they done during the last session to appease it? Had any effort been made to mitigate, much less remove, the accumulated sufferings which pressed so heavily upon the people? To what a situation had such a policy reduced the kingdom! Those hon. members who had so recently travelled through various parts, could bear evidence to the state of agitation that prevailed. The din of war was to be heard in every town!—military recruitings were to be seen every where, as if the
141140139138Mr. Hume
143142 said, he wished to say a few words in explanation. He was sure the hon. member who had just spoken had misrepresented him, not intentionally, but in consequence of having misconceived what he had stated on the preceding evening. He wished to set the hon. member right, rather because his observations affected the interests of others, than from any feeling personal to himself. He had last night stated, and he had good authority for doing so, that the meeting was dispersed in a manner not originally contemplated by the magistrates. Their intention was, that the assembly should be dispersed in the ordinary legal manner, the riot act being read, and every necessary form gone through. It was, as he had stated last night, the conflict with the troops at the hustings, which produced that state of things not originally contemplated by the magistrates. The hon. member had inferred, what was not warranted by the facts, that the meeting was dispersed without the interposition of the magistrates. That was not the case. He thought, however, that when the troops were attacked, they had a right to repel force by force, even if there were no magistrate present. The hon. member had accused him of not having produced proof of every fact he had stated. This would not have been consonant with the course he conceived it right to adopt. He contended, that the House of Commons wais not the place where such proof ought to be adduced, and he merely undertook to repel assertion by assertion, in order to-clear the characters of a number of individuals from the unjust attacks that had been made on them—attacks that were not warranted by the circumstances. The' hon. member had argued, that because he
143142Lord Castlereagh
 apologized to the House for presuming to occupy any portion of its valuable time; but, under the peculiar circumstances in which the country was placed, he conceived it to be the duty of every member of parliament to state, and to state openly, his reason for the vote he meant to give. He had heard the speeches of different gentlemen who had addressed the House, but none of them had given him so much surprise as that delivered by the right hon. gentleman on his right hand. He had absolutely treated the situation of the country with levity. Were they, then, to look lightly upon those who went about the country preaching doctrines destructive of the constitution? Were not persons of that class to be considered dangerous to the state? He could not look upon the machinations of persons of that description as matters of indifference. The occasion was one which demanded the prompt aid and assistance of every member of that House to put down the spirit of insubordination which prevailed to an alarming extent; and unless the government of the country were firmly supported at this crisis, neither he nor any other man could foresee or answer for the consequences that might follow.Earl Temple
151150149148147146145144 said, that having procured much information on the subject now under discussion, he was anxious to set the hon. member for Dover (Mr. B. Wilbraham) right on several points, which he had stated incorrectly on the preceding evening. Although he would not go the length of declaring that all the statements which had been presented to the 'public, with respect to the sufferers at Manchester, were true in every part, yet this he would say, that a case was substantially made out, which demanded inquiry; that case was supported by the evidence given on oath at the coroner's inquest, the proceedings at which, taken in short-hand he had read; it appeared from that evidence that great cruelty had been exercised. The hon. member for Dover began by stating, what he thought, on cooler judgment, he would reject, namely, that the persons who assembled at the meeting had no other object but that of plunder:
151150149148147146145144Mr. Bennet
 said, he would not again have intruded on the notice of the House, had it not been for certain statements which had just fallen from the hon. gentleman who had preceded him; and expressed a hope that the House would pardon him, if he transgressed a little beyond the limits of a mere explanation. He allowed that the hon. gentleman had one advantage over him: he (Mr. B. Wilbraham) had not been at Manchester at all this year, whereas the hon. gentleman had been there for some weeks.Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
 —I was not there for twenty-four hours.Mr. Bennet.
152 —He knew, however, that the solicitor who had conducted the prosecution at Oldharn had been frequently with the hon. member, and therefore that he was well acquainted with the evidence which had been given there. The hon. gentleman had applied
152Mr. Bootle Wilbraham.
 said, that he should not be doing his duty to the magistrates of the county which he had the honour to represent, if he did not declare, that they were as anxious as the House could be to have an inquiry instituted into their conduct; at the same time he thought it right to say, that this was not the proper court in which to institute such an inquiry. If their conduct was investigated in the proper court, and evidence regularly heard regarding it, he had no doubt but that they would come out of such investigation with the purest and most unsullied characters. The worthy member then detailed the proceedings of the magistracy of the two counties of Lancaster and Chester, previous to the 16th of August, as also the military array and tumultuous march of the reformers on that day; and argued, that if the magistrates had not dispersed them in the manner they did, they would have incurred a most dreadful responsibility. He also urged, that all the injuries sustained on that day ought not to be attributed to the magistracy, because, whenever a panic was created among a large multitude, the rush to escape was always attended by dangerous consequences.Mr. Egerton
153 said, that the best way in which he could characterise the dispersion of the meeting at Manchester by the magistrates and yeomanry, was by calling it an illegal attack upon an unarmed multitude [Coughing.] He trusted that the House, upon so momentous a question as the present, would support him, whilst he mentioned certain facts, which he pledged himself to be able to prove at the bar of the House. A venerable gentleman, a clergyman, had gone to the meeting out of curiosity and
153Sir W. De Crespigny
158157156ultima ratio Juris?155154 observed, that his majesty's ministers had asserted that the meeting on the 16th of August was illegal. But, not satisfied with asserting the illegality of the meeting, they had asserted that the illegality had been admitted by his hon. and learned friend who had spoken last night. He most unequivocally denied this assertion. No such admission had been made. He allowed that if the noble lord opposite established his statements, then the meeting was illegal; but the proof of those statements depended upon the re-result of an inquiry. If on inquiry the noble lord's statements should be made out, all would be satisfied. But inquiry was indispensable for this purpose. The
158157156ultima ratio Juris?155154Lord Nugent
160159 remarked, that the hon. members on the other side had set out by admitting the illegality of the meeting on the 16th of August, but having slept upon the matter, they now came down with a retraction of that admission. Notwithstanding this, however, he had no doubt but he should satisfy the House of the illegality of that meeting. Indeed, if any doubt were entertained on that point, the speech of the right hon. and learned member was calculated to remove it, notwithstanding that that speech was spoken of by another hon. and learned gentleman as special pleading. The hon. gentleman who had opened the debate tonight said, Where is the law? Where is the statute by which a meeting of the description of the 16th is declared illegal?—There was certainly no statute, if that was any satisfaction to the hon. gentleman; but his right hon. and learned friend had argued, that the meeting was illegal on the principles of the common law. But he wished to call to the recollection on the hon. gentleman, that letter which was written by Mr. Hunt, the head of the radicals—that itinerant orator, that mountebank, as the right hon. gentleman opposite had properly called him, before the meeting of the 16th. At Coventry, in his way to Lancashire, he wrote a letter, in which he asserted that it was necessary to make a demonstration of physical force. If the hon. gentleman knew that on the 9th it was intended to add a representative to the House from a borough, which now sent none—was that legal? Even the persons intending to assemble, themselves shrunk from that attempt; and on the 16th, the professed object for which the meeting was called, was conceived in different terms. But would any man say, that the subject discussed on the 16th was different from that proposed to be taken on the 9th? Was any man blind enough to say, that the same object which was proposed to be discussed on the 9th, was not in reality discussed on the 16th? With respect to the meeting on the 16th, it could not be denied but that on that day several thousand
160159Mr. Warren
165164163162161 said, that if he comprehended correctly the purport of the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman who had just sat down, that hon. and learned gentleman had certainly misunderstood his hon. friend. It did not follow, from the hon. and learned gentleman's own showing even, that the conduct of the magistrates of Manchester was justifiable; because, admitting that the meeting of the 16th of August was an illegal meeting, it did not necessarily result that it was a riotous one; for although in his own view of the law, a riotous meeting was therefore an
165164163162161Mr. Philips
167 confessed, that the course of observations which had been pursued by the hon. member for Shrewsbury, appeared to him to afford a practical illustration of the mischief of indulging in comments on the proceedings at Manchester. There was a judicial proceeding at this moment depending before the coroner, which might affect the lives of the individuals, against whom it was directed. That proceeding had been adjourned at a certain stage, evidence having been heard on the one side, and partially only on the other, in consequence of most unjustifiable conduct on the part of some persons, tending to pervert the due course of justice. It was a proceeding which had been for a time deferred. While, however, it was yet pending, possessing as it did so grave a character, an hon. member had thought himself justified in bringing before that House, and through the House before the public, a part only of such evidence, coupled with inflammatory statements, tending to defeat the ends of justice in a manner almost unprecedented. The whole system of proceeding adopted by honourable gentlemen on this occasion was most extraordinary. He felt a great satisfaction at the tone and temper adopted by the gentlemen on the other side of the House, with respect to the character of the meeting of the 16th, in the course of the debate of last night. For three long months the country had been told, in every form in which it could be told, that that was a peaceful and legal meeting; and that the magistrates were not justified in interfering with it. He felt, therefore, grateful for the observations of yesterday, by the gentlemen on the other side, beginning with the right hon. gentleman who opened the debate, in which it was implied at least that the meeting was illegal [Mr. Tierney here said across the table, "I never said any thing of the kind.'']—He had not said that the right hon. gentleman stated the meeting was illegal; but, from the course of observations pursued, it was quite clear, as he thought, what was passing in his mind on the subject. The hon. gentleman who succeeded him had not stated that it possessed a legal character. Of how much consequence would it have been to their argument, if they had stated it was a legal meeting. When, therefore, they did not lake that course, it was a fair presumption, they considered the meeting illegal. But an hon. and learned friend
167The Solicitor General
 rose to order. He appealed to the chair whether, after the explanation which he had given last night in consequence of what he supposed an involuntary misunderstanding of what he said, an}' hon. member was justified in repeating the misrepresentation.Mr. Scarlett
 said, that the interruption was irregular on the part of the hon. and learned gentleman. It certainly was not competent to any member to interrupt another member while speaking (though it was sometimes done by permission of the member speaking), in order to explain any misrepresentation, but it was competent afterwards to rise and give the explanation.Mr. Bankes
 concurred in his opinion. If for convenience, or by courtesy, an opportunity was allowed a member to correct any misunderstanding of a member addressing the House, this was to be thankfully received; but though it was an ordinary courtesy of the House to allow a misstatement or misapprehension to be instantly corrected, as often saving time and further misapprehension, this could not be demanded as a right by any member.The Speaker
prima facie173172171170169168 continued, if his hon. and learned friend had waited for the sequence of his assertion, he would have endeavoured to show that his hon. and learned friend was not warranted in the premises he had assumed. He had assumed that the meeting was not illegal on the statement of the noble lord. He would recall to the memory of his hon. and learned friend what that statement referred to. The facts mentioned by the noble lord all related to the events which had occurred after the meeting had assembled. His hon. and learned friend had thrown out an argument of an extraordinary character, viz. that an impression had gone abroad that the ministers were determined to put down meetings for redress of grievances by force of arms, and he had hinted that the legal advisers of the Crown might have been the cause of this determination. What did his hon. and learned friend find in the character of
prima facie173172171170169168The Solicitor-General
189l.l.188187par excellence186l.185184183182ex-parte181180179"Conjugis, invita peragam tamen omnia dextra.""Condere me jubeas, gravidaque in viscera Patri,"Pectore si fratris gladium juguloque Parentis178177a fortioridebut.176175174 said, it was not his intention to trespass long on the indulgence of the House; at the same time, he should feel himself guilty of a dereliction of his duty as a member of that House, if he did not accept the invitation which had been thrown out, and speak his mind freely and plainly on the very critical circumstances in which, it was admitted on all hands, the country was at present placed. With respect to the causes of the difficulties and the dangers of the country, he differed in opinion from many of the hon. gentlemen who had preceded him. The causes were now too obvious to escape the observation of any enlightened person not interested in that system of wasteful expenditure which had brought upon the country an amount of taxation which it was not able to bear, and to which some gentlemen ascribed that disaffection which was said to prevail in the country—a disaffection which, if it really existed (and he denied its existence to the extent alleged), must be remedied by measures very different from those which were likely to be now proposed. In cases of rooted evil like this, wise men would looked to the cause, while ignorant men
189l.l.188187par excellence186l.185184183182ex-parte181180179"Conjugis, invita peragam tamen omnia dextra.""Condere me jubeas, gravidaque in viscera Patri,"Pectore si fratris gladium juguloque Parentis178177a fortioridebut.176175174Sir Francis Burdett
prima facie191190 rose, to reply to several observations and arguments of the hon. baronet who just sat down. It was unjust to say that that House had, for the last quarter of a century, met only to infringe the rights of the people, whereas it was well known, that during that period it had been principally occupied in preserving liberty at home, and vindicating the freedom of Europe. He was sorry to find the hon. baronet was so well disposed to join in those outcries, which were truly characterized in the address then under consideration. The meeting at Manchester, considering the circumstances by which it was preceded and attended, was illegal even by the common law, which said that numbers were force, and force intimidation; and he contended that they were treasonable to the king and the constitution. The hon. baronet had adduced
prima facie191190Mr. Wynn
192 declared that he must vote against the amendment; not because he was averse to investigation, but because he thought it could be most effectually carried on in the courts of judicature, and because no assembly in the world appeared to him less fitted for conducting such an inquiry than the House of Commons, inasmuch as the examination was generally carried on in a desultory manner, and the evidence was not upon oath. He would refrain from giving any opinion on the legality of the conduct of the magistrates; but he would say that he conceived they behaved rashly in arresting Hunt at the time that they did, when they might have apprehended him either before or after the meeting, without creating any disturbance. He would go as far as any man in allowing the full right of the subject to meet and petition; but he thought that there could be no se-
192Sir John Sebright
 said, that he could not give a silent vote on the occasion, and he owed an explanation the more, as, however habituated he was to respect his right hon. friend, he could not support his amendment. He objected to the amendment, not because he was averse to inquiry, but because an opportunity would afterwards occur for discussing it. He was of opinion, that nothing short of a parliamentary investigation would satisfy the country; but he thought with his hon. friend who had just spoken that the revolutionary faction of the radicals ought to be opposed; and that, therefore, any qualification of the address might tend to weaken that opposition to their designs which was therein pledged. He entirely concurred in the language of the address, although he thought that ministers had exceedingly misconducted themselves, and in nothing more glaringly than in the dismissal of that virtuous and patriotic nobleman, lord Fitzwilliam.The Hon. Mr. Lyttelton
196They195194193*** began by saying, that, unusual as was the course which had been pursued the preceding night in consenting to the adjournment of a debate on the
196They195194193**Mr. Canning
 rose to order, and said, that the imputation of a motive, such as that stated by the right hon. gentleman, was disorderly.Mr. Lyttelton
 observed, that to impute a motive was certainly disorderly; but, in his apprehension, the right hon. gentleman did not put his argument with that intention.The Speaker
Vos ne populo Romano deese videamini providete! Obsessa fascibus et telis impiœ conjurationis vobis supplex manus tendit patria comtnunis. Vobis se, vobis vitam omnium civium, vobis arcem et capitolium, vobis aras penatium, vobis mums atque vrbis tecta, vobis templa deorum atque delubra commendat."Vos ne populo Romano deese videamini providete! Obsessa fascibus et telis impiœ conjurationis vobis supplex manus tendit patria comtnunis. Vobis se, vobis vitam omnium civium, vobis arcem et capitolium, vobis aras penatium, vobis mums atque vrbis tecta, vobis templa deorum atque delubra commendat."218if217216215***214213212radice in Tartara;211210209"Princes and lords may flourish, or may fade; A breath can make them as a breath has made: But a bold peasantry, their country's pride, When once destroy'd, can never be supplied."208207206205"Ante obitum, nemo supremaque funera debet."—"Dici beatus,204legalitytheirthem203onlyExperto credite202notnotillegal201200legalnot proved to be illegallegallyas far as appears to usout of the pale of the lawlegally, as it seemslegallylegallegallylegallegallylegal199legallylegalperfectly legal and constitutionalstrictly legal and constitutionalaccording to lawillegallegallylawfullylegalillegality198legalillegalillegalillegal197legality?legalityeffecteffect resumed.—Most certainly, Sir, you have taken the just view of the purport of my observation. I said distinctly, the Vos ne populo Romano deese videamini providete! Obsessa fascibus et telis impiœ conjurationis vobis supplex manus tendit patria comtnunis. Vobis se, vobis vitam omnium civium, vobis arcem et capitolium, vobis aras penatium, vobis mums atque vrbis tecta, vobis templa deorum atque delubra commendat."Vos ne populo Romano deese videamini providete! Obsessa fascibus et telis impiœ conjurationis vobis supplex manus tendit patria comtnunis. Vobis se, vobis vitam omnium civium, vobis arcem et capitolium, vobis aras penatium, vobis mums atque vrbis tecta, vobis templa deorum atque delubra commendat."218if217216215***214213212radice in Tartara;211210209"Princes and lords may flourish, or may fade; A breath can make them as a breath has made: But a bold peasantry, their country's pride, When once destroy'd, can never be supplied."208207206205"Ante obitum, nemo supremaque funera debet."—"Dici beatus,204legalitytheirthem203onlyExperto credite202notnotillegal201200legalnot proved to be illegallegallyas far as appears to usout of the pale of the lawlegally, as it seemslegallylegallegallylegallegallylegal199legallylegalperfectly legal and constitutionalstrictly legal and constitutionalaccording to lawillegallegallylawfullylegalillegality198legalillegalillegalillegal197legality?legalityeffecteffectMr. Canning
223prima facie222ifs,221220219 said, he was sure the House would, on this occasion, exercise towards him that candour and liberality which he had so often experienced, but of which he then stood so particularly in need. At that late hour of the evening, after the able and entertaining speech which they had just heard—considering the length, he would not say the excessive length of that speech—he felt that
223prima facie222ifs,221220219Mr. Brougham
 here begged to state, in order to prevent further misrepresentation from going forth to the public, that the swords had not been sharpened for the purpose of the meeting: the swords had been sent to the cutler, but it was in the usual course.Mr. Dundas
228227226225¶224 —If his hon. friend had allowed him to proceed, he would have saved him the trouble of making the observations he had made. He meant to say, that the statement in evidence before the coroner's inquest was, that the swords had been sharpened with a view to that particular day [a laugh from the ministerial side]. He hoped the House knew knew him too well to suppose that he would shelter himself under a quibble which was evidently imputed to him. The swords had been sent to be sharpened before the meeting, as appeared in evidence. They had been so sent some few days before the meeting was called, and after the intention of calling it was formed. The magistrates and yeomen were aware of this intention, and in consequence sent the swords to be sharpened. The conclusion was drawn from the knowledge of the intention with which the magistrates were fixed. Another ground of that inference was, that no such usage did in fact prevail; and that with respect to a corps which had existed so short a time, to talk of usage was an abuse of terms. He did not shrink, therefore, from the conclusion, that the swords were sharpened for the purpose. If he was in error, he desired to have his error corrected; but let that correction be the result of inquiry. But if errors ten thousand times more numerous could be detected, it was nothing to the purpose. Some errors and some falsehoods must always appear on questions always discussed, thank God, with so much interest by the people of this country. Granting, for a moment, that the Manchester meeting was illegal, there still remained that important question— were no illegal means used in its dispersion? We knew it was held by an hon. gentleman opposite, that an illegal meeting might be dispersed by means equally illegal. For this, no doubt, he would plead authorities; but was it meant to be contended, that the functions of that House, admitted, as it was, to be the
228227226225¶224Mr. Brougham.
 brought up the Report of the Address on the Prince Regent's Speech. On the motion that the said report be agreed to,Mr. Somers Cocks
 bore testimony to the high esteem in which captain Birley was held by all who knew him. He had universally the character of a most humane gentleman.Mr. Philips
331330329 observed, that the Manchester yeomanry fully participated in the feelings of the noble lord who had just sat down. They were also desirous of inquiry, because they were assured that its result would be to relieve them, from that weight of calumny under which they had hitherto laboured. An inquiry conducted before the House would, however, as he conceived, be contrary to every sound principle of judicature. He would not now go into any argument with respect to the nature of the meeting, or assign any reason why in his opinion the facts ought not to be inquired into by the House. He must say, however, that he was rather at a loss to conceive what statement of facts the noble lord who had given notice of a motion on the subject for Tuesday next, and an hon. and learned gentleman opposite, who had signified his intention of arguing the legality of the late meeting at Manchester, were prepared to bring forward to satisfy the House of the necessity of such an inquiry. But he rose now to congratulate the House that an individual, who represented that great county where the proceedings so often alluded to took place, and who was the son of the individual charged with the king's commission in that county, and he was sure he only spoke the sentiments of admiration of that nobleman common to all who had the honour to be acquainted with the manner in
331330329Lord Castlereagh
 said, he was perfectly aware the noble lord did not speak from his own knowledge, but from the evidence of others in whom he reposed confidence. He congratulated the House, however, on the opinion in this respect, the deliberate opinion of the individual who had had the best opportunities of becoming acquainted with the facts of the case, and who was not likely to have any bias on the subject. His majesty's ministers also spoke upon information which they had received on respectable authority, and from credible witnesses.Lord Castlereagh
 said, the statement did not rest on the authority of the noble lord, however high, but was confirmed by the authority of an hon. member connected with that quarter.Lord Castlereagh
primâ facie333 observed, that the noble lord had expressed his confident belief in the veracity of the statement of captain Birley, and had borne testimony to his general disposition to humanity. That character was confirmed by an hon. gentleman from Manchester, whom he did not now see in his place. These were the attestations of persons competent to judge what authority any statement from him was entitled to, and his credit was therefore supported by the noble lord and the hon. gentleman whom he had alluded to.
primâ facie333Mr. Bathurst
prima facieprima facie336335prima facie334 said, he should not have spoken had it not been for what had occurred within the last half hour. If any thing could show the necessity of an inquiry, and the duty of that House to institute it, it was the course just adopted on the other side. The noble lord had declared that his noble friend had brought forward such information as ought to satisfy the country. And what had his noble friend stated? He had stated to the House information derived by him from the very persons who were implicated in these transactions. He was ready to believe the magistrates and yeomanry might be able to justify themselves; but he would ask the House whether that description of evidence which they had just heard would satisfy any part of the country. It was too much to hear such a supposition trumpeted forth by the noble lord. When his majesty's ministers knew that in all parts of the country so many meetings had taken place on this
prima facieprima facie336335prima facie334Mr. Baring
311310309308307306 said, that his wish was, according to the ordinary courtesy of the House, to have given precedence, after the speech of his hon. and gallant friend, to any gentleman on the opposite side who was anxious to address the House; but having in vain waited for the two previous nights of the discussion for an opportunity to present himself to his notice, he seized the present moment of doing so. One advantage at least had arisen from the adjournment of the debate, that the people would see that notwithstanding the discussion of a former night on what he supposed he must now call the fancied outrage of Manchester, their complaints were at least not dismissed without full discussion. It was
311310309308307306Mr. George Lamb
 recalled to the recollection of the House, the notice which he had given towards the close of the last session, relative to certain Resolutions, which it was his intention to propose, affecting the borough of Grampound. As it was his present intention to give these resolutions a greater comprehension, he rose for the purpose of renewing that notice, and fixing the 14th of next month for the discussion. He had not yet prepared his resolutions in the precise terms, but their purport was, 1. That it is expedient the borough of Grampound should be disfranchised; 2, that it is expedient the two parliamentary seats now attached to that borough should be transferred to one or two of our populous and unrepresented cities; 3, that it is the duty of the House to consider of the best means to prevent corruption in the smaller boroughs: 4, that when the majority of the voters of a small borough should be found corrupt, that borough should be disfranchised; 5, that it is expedient to add to the number of representatives for large and populous cities. In moving these resolutions, he did not mean to propose a regular plan of parliamentary reform. This notice arose solely from the inquiry conducted last year into the state of the borough of Grampound, and might be considered as its result. A defect had been found in the national representation, which it was his object to correct, and he trusted the House would treat the subject with all the attention which its importance deserved.Lord John Russell
313312 felt that some apology was necessary for again addressing the House on the subject of the proceedings at Manchester, on which he had already declared his opinion; but an hon. member had on a former evening made several observations on the speech he had delivered, which he conceived himself bound to answer. He would not say what were the motives of that large body of men (at the smallest computation 30,000), in assembling together; the idea of their leaders was, perhaps, only to review their army, and to excite that degree of intimidation in the public mind, which such congregated numbers were calculated to produce. When he spoke of
313312Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
 expressed his thanks to the noble lord for the manner in which he had spoken of the services of his father, and what he had chosen to say of himself. The noble lord, however, seemed to labour under a little mistake. He appeared to represent him as vouching for the truth of the statements which he had made. As far as he had expressed his own opinion, he had no hesitation in saying he had that opinion of the magistrates, he did not believe they would act illegally;—but when he particularly alluded to the conduct of the yeomanry cavalry, he certainly stated he spoke from information received from that very yeomanry cavalry themselves. He had stated, indeed, at the same time, that he thought so highly of captain Birley, he was convinced, in his own mind, that gentleman would make no statement which was not correctly true. At the same time, he wished the noble lord to understand, that he did not mean to identify himself with that individual, as the narrator of the facts.Lord Stanley
328sub silentio327326325324323 said, he was anxious to make some observations on what had been circulated relative to the late proceedings at Manchester as well as upon the proceedings of the grand jury of Lancaster. The station which he held as foreman of that grand jury made it necessary that he should speak upon the latter subject. He had expected to hear observations made in that House, upon the conduct of the grand jury—such as he knew had been made elsewhere. He was
328sub silentio327326325324323Lord Stanley
 said, three testimonies had been given in favour of the character of captain Birley—his character had not been called in question. He did not believe it had ever been called in question in Manchester, and he was certain it had never been called in question in that House; and he should wish to know, therefore, whether any gentleman could say he had heard it questioned. He wished to make another observation. The statement of his noble friend rested entirely on the statement of captain Birley himself. It might be true, and it might not be true. Other statements had been made by a number of individuals on oath, on the coroner's inquest, of a nature altogether contrary to it. These statements might be true, or they might be false. They were therefore called on to inquire which of these statements were true, the statements of the magistrates and yeomanry, or the statements directly contradictory of them on oath.Mr. Bennet
316posse comitatus,315in terrorem populi,ab initio, considered himself bound, by every sense of justice, to resist the amendment proposed, because he thought it would be most unjust to the magistrates, who had acted meritoriously, if they were harassed by vexatious proceedings. It would be, in his opinion, most inexpedient to enter into an inquiry in that House, because, whatever the result might be, such a course would operate to the disadvantage of the magistrates. The feeling of the public mind, if an inquiry were instituted here, would be, in the very first instance, that the magistrates were guilty. It had been said, that the Riot act was not read, and that the yeomanry attacked the people before any resistance was made. Now, it was immaterial whether the yeomanry did or did not assail the people first, nor was it of any importance, whether the Riot act was read or not, because the meeting was, 316posse comitatus,315in terrorem populi,ab initio,Mr. Shepherd
332 agreed with the noble lord opposite, in hoping that the magistrates of Manchester would be believed
332Mr. J. P. Grant
 thought some of the remarks which had been made were founded on a misrepresentation of what had fallen from him, which misrepresentation, however, he had not seen.Mr. Hume
319318317 declared, that no man felt more than himself for the innocent persons who had suffered in the dispersion of the Manchester meeting; he deeply lamented that any man, woman or child should have been a victim on the late unfortunate occasion. It was highly laudable for any one to contribute to relieve those who had sustained injury, and no person need be ashamed of such an act. He thought, indeed, that if the gentlemen opposite would actively apply themselves to the relief of those families at Manchester, who might have been deprived of the aid of their fathers and husbands, they would show more real humanity than by making speeches which were calculated to inflame the public mind. Instead of making such speeches, they had much better put money and sustenance into the mouths of the afflicted. A few pounds would,
319318317Mr. R. Martin
338337 said, that the reasons which induced him to support the address were these:—Though it might happen that the House should vote in favour of inquiry, yet a majority might vote against any of the three modes of inquiry which were open to them. The first mode of inquiry was by an examination of witnesses at the bar. This mode of inquiry-was open to many inconveniences, and they had been well exposed by the hon. member for Yorkshire. The second mode was by a committee up stairs; but in the present state of feeling in the country it would be difficult to make a selection of members which would satisfy those whom it was proposed to conciliate. The third mode was to order the Crown lawyers to prosecute the magistrates, &c. in a court of law. But he could not consent, nor
338337Lord Compton
314 observed, that as challenge had been thrown out to all those gentlemen who were connected with the legal profession, calling on them to state their sentiments on the subject of the meeting at Manchester, he felt it a duty which he owed to himself—a duty which he could not pass over, to declare to the House the opinion he had formed with respect to the legality of that meeting. He trusted he should stand excused for not accepting the challenge at the time it was thrown out, for, if he had proceeded to address the House at two o'clock in the morning, it was easy to anticipate the way in which such an entertainment would have been received, after a debate of 20 hours. He conceived that the meeting was perfectly legal, and that it was improperly dispersed. It was a most momentous subject, a subject that never would be exhausted, until the House granted a full inquiry. He had attended that evening with much inconvenience to himself, in order, on the motion of which notice had been given by the noble lord opposite, to assist in endeavouring to persuade the House to do its duty, by instituting an inquiry. As, however, the noble lord had deferred his notice until Tuesday, he should postpone any detailed observations to that day. All that he would now say was, that he could never concur in the address until he should be convinced of the necessity of the measures to which it referred, and until the greatest grievance of which the people of England ever had to complain—not merely the establishment of a military despotism, but, which was much more alarming, an attempt to maintain that military despotism was consistent with English law and justice—had been thoroughly investigated. Nor could he concur in an address which, overlooking
314Mr. Denman
322321320 rose, for the purpose of correcting a mistake which he understood had gone abroad, relative to some observations made by him when he delivered his opinions on this question. He was made to say, that the great meeting lately assembled at Manchester had it in contemplation to keep together until night, and then to burn the town. He had never said any such thing: he recollected well what he had said. It was this. In the evidence which was offered to a committee of the House two years ago, it was stated that the leaders of a meeting, which had then been in contemplation, had intended to have waited till evening, and then to have set the town on fire at once in various places, in order to profit by the confusion and devastation which would have been created. It was also in evidence, that their reason for entertaining such intentions was, that a rate would have been laid on the county, to make good the damage done, and that such rate would have excited general discontent and dissatisfaction. He had said, that it was proper that the magistrates, who knew of such a scheme being once in contemplation, should be upon their guard to prevent its execution, whenever large meetings were assembled by the same or similar leaders. It had also been asserted in the course of the debate, that he had warmly defended the conduct of the magistrates; he was not prepared to defend, any more than he was to attack them; but he had said, that it would require a strong case to be made out, in order to justify such a measure as was proposed in the amendment. The conduct of the magistracy of the country, whose eulogium a right hon. friend of his had so eloquently pronounced on a former evening, was not to be lightly questioned. If there was any one body of people to whom the public were particularly indebted, it was to the magistracy of the country. They not only owed to them the great obligation of preserving the peace and supporting the laws of the country, but also that habitual disposition to obey the laws which was to be found in the people of England. This spirit was created by the impartiality as well as the readiness with which justice could always be obtained in the country; and therefore to institute an inquiry into
322321320Mr. Wilberforce
305304cul de sac"My poverty and not my will offends.""The realm affords no law to make me rich—"The realm is not my friend, nor the realm's law:303 rose. He expressed his disinclination to renew a subject which had been for two nights so fully discussed; but it was a question of such national importance, involving principles and consequences so essentially connected with the public welfare and tranquillity, that he felt it an indispensable duty to state his opinion upon it. In appreciation of the blessings enjoyed under the British constitution, he was as sincere as any man in that House; and to the eulogium passed upon it by the hon. member, who moved the Address, in a speech which evidently was the dictate of his own conviction, and not a mere echo to the communication from the throne, he as warmly subscribed. But it had been said, that Paradise was a place with many gates; and in directing the efforts of men to arrive there, too frequently had it happened, that fire and sword were used by those to whom religion should have communicated a purer and more congenial spirit. In politics, as well as in religion, he was one of those who never would meet with coercion those who might differ in opinion as to what they considered the privileges and the rights of that constitution. He was no radical; he objected to the vote by ballot, and thought it inconsistent with universal suffrage: he objected no less to universal suffrage, because if it existed, many of the institutions he had been sworn at the table to support could not be maintained. Yet he did not on that account think that radical reformers were to be placed out of the pale of the constitution. His objection, to their system should never lead him to act upon the Tory doctrine of putting down and coercing those from whom he differed. Such, however, was too frequently the spirit of high Tory politics, and was well pour trayed in "The History of Lord Russell's Own Times," by sir R. L'Estrange, where he stated, that a citizen's skull was a pretty thing to try the temper of a soldier's sword on. With respect to the meeting at Manchester, it was undoubtedly a meeting of Radical Reformers. Much had been said of its legality and illegality by many of the hon. members who had preceded in that discussion; in-
305304cul de sac"My poverty and not my will offends.""The realm affords no law to make me rich—"The realm is not my friend, nor the realm's law:303Sir Robert Wilson
341340339 said:—I beg to assure the House, that, after the ample discussion which this subject has received, I shall feel it to be my duty to say but a very few words. I am not vain enough to imagine, that it can be in my power to alter the opinion of any hon. member, whose view of this subject is different from my own; but when I consider the vast importance of the question before the House, its consequence not only with regard to the rights of the people, but also to the rights, independence, and character of the parliament, and even the very existence of the constitution, and when, to my very great amazement, I find a course adopted by the hon. gentlemen on the other side, equally new, unnecessary, and pernicious, supported by arguments futile and dangerous too, no consciousness of ray own inability to do the subject that justice which it has received from others, shall deter roe from recording my sentiments in justification to my constituents of the vote which I have given, in the discharge of the most solemn duty which I may ever be called upon to perform towards them. In the first place, I think it right to observe upon a part of what fell last night from an hon. and learned gentleman. That hon. and learned gentleman recommended conciliation and clemency; and I admit the principle, as I am sure every man does who votes on this side of the House, if applied at the proper season. But it is not when sedition and. blasphemy and avowed treason go hand
341340339Mr. Valentine Blake
360359verbatim358 said, he rose for the purpose of presenting a petition signed by a large body of merchants, manufacturers, tradesmen, and other inhabitants of the town of Manchester, praying the House to institute an inquiry into the fatal trans-
360359verbatim358Mr. Bennet
369368Ignoramus367366365364363 said, he had no opportunity, more than the gallant general who had just sat down, of forming an opinion on this subject; but, having read the papers that were submitted to the House, he was free to confess, that they had led him to form a conclusion very different from that which the gallant general had adopted. The gallant general had spoken
369368Ignoramus367366365364363 Mr. Mansfield
370 said, he was desirous of expressing his firm conviction, that the statements made by the hon. gentleman and the gallant general were not at all likely to be proved. He was convinced that the statement he had made on a former evening was the just one. The speech of the hon. gentleman was calculated to make an impression on the House which the petition itself did not warrant. He here begged to make an observation respecting the sharpening of the swords. About the middle of July an order was given for sharpening them, and the swords which were sharpened in
370Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
, in moving, that the petition be printed, said, the hon. gentleman who had recently spoken was rather too harsh in his censure on all the persons who had been examined before the coroner. Of the facts, he (Mr. B.) certainly had no personal knowledge; but he would pause much before he condemned all the persons who attended at the meeting of the 16th of August, as being tainted with the doctrines of Paine, and converted to the principles of infidelity and blasphemy. He, for one, thought those sweeping censures did a great deal of harm. They tended to widen the unfortunate breach which existed between parliament and the people. Whatever the opinions of gentlemen might be with respect to individual guilt, they ought not to cast a general slander on large bodies of men, about whom they knew nothing. He would tell the hon. gentleman who had uttered this censure, that there were amongst those who gave evidence, persons of sober, calm, and religious habits. One of them had come up to town on a journey of philanthropy, to propose to the House those measures for the protection of children in factories, which were carried last year. He knew that individual, and his object was, to protect not only him, but all those persons who had given evidence, from the charge that had been made against them; because it was most unfair to make those general accusations in the absence of all proof.Mr. Bennet
 said, he had not meant to make so sweeping an assertion as was attributed to him. He felt, however, that he had a right to make a strong assertion, because one of those persons who gave evidence against the magistrates, admitted that he had himself marched a large party from Leeds to that meeting.Mr. Mansfield
377ignored376375374373372371 said, he had been requested to present a petition which he had previously read, and which contained nothing disrespectful towards the House. It complained of
377ignored376375374373372371Mr. Alderman Wood
l.l.l.l.l.378 said,
l.l.l.l.l.378The Chancellor of the Exchequer
401400399ex-officio398397396395394393392391390389prima facie388387bellum percussionbellum levatum386l.s.s.385384383382381380 said, that in rising pursuant to his notice to call the attention of the House to the state of the country, as described in the passages which had just been read from his royal highness the Prince Regent's most gracious Speech, he confessed that he never felt a more awful impression of the painfulness and difficulty of any task that he had undertaken to execute. It was painful, for what could give greater pain to a minister of the crown than to be required by an imperative sense of duty to propose to parliament the adoption of measures of a restrictive and coercive nature? It was difficult—for while the House, the country, and every loyal British subject were entitled in the present serious crisis—a crisis, indeed, of imminent danger, unless parliament met the evil with manly firmness and vigour—to look to his majesty's ministers for the means of affording adequate security for life and property, and for the safety of the constitution, they were entitled to claim from his majesty's government that they should make any propositions which they might determine on bringing forward, as much as possible, in the spirit of the constitution under which we happily lived; and to expect, that while they recommended the measures which to them appeared calculated to meet the public exigency, they should not forget the sacred principles of right and liberty, which had made Great Britain a source of admiration and envy to all surrounding nations. He
401400399ex-officio398397396395394393392391390389prima facie388387bellum percussionbellum levatum386l.s.s.385384383382381380Lord Castlereagh
 explained. He had not asserted that the only distress arose from the diminution of the trade with America; but he stated it as a consoling circumstance, that amidst our distress, it did not appear that the consumption of our manufactures in foreign markets was diminished, except in America, where the diminution was to be attributed to temporary circumstances. He had admitted the distress, though that, too, he believed to be exaggerated; nor were those the most disaffected who were the most distressed. He held, too, that the distress depended upon causes to be removed by time alone, not by the hand of parliament, still less by the particular nostrum which had been brought forward for their cure. Any thing which might now be done by the House would not prevent them from taking that distress into consideration at some future period.Lord Castlereagh
415414413 said, he was unwilling to offer himself to the attention of the House; but he felt it impossible, after the speech of the noble lord, to suffer them to separate, without expressing his detestation of the measures proposed. He conceived he should not be perform-
415414413Lord Folkestone
418 observed, that it had been his custom to express his sentiments merely by his vote; and he should not now have deviated from it, but that being convinced by the reasons of his hon. and learned friend, he would not press this matter to a division, and was therefore
418Lord Rancliffe
ex officioscintilla thought the time was now arrived when the House should show that it meant to deal even-handed justice to the people. He viewed with perfect horror the measures which had been proposed; but he wished to know whether there was to be a ex officioscintillaMr. George Lamb
357 said, the House had, in the last session, agreed to certain resolutions respecting the borough of Camelford. One of those resolutions was, that the Speaker's warrant for a new writ for that borough should not be issued until ten days after the commencement of the next session, which period would expire on Thursday next; and another pledged the House to take into consideration the report of the committee on the Camelford election. He wished that the issuing of the warrant should be postponed until the report was considered; and, with that view, he would to-morrow move, that the order for not issuing the warrant until ten days after the meeting of parliament should be discharged, and that the Speaker be directed not to issue the same until the re-
357 Mr. D. W. Harvey
412411410ex-officio409408407406405404403402 observed, that the awful denunciation by the noble lord, of many of the principles which he (Mr. Tierney) had been accustomed to hold most sacred, must of course occasion him to rise under considerable embarrassment; but that embarrassment would be greater if he imagined that after the statement of the noble lord, the House would expect him on the sudden to be prepared to go into a general argument upon the question. Great variety of matter had been introduced, the greater part of which, to him at least, was perfectly new. When he came down to the House he had not the most distant conception that the noble lord would advert to many of the points on which he had dwelt at large. He as-
412411410ex-officio409408407406405404403402Mr. Tierney
in toto417416 said, it was not his intention to trespass long on the attention of the House, but he felt it due to his hon. friends and himself to state why it was they did not wish to take the sense of the House in this stage of the proceedings. It was not because they did not object to
in toto417416Mr. Brougham
 rose to move for an account of the public debt of Great Britain and Ireland, to which he had called the attention of the House last session. The account which he was about to move for would, if produced, show the total amount of the funded and unfunded debt of this country, from the year 1786 to the year 1819, in a much more clear and correct manner than any that had ever been laid before the House. He then moved for "An account of the amount of the public debt of Great Britain and Ireland, and the interest thereon in British currency, as it stood on the 5th January in each year, from 1786 to 1819, in separate columns:—1. Debt redeemed, and interest thereon, Great Britain, including the Austrian and Portuguese loans:—2. Debt redeemed, and interest thereon, Ireland:—3. Total debt redeemed, and interest thereon, both countries:—4. Funded debt unredeemed, and interest thereon, including the Austrian and Portuguese loans, England:—5. Funded debt unredeemed, and interest thereon, Ireland:—6. Total funded debt unredeemed, and interest thereon, both countries:—7. Total funded debt, redeemed and unredeemed, and interest thereon, both countries:—8. Unfunded debt, and interest thereon, Great Britain (including all interest due, but not paid, on the 5th January 1819):— 9. Unfunded debt, and interest thereon, Ireland (including all interest due, but not paid, on the 5th January 1819):—10. Unfunded debt, and interest thereon, both countries (including all interest due, but not paid, on the 5th January 1819):11 Total debt unredeemed, funded and unfunded, and interest thereon, including all interest due, but not paid, both countries:—12. Total debt, redeemed and unredeemed, funded, unfunded, and interest thereon, both countries, including amount of annuities paid in each country, and the expenses of management."—Ordered.Mr. Hume
l.356 said, that towards the close of the last session, he had submitted several motions to the House respecting the state of the colonies; but as the lateness of the period did not allow them to be properly gone into, he now rose to renew his notice for the present session. The object he had in view was, to obtain a just ac- count of the expenditure of the different colonies, which would be comprised in his motion. Preparatory to that step, he should now move for a correct account of the civil and military establishments in certain of our islands, in the years 1793, 1805, and 1818, in order to see what increase had been made therein, and to ascertain whether any and what benefit had been derived from those settlements. He should also move for another return respecting those which were denominated "King's colonies." He meant those colonies that were exclusively governed by the Crown, and did not partake of the benefits of British law and British legislation. It appeared to him to be a question of great importance, whether those colonies should remain, as they at present were, governed by orders in council, or be subjected to the system which prevailed in the other colonies; the more especially as the money derived from them was, he believed, expended in a manner little conducive to the interests of this country. He particularly alluded to Ceylon, the Mauritius, the Cape of Good
l.356 Mr. Hume
 observed, that he had seen in the public papers that there had been a deficiency in the revenue in the last quarter to the amount of eight millions. The amount was so great that he confessed it staggered him. It, however, required some explanation, and he requested his right hon. friend would have the goodness to give it.Mr. Grenfell
 reported the Prince Regent's Answer to the Address, as follows:Mr. Speaker
509 presented a petition from the inhabitants of the town of Reading. It was numerously and respectably signed, he said, and related chiefly to the affair of Manchester on the 16th of August last. In consequence of information obtained by the petitioners, of the particulars of that day's transactions, not only furnished by the newspapers, but also by several respectable men in their neighbourhood, who had subsequently visited the scene, the petitioners were led to believe that the meeting was perfectly legal and constitutional, and that the conduct of the persons assembled was exemplary for good order and propriety; that an indiscriminate at-tack was made on this legal and orderly meeting, where by not only the leaders and audience, part of the meeting, but those who had been attracted by mere curiosity, suffered extreme cruelty and out-rage. The petitioners were convinced that this attack was a violent infraction
509Mr. Fysche Palmer
515l. said, the House would do him the justice to recollect, that, when the discussion of the affairs of the Bank took place, he stated, that the necessary arrangement for raising a sum of money for the service of the year rendered it unlikely that any very early payment could be made to the Bank, unless that body chose to afford the usual accommodation with respect to the loan, by which they would be enabled to repay themselves a very large sum. They had, however, declined that accommodation, and the benefits they would have derived from it. He had, notwithstanding, to state, that a very considerable sum had been paid, to the Bank of England; and arrangements had been formed, by the operation of which, the directors of the Bank were satisfied, that the sum of 5,000,000515l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he saw no reason for altering the proposition which the House had adopted last night, namely, to read the bill (which had been printed and handed round in connexion with the others) a second time on Thursday next. The learned gentleman had, in his opinion pushed the connexion between the bills too far. The sooner they came to the discussion of the principle, the sooner they would separate the bill from all the misrepresentation with which the learned gentleman seemed so anxious to surround it, during his short speech of last night. That speech made him extremely desirous to come to close quarters on the measure, in order that the country might understand what the bill really was to which the learned gentleman and those around him attributed such fearful qualities, and that it should be completely freed from the misrepresentations that had been thrown upon it.Lord Castlereagh
 said, he had gone to the proper office and got a copy of the bill; and he defied any individual who had procured it, and who had turned over one or two of its pages, to say, that he could be at all prepared, considering the labour gentlemen were likely to go through that night, and the important discussion which was fixed for to-morrow, to decide on so important a measure on Thursday. It was impossible for any gentleman who examined the bill, and saw the numerous and complicated provisions which it contained, to be prepared to discuss it on Thursday, so as to justify his conduct to his constituents, for the vote he might give. Why should a bill of such importance be hurried through the House in this manner? Was it that the people should know nothing of it until it was passed? Were they so anxious to get rid of those meetings, that the bill, which restricted the assembling of the people, was to be hastened forward, so as to prevent the people from assembling to state their opinion with respect to the measure itself? If it were hurried forward with such precipitation, it could neither be understood in the country nor in that House. He hoped the noble lord would agree to the proposition of his learned friend, and postpone the second reading of the bill for a few days.Lord Folkstone
526525524, in seconding the motion, expressed his regret at perceiving that his majesty's ministers anxiously seized upon the state of alarm into which the country had been temporarily thrown, in order to invade the rights and liberties of the people. He should deem himself unworthy of the confidence of his constituents, or of a seat in that House, if he did not stand forward and express his disapprobation. He fully agreed with an hon. friend of his, in expressing his surprise at the awful denunciation of the noble lord opposite. He was astonished to find the House called
526525524Colonel Davies
532531530529528527 opposed the motion, and expressed his great regret at seeing the noble lord lending himself to such measures as those which he now advocated. It was with regret he saw those most respectable gentlemen who formed what was called the Opposition, pursuing their present course at a moment when the state of the country was such as to require the united efforts of the House to restore it to tranquillity. If the noble lord and his hon. friends conceived that by their present course they would conciliate the radicals, whom certainly they did not defend, but whose conduct they endeavoured to prevent the House from inquiring into—if they imagined that they would conciliate those men, they would, he thought, find themselves much mistaken. The House, he contended, stood pledged by the address, which was voted, to the opinion that those persons called radicals were wrong, and that their proceedings ought to be put down.—The right hon. gentleman here adverted to, and repeated several passages in the address and amendment, and contended, that by them, all parties in the House were pledged to give their aid, collectively and individually, to repress those practices which were complained of as disturbing the state of the country. It
532531530529528527Mr. Bathurst
536535 said, he had heard with the sincerest regret a violence of language on the other side which before that time he had but seldom been under the painful necessity of attending to. He did think, that the noble mover had pledged himself to sentiments not quite in unison with those he had heard from him on former occasions. He adverted to the former arguments of the Opposition against committees of inquiry, and wondered how they could now adopt the entirely opposite course, of recommending what they had hitherto so strenuously objected to.
536535Mr. Long Wellesley
544, of Wiltshire, rose with considerable diffidence to offer his opinion to the House. He had never had the honour of addressing it before; but, although he had always considered that it contained a great majority of the wisdom and talent of the country, yet he conceived it to be his paramount duty not to be silent, if, by the exertion of his small voice, he thought he could advance any thing for the interests of his country. He had listened, with great attention, to the arguments which had been used in the course of the several nights debate on this occasion, and his conviction was, that a committee should be formed on the papers at present before the House, before it passed such strong restrictive measures as had been proposed to them. He begged of the House to consider that the measures of restriction contemplated, applied to the whole country, whereas the seditious turbulence which originally called for them was confined to only a few districts. He would give full credit to all that appeared from the papers on the table; but he conceived the House was asked to go a great length, when they were called upon to agree to coercive measures without any other information. If disorders existed in some parts of the kingdom, should the House be called upon to agree to measures which would extend to the entire kingdom? He would compare the House, if it so acted, to a physician, who applied a remedy without knowing the cause of the disorder. He believed the causes of the present discontents might be attributed to the opinion which the people entertained, that their wishes were despised, that their petitions for reform were not listened to. To these causes one part of the disaffection might be attributed. But the distress of the productive classes was a more powerful cause. Every
544Mr. Bennett
 disavowed that position.The Solicitor General
555, on reviewing all the circumstances of the case, found it absolutely impossible to doubt that inquiry into what had taken place at Manchester ought to be immediately instituted. This was necessary for the character of the magistrates themselves. To the argument which seemed to be principally relied on, that a parliamentary inquiry would prejudice proceedings about to take place in a court of justice, he would reply, that in a case of national importance, this was an inconvenience that must be submitted to. In the next place, he would remark, that he knew of no pending prosecution that would bring the whole case before any of the ordinary tribunals; and for himself he would say, that in his opinion, nowhere could so impartial an investigation of the circumstance take place, as in a committee of
555Mr. W. Lamb
560559558 rose amidst loud cries for the "question." Nothing, he assured the House, could persuade him to address them on this occasion, but the wish to state the nature of, rather than to argue, the present question. The noble lord who brought forward the motion, intended by it that the papers relating to the state of the country should be referred to a committee, and this, if carried, he intended to follow up with another—that this committee should have the power of sending for and examining persons, papers and records. It had in this a double view; one was, to inquire into the whole of the proceedings at Manchester; and the other to take the general state of the country into consideration, and for this purpose calling before them persons from every county where they might imagine that any disturbance or discontent existed. The question resolved itself to this and he submitted to the House whether they would consent to it—that the whole of the remedial measures should be postponed until this tedious double inquiry were gone into, for that was really the object in view. Would they submit, in the state of the country which had been alluded to in the speech from the throne, and described in the papers before them, to postpone all the measures arising from that state to an indefinite period—till this committee should have terminated its lengthened labours? Was the House prepared to rescind the vote it had come to the other evening, which vote decided, in his opinion, that the Manchester proceedings could not properly be inquired into by parliament? Would they wait until this committee reported the testimony of the Pearsons, the Bamfords, and all the other radical evidence which would, no
560559558Lord Castlereagh
 did not rise to oppose the bringing up of the petition; but the declaration of the petitioners, that the Manchester meeting was perfectly legal and constitutional, was one which he felt it to be his duty to protest against. The pretence of exercising the right of petitioning, could not, in his opinion warrant the military parade and banners used on that occasion. He thought, indeed, that the meeting was directly illegal, seditious, and dangerous to the public peace. The demand for "annual parliaments, universal suffrage, and, vote by ballot," inscribed on one of the flags, was utterly unconstitutional. "Liberty or Death," on another of the flags, proved the intention entertained of maintaining the first-mentioned claim at the hazard of life. This was riotous and treasonable; it was nonsense to confound such proceedings with the legal right of petitioning.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
514 said, the House had, in the last session, agreed to two resolutions relative to the borough of Camel ford. One of these was, that the House would, shortly after its meeting, take into consideration the two reports which had been drawn up relative to the last election for Camel ford; the other was, that the warrant of the Speaker should not be issued, for a new writ, for members to serve for that borough, until ten days after parliament had met. He wished that the period for issuing the warrant should be farther postponed till the 6th of January next; and also, that the House should enter
514Mr. D. W. Harvey
539538537 rose at the same moment with several members, but the courtesy of the House gave the precedence to the hon. gentleman as a new member. He said he was anxious to raise his voice that night in behalf of the suffering people of this country, while yet they had a constitution; for after that night, he feared, they would be without the shelter of such a blessing. He was little acquainted with the forms of the House, but he thought, that when a communication like that lately made from the throne came under their consideration, it ought to be discussed in the most formal manner, and with that temper and deliberation which would at once show the best regard for the Crown, and become the character of the representatives of the people. He felt that the ministers of the Crown were in a most responsible situation—his alarm at the existing state of affairs was great, and increased it must be, if, by the event of this night, he was driven to the melancholy conclusion, that prejudice and passion got the better of the judgment of the House of Commons, and that they were prepared to take for granted the assertion of ministers as to
539538537Mr. Douglas Kinnaird
569568567566565564563562561 rose. Never, he observed, in the whole course of his parliamentary life, was he so unexpectedly called upon to address the House: for up to the extraordinary rant which the noble lord had just concluded, he had not conceived that it would have been necessary for him to offer one word upon the question before them. But the House would perceive that he had been goaded into it
by the noble lord, in a speech the sole object of which seemed to be, to rouse a strong party spirit, as if the debate could not be as well concluded without it. Indeed, next to the surprise which this unexpected call had excited, nothing astonished him more than the tone and manner in which it was delivered. He had never before heard the noble lord express himself in a similar manner. The noble lord had on all former occasions so demeaned himself in debate as to entitle him to the respect of all who heard him; but, on this occasion, he had gone into a complete rant, with no other view, as it appeared to him, than that of exciting a strong and acrimonious party spirit. The noble lord had talked about conciliation. Did this look like it? Was not this any thing but an attempt at conciliation? Was it not rather calculated to excite strong party feelings on both sides? In some of those insinuating terms, of which the noble lord was so perfect a master, he had declared that the Opposition were allied with the radicals. They who, had ever
569568567566565564563562561Mr. Tierney
 earnestly wished the noble lord to put off for a short time the discussion of a measure which he deliberately and advisedly considered to be subversive of the constitution. He was most anxious, as the bill would effect such a change in the constitution, that the House of Commons should be assembled together to meet it; and he now gave notice, that he would to-morrow move that the House be called over.Mr. Bennet
ex parte513512511510 said, he held in his hand a petition from a person of the name of Samuel Bamford, of Middleton, in the county palatine of Lancaster. It was drawn up in a manner extremely decorous in every point of view, and furnished one of the most singular specimens of the talents and good sense which were to be found among persons in the petitioner's rank of society. The petitioner set forth that he was one of those who conducted a large body of individuals to the meeting at Manchester of the 16th of August. He stated that he was intimately acquainted with the motives which induced individuals to attend that meeting, that he was perfectly cognizant of the propriety of the means which they intended to use to accomplish their objects, and that he was most solicitous to appear at the bar of that House to
ex parte513512511510Mr. Bennet
516 said, as there was no question before the House, he certainly had not a right to answer the noble lord, but he might be permitted to observe, that his having studiously endeavoured to surround the measure with misrepresentation, as had been alleged, so far from being a reason for rapid and immature decision, afforded the best possible ground for a short delay. The bill itself could not be affected by his misrepresentations: it might be laid in its own natural "features"
516Mr. Brougham
 wished to ask the noble lord opposite, whether he meant to persist in the notice he had given last night, to move the order of the day on Thursday next, for the second reading of one of the bills which he had introduced? The reason why he asked this question was obvious; because, whichever of those bills came first to be discussed, the debate consequent on it would involve the discussion of the whole system to which that bill had reference. He would ask the noble lord, whether it was a decorous proceeding towards the country, after three days notice, and occupied as they would be that evening, in an important discussion, to call on them to consider a measure which went to effect a most extensive change in the constitution of the country—an alteration greater than ever was contemplated in the memory of man, by any one act of the legislature?Mr. Brougham
543542541**540 rose to state a circumstance which had been communicated to him by general Byng, to show the first intention of the magistrates at Manchester respecting the intended meeting of the 9th of August. The general had called upon the Magistrates when that meeting was announced, to inquire if they wanted his assistance or that of the military for the occasion: The magistrates answered, that they did not apprehend any danger, and would not require the proffered aid. The general apprised them, that he would remain in his own house, and not quit the immediate neighbourhood, until after the meeting of the 16th; in order that the magistrates
543542541**540Lord Lascelles
 said, he had no-doubt but that the part taken by his noble friend and his noble father, was dictated by the purest motives of public duty, and the warmest and most honourable anxiety for the good of their country, but he was prepared to show that they were mistaken. He would state to the House exactly what had taken place between him and his noble friend respecting the meeting at York, and he would show distinctly that no pledge was given by him or by his noble friend (lord Lascelles) which could bind them to vote for a parliamentary inquiry. Here the hon. gentleman went into a detailed account of what had taken place between himself and lord Milton before the meeting at York, and of the proceedings at that meeting. He said that the object of himself and his friends was, to exclude persons from that meeting who went about deluding the people, and to assemble the rank and wealth of the county; for that purpose he was willing to agree to join in an address for the calling of parliament, provided his noble friend opposite would concede to him another point, reserving to himself the right of expressing the opinion which he entertained that if an inquiry should be instituted, it ought to be instituted in a court of law, before a jury of twelve men. He had said to his noble friend, that he was willing to give up his opinion on one point, if his noble friend would give up his on another. That having been refused, by what right was he called on to stand to any concession ho might, for the sake of the country have been willing to have made. The hon. member proceeded to describe the state of the meeting, the conduct of individuals who attended it, the approach of mobs with drums and flags, upon one of which the words "Hunt for ever" stared him and his noble friend in the face. If he had given any specific pledge, he was willing to stand by it—nothing would induce him to violate it; but no pledge of the kind was given by him. With regard to the bills introduced by the noble lord (Castlereagh), the state of the country at present required some laws of their description. He did not say that conciliatory modes should be abandoned, but he felt at the same time that it was necessary to oppose the spirit which was abroad, and which spirit was opposed to the peace and the prosperity of the community.Mr. Stuart Wortley
508 said, he was extremely unwilling to occupy the attention of the House by any thing that respected himself personally, and he felt that, on the preceding evening, he had put an entire end to a misrepresentation that had taken place with reference to what he had said a few days ago. Ho had since been charged with saying, that at some meeting in the West Riding of Yorkshire, resolutions had been passed on the part of the Radical Reformers, in which the property of earl Fitzwilliam had been pointed at for partition. He explained to the House yesterday, that he never said that such resolutions had been passed; but that, in the course of a meeting held within the West Riding of the county of York, the property of the noble earl was directly pointed at for partition. There was a material difference between the two statements; because, if the Reformers had come to resolutions of such a nature, the persons concurring in them would have been implicated in their adoption, as much as the persons by whom they were proposed. What he ori-
508Mr. Stuart Wortley
 commented with much force on the demand now made for a committee of inquiry by those who uniformly described the reports of committees of that House as merely containing the sentiments of the minister, every syllable of which he was, when such an argument suited their purpose, supposed to supply. He described the fatal consequences resulting from the formation of seditious clubs throughout the country, and said that in order to arrest these evils in their course, he was disposed to support the present measures.Mr. Mansfield
556 rose amidst loud calls for the "Question!" The distinction attempted to be drawn by the last speaker between a judicial and a parliamentary inquiry, appeared to him to supply no good reason why the latter course should be adopted. The annals of inconsistency, teeming as they did with the exploits of the gentlemen opposite, offered nothing equal to their unaccountable conduct in calling for a committee on this occasion, after lifting their voices so frequently against the reports of the committees of that House, which they had heretofore affected to regard as the reports of ministers. Suppose the circumstance of the case reversed—suppose that instead of wishing the proceedings to be brought before a court of justice, they were to demand that they should be referred to a committee of that House! What in that case would be the language of their opponents? The cry would be, that they wished to withdraw them from an impartial tribunal, that they might be inquired into, where the acts of ministers were sure to be judged right—that they therefore took the case from a court of justice, to bring it before a partial committee of a corrupt House of Commons. It was now proposed that such a course should be taken, and that too, to satisfy those very persons who had no confidence in the House of Commons as at present constituted. He censured the language held respecting the yeomanry. The members
556Mr. Lawson
l.l. wished to know from the right hon. gentleman opposite, whether any and what arrangements had been made for paying to the Bank of England part of the sum of 5,000,000l.l.Mr. Grenfell
 said, the House had heard much from the noble lord opposite on the subject of conciliation. He wished for conciliation as much as any man, but he desired to know what was meant by the word as it was now used? He wished to know from the noble lord who had brought forward the present motion, and those who supported him, what they would be disposed to give to conciliate the radicals? Would they propose other taxes to the chancellor of the exchequer in lieu of those which now pressed heavy on the lower classes? Would they propose a new property tax? If they would do this, he, for one, would approve of their efforts of conciliation.Mr. R. Martin
552551550 felt himself called on to explain the opinion he had lately expressed on a particular occasion. As an humble individual, he had no pretensions to high influence as a political authority in that House; but he felt that he was a member of the House of Commons, and thought he claimed some pretensions to legal authority, from the profession to which he had the honour to belong. A noble lord, he understood, on a very recent occasion, and, in his absence, had done him the honour to say, that he, as a lawyer, would not state in his place in that House the opinion which, as a lawyer, he had expressed in another place. But he could assure that noble lord, that he would not state an opinion here or elsewhere that he did not entertain. A right hon. and learned gentleman, who spoke last night, powerfully as to his eloquence, but whom he did not consider as a good law authority, had asserted, that by the law of the land, the magistrates were warranted in putting down, as they did, the meeting at Manchester, as being a riotous one even from its numbers. A good law authority, in this case, must be founded upon an intimate knowledge of the statutes and of the common law of the land; and from all the knowledge he could derive through a laborious intimacy with those laws, in the course of his professional experience, he must say that the principle laid down by that right hon. and learned gentleman was most dangerous. He had been charged with holding opinions in his professional capacity to which he did not agree; and he expected to be asked if such were his opinions. But it was not fair to consider persons who did not express their opinions as assenting to those of an opposite nature. Many opinions had been expressed last night in favour of the proceedings which took place at Manchester, which opinions he sincerely deplored, and he must say, that upon that subject he entertained an opinion perfectly different. It had been supposed, that he had stated the meeting at Manchester on the 16th of August to be an illegal meeting; but he now begged leave to say, he had expressed no such opinion. The point in question was, whether the meeting was or was not lawfully dispersed? From all that he had learned on the subject his opinion was, that the persons met there were not lawfully dispersed. He thought the meeting was legally assembled, that it did not
552551550Mr. Denman
553 resumed, and said that he of course misunderstood his hon. and learned friend, but such as he had stated was certainly his conception of his hon. and learned friend's doctrine. In order, however, to demonstrate the fallacy of such doctrine, and to show the real character of a riotous meeting, he referred to the authority of lord Coke, to the case of Howard and Gell in Hobart's report, and to the opinion of Justice Holt. But if his hon. and learned friend thought the Manchester meeting illegal upon the
553Mr. Denman
prima facie554 thought the House would best discharge its duty by resisting the motion for inquiry. He was not ignorant of the responsibility that attached to the House, yet he could not overlook the thousands and tens of thousands who were looking up to that House for protec-
prima facie554Mr. W. Courtenay
534533 said, that the motion of the noble lord was for the reference of certain papers to a select committee, and that if any thing had been wanting to convince him of the necessity of such a measure, it had been just supplied by the speech of the right hon. gentleman opposite. He had expressed his surprise at the conduct of those gentlemen whom he denominated the Opposition, and had as-
534533Sir M. W. Ridley
523522argumentum ad hominem521520519518 said, he could most unaffectedly assure the House, that he felt more oppressed on the present occasion, than he had ever before done when the House had honoured him by listening to what he had to offer to their notice. The importance of the question struck him as very great, even when he gave notice of his intended motion; but what had occurred since—he meant the introduction of those bills, the object of which the noble lord last night stated—had increased the importance of the question so extremely, that he felt unfeignedly sorry he was the person destined to bring forward this momentous subject. He wished very much that some person more able to impress its importance on the House than he was, had given notice of the motion; but feeling it to be his most imperious duty to draw the attention of the House to the subject, and having given notice that he would do so, he begged of the House to extend to him that indulgence, while he delivered his sentiments, which they had frequently done on former occasions. On all sides of the House it was admitted, that the state of the country was most alarming. Every gentleman on the other side of the House had allowed that great cause of alarm existed, though that alarm was traced to different sources. If, then, it was agreed by all, that the country was thus situated, surely it was necessary that the House, in passing the measures which they were called on to adopt, should proceed with the utmost deliberation, and take the greatest possible pains to satisfy themselves that what they did was not only not more than was necessary, but that the measures they pursued were exactly applicable to the danger which appeared to threaten the state. It was, therefore, necessary for the House to be clearly convinced, that the existing laws were not sufficient to meet the exigencies of the time; that measures of a coercive and vigorous nature were necessary to be resorted to; and, lastly, that the bills proposed by the noble lord were those which were exactly applicable to the dangers that were to be encountered and which they had reason to hope would check it. To enable them to come to this conclusion, it appeared to him, that every possible information should be laid before the House. He did not pretend to recollect precedents, but he believed such a question was never before brought under the consideration of the House, without
523522argumentum ad hominem521520519518Lord Althorp
547546545 said, that although there was nothing in the early part of his noble friend (lord Lascelles') speech, in which he did not agree, yet he thought his noble friend had fallen into the error of which he had accused others, of viewing only one side of the subject, as he was prepared, not only to vote against the motion, but to vote for all the bills which had been brought in. The vote which was
now proposed to the House comprehended the events at Manchester, events which, of all that he remembered, were the most unfortunate, and called the most loudly for parliamentary interference. Much obloquy had been cast on himself and his friends for their conduct with relation to these transactions. If they had not felt that the constitution was at stake, no earthly consideration would have induced them to interfere. It was not affection for the leaders of the Manchester meeting, or its objects—it was not even sympathy for the blood that was shed, but a conviction that by the conduct of the yeomanry, sanctioned as it was by his majesty's ministers, rights the most important had been called in question. It certainly did make a difference whether the meeting was legal or illegal. If it was illegal it was to be dispersed according to law. He did not say, that if force had been used by the meeting, it might not have been met by force, but it remained to be proved that any violence originated from the people. He called to the recollection of the House the letter of Mr. Hay, written on the eve of the transaction, which confirmed all the suspicions he had entertained. The ministers indeed had said, that this letter was not a fair and full account, but that they were enabled to give it out with other information which explained the matter to their satisfaction, though they had taken care not to
547546545Lord Milton
 having moved the order of the day for going into a Committee of Supply.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the duty of the dock-yards was formerly executed by the marine corps, and it was always highly desirable that it should be performed by them. That which was now proposed was therefore nothing more than merely reverting to the ancient system.Sir B. Martin
s. asked, what was the reason that the charge for victuals was 1s.Mr. Baring
 said the sum voted last year was found to be inadequate, and it was necessary that the charge should be fully covered. Therefore the additional shilling was put on, and for no other reason.Sir B. Martin
 did not mean to oppose any part of the service, but when the hon. baronet came down to vote the navy-estimates, and made any alteration in the items, he had a right to state to the House on what ground he made it. It was the paramount duty of that House to inquire into all appropriations of money, and therefore he called for information.Mr. Baring
s.575 said, that the vote of last sesion was insufficient, and therefore it was proposed on this oc-
s.575The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that he should imitate the example of his right hon. friend, and say very little upon the resolution now before the House, inasmuch as it was merely formal, and arose from the necessity which existed of having a recommendatory vote from the committee before it could be brought into the House, owing to its being a money bill. The bill was not in the hands of hon. members at present, and that gave him another reason for not discussing its enactments at present. If, in the debate of a former evening on this subject, he bad said any thing incorrect or offensive, he was ready instantly to retract it; but he had then quoted the case of one Journal which appeared to have taken the same view of the subject as he himself had done; it had originally paid the usual newspaper duty, but it now escaped it by passing under the name of a pamphlet. He thought some such legislative enactment as that which this resolution contemplated to be actually requisite to protect what he had called the respectable part of the press. An acquiescence in the resolution of that evening would not pledge hon. members to support the measures which might afterwards be founded Upon it.Lord Castlereagh
 considered it to be the duty of the hon. baronet, when he called for any augmented vote, to state the grounds on which he applied for such augmentation. The estimates should be moved by some person who could give to the House all necessary information on the subject.Mr. Baring
576 said, that he should decline discussing the principle on which the resolution which he had now to move was founded, as it would most probably come before the House immediately, on another occasion. He had thought it his duty to introduce it to the House, because a considerable fraud had been committed on the revenue, by means of the pamphlets against which his measure was intended, and because a considerable invasion had also been made by them upon the property of the regular newspapers. He then handed up his resolution to the chairman, which was as follows: —"That all Pamphlets, or Papers commonly so called, and all other papers containing public news, or intelligence or occurrences, or any remarks or observations, address, or letter thereon, or upon any matter established in Church or State, printed in any part of the United Kingdom, to be dispersed and made public, which shall not exceed two sheets, or which shall be sold or exposed to sale for a less sum than six-pence, exclusive of the Duty to be charged thereon, shall be deemed and taken to be Newspapers within the meaning of the several Acts in
576The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had no objection to the increase of the marines, but he did not like that, to the same extent, the military force should also be increased, which would evidently be the effect of the present measure.Mr. Tierney
574 said, if the marines were increased by 2,000 men, it was clear that 2,000 of the military would be applicable to some other service. If 2,000 additional marines were raised, who were to do a duty now performed by the military, ought not the army to be decreased to that amount? If it was not, then it came to this, that to this extent they increased the army. He had no objection to the marines having the care of the dock-yards, for common sense pointed them out as the most proper force to undertake that duty; but he did not approve of this mode of strengthening the army. It was understood that 10,000 men were to be added to the military force of the country, and no person would contend
574Mr. Tierney
571 said, he felt that he could not conscientiously discharge his duty without opposing the motion. The present was a parliamentary and constitutional occasion for the statement of grievances. As often as a supply was demanded by the crown, so often was any member of that House entitled to state the grievances of the people. In opposing the present motion, therefore, he was only exercising that constitutional right with which, in any case of emergency, every member was invested. The great objection and grievance which he had to state, was the extraordinary and unprecedented haste with which ministers seemed resolved to hurry the new measures through parliaments. If they were temporary or local in their character it would be a different matter; but it was because they would effect a great and a permanent change in the constitution; it was, in short for the reasons which he had mentioned yesterday, although they had had no effect on the noble lord, that he considered it highly indecorous to' urge them with such unprecedented dispatch. The House was now at a notice of eight and forty hours—about twelve of which had been passed in debate on another part of those measures —it was at a notice of thirty-six hours to go into the consideration of the details of the new system. It was to be called upon to-morrow night, in discussing the first of the proposed bills,
571Mr. Brougham
577 said, that as this was only a resolution preparatory to the bringing in of a bill upon the subject, he should not enter into the principle of it at any length, because, though the resolution entered into some details, it had not mentioned any of the exceptions which it was doubtless intended to allow. He should therefore only refer to one circumstance at present, which had been very incorrectly stated by the noble lord on a former night. He had not the slightest doubt of the misrepresentation which the noble lord had made being unintentional; he conceived it to have arisen from his not having seen, or from his not having considered the acts of parliament which already existed upon the subject. After the decided reprobation which he (Mr. Brougham) had passed upon the seditious and blasphemous libels which had emanated from the press in the course of the last three years, he did not expect that he should be suspected of too great a leaning towards them. He must, however, say, that nobody ought to be charged with more crimes than those of which they were actually guilty; and therefore he thought that it was not altogether right to charge men who were guilty of treason or blasphemy, with being also guilty of a fraud upon the revenue. He would show the House good reasons why the publishers of these pamphlets were not guilty of the charge which had that evening been brought against them. The words of the Stamp act, on which alone this charge had been substantiated, and upon which he had always given his opinion, when requested so to do, were "Any newspaper or papers containing any news, intelligence, or occurrence." From those words it was impossible to argue that a person who did not publish any news, intelligence, or occurrence, but merely commented upon them, was guilty of a fraud upon the revenue, because the loophole through which he escaped was evidently a loophole contemplated by the legislature. That this was the case would appear more clearly by considering the intention of the legislature. The act allowed not only individuals to publish every week, or at any other perodical intervals, such comments, but also contained a clause stating the terms on which they were to publish them. From the word-
577Mr. Brougham
 begged leave to inform the noble lord, that the publication to which he alluded, and which he believed to be Cobbett's [lord Castlereagh bowed assent,] did, at the time when it paid the duty, contain news, sad especially when parliament was sitting; ever since it had ceased to pay the duty it contained no articles of public intelligence.Mr. Brougham
pro tanto said, it was impossible to deny that this arrangement would relieve that portion of the army which was now employed in the dock-yards, and pro tantoMr. Croker
573 said, if he understood the hon. baronet correctly, the nature of his proposition was, that 2,000 men should be added to the marines, which would have the effect of releasing 2,000 of the military force of the country from the duty they now performed in the dockyards. Therefore, when an increase of the military force was called for, the House ought to keep in view, that by this new measure, 2,000 men would be virtually added to the military establish-
573Mr. J. P. Grant
 could hot state the exact reason, but the officers who made the estimate found that the addition was necessary.Sir G. Warrender
 said, that gentlemen were not correct in supposing that the dock-yard duty was entirely performed by the military of late years. The fact was, a part of that duty had always been intrusted to the corps of marines.Sir G. Warrender
 stated, that with respect to the guard-ships it was not intended to make any alteration in the system which had been approved of by the House last year, and which rendered that species of force more efficacious. The reasons, founded chiefly on a principle of economy, which he had detailed to the House in the last session, operated to reduce the number of guard-ships. But, if the hon. baronet supposed them to be in a state of inefficiency, he had formed an erroneous opinion. With respect to the armament destined for South America, to which the hon. baronet had alluded, it was not fitted out so tardily as he imagined. One of the vessels, the Superb, commanded by sir T. Hardy, was in the Sound, with all her stores on board, in four days after the orders were issued for her equipment, and her complement of men was speedily completed. With respect to the increased number of marines, it would be most advantageous. If an armament were ordered to be equipped, these men would be ready for service, and the military might undertake the dock-yard duty, as before.Sir G. Warrender
572 proceeded to address the committee. He said he could anticipate no opposition to the resolutions which he held in his band, which merely
572Sir G. Warrender
 said, in proposing this vote, he relied on the judgment and opinion of those gentlemen who belonged to the department and whose duty it was to look into and consider the subject. Better authority he thought he could not have. He could not presume to go into minor details of this kind; and when he received from official authority, a statement that such a charge was correct, and that it must be laid before parliament, he felt himself justified in coming down to the House and proposing the vote.Sir G. Warrender
 inquired whether the hon. baronet meant to make any addition to the guard-ships, which he described as being in a very bad situation. Considerable difficulty was encountered at present in fitting out men of war, as was exemplified in the case of two line of battle ships that were lately sent to a distant quarter of the globe. The seamen were now placed on the preventive service: they were employed under the command of the chancellor of the exchequer, in preventing smuggling. When they came back from a service of that kind, they were generally more fond of the gin-cag than of the gunpowder-cask. There was not a naval officer, he believed, who would not, for the duties of reefing, steering, splicing, or fighting the enemies of their country, take any other set of men, in preference to those who had been placed on this service. When the hon. baronet asked them to vote 2,000 men more than were called for last year, he hoped he would not refuse to give the House some information on the points he had alluded to.Sir Joseph Yorke
 entered his protest against the measure now proposed. He thought that it most materially affected the interests of the country; some of the other bills were local and temporally; this was general and permanent; he, there-fore, felt himself bound to raise his voice against a bill which made so important an alteration in the laws of England.Sir M. W. Ridley
595 having moved the order of the day for the second reading of the Seditious Meetings Prevention bill, Mr. M. A. Taylor begged leave to ask a question of the noble lord, whether it was the intention of his majesty's ministers to propose any alteration or amendment in the bill, or to allow it to stand in the state it then was: he was proceeding to discuss the matter, when the Speaker called him to order. Mr. M. A. Taylor resumed, and observed, that it was not his
595Lord Castlereagh
600599598597 congratulated the House on the candid speech which had just fallen from the hon. gentleman, and said he flattered himself, that after the question should be fully investigated, and, after the true character of the measures which his majesty's government had thought it necessary to recommend should be fully developed, in addition to the vote of the hon. gentleman, those measures would claim and obtain the support of many other hon. gentlemen, who were not in the habit of acting politically with his majesty's ministers. In undertaking the duty which he was about to perform, he must request the indulgence of the House. It was a duty which, in consequence of the absence of his hon. and learned friend had been suddenly cast upon him since he came down to the House; and he must in treat the indulgence of the House with respect to the manner of his performing the task. Of course he was familiar with all the details of the measures in question; but it was a very different thing to be acquainted with those details, and to be pre-pared suddenly to unfold them with the distinctness and precision so desirable on such an occasion. He would endeavour,
600599598597The Solicitor General
607606605604603certiorari602601 said, that in order to meet the wishes of his hon. and learned friend, he would treat the subject as he had advised, and touch as lightly as possible upon the other measures to be introduced, but the evils which the House were called upon to counteract, formed a combined system, and could only be counteracted by another system equally combined in its nature; and therefore the bearing of one measure upon another, as if one evil upon another, could not be lost sight of. The first point to which he wished to direct the attention of the House was, the bill to be introduced for restraining the liberty of the press. The object of this measure was, as he before stated, to restrain the publication of those cheap pamphlets, which had occasioned such mischief in the country. There was not any man who more zealously advocated the liberty of the press than he did. The liberty of the press and the trial by jury were the main pillars which supported the constitution; and he could assure the House that he was the last man in the country who would advocate the invasion of either of those inestimable privileges of the people. But what was the character of the publications to which he alluded? What were the evils to be apprehended from them? They were sold at such a price as afforded the lowest orders an opportunity of perusing them. The persons who sold them were men of no property or character; and besides, they were very difficult to be come at. Those persons declared, and with truth, that those publications were a powerful engine in their hands; and that the people were, and must continue to be strongly influenced by them—Was it then too much to expect, that the publishers of such pamphlets should give security for the payment of such penalties as might be imposed on them for an abuse of the powers
607606605604603certiorari602601The Solicitor General
621"Inde domum."—"ipsa silentia terrent.620619d.s.l.618prima facie617616 declared, that he felt much difficulty in rising to reply to his hon. and learned friend, the solicitor-general, both because his hon. and learned friend had spoken so ably, and because he had carried the House along with him by the enthusiasm of his eloquence. But, difficult and painful as he felt this task, he should feel it more difficult and painful to refrain from expressing his sentiments on the present important occasion. His hon. and learned friend, travelling in his speech with the greatest rapidity from London to Glasgow, could see nothing in every face that he met but treason and sedition. To the apprehensions of his hon. and learned friend on this subject he could not subscribe. If the bill immediately under consideration were of the character of the Training bill and the Seizing for Arms bill, he should have no hesitation in reposing confidence to ministers to that extent, but he could not consent to entrust them with powers which appeared to him to be inconsistent with the general interests of the people, and with the integrity of the constitution. In his hon. and learned friend's speech, in the speech from the throne—in the very circumstance of parliament's being brought together at that moment, there was involved this most important avowal, namely, that all the experiments hitherto resorted to—that all the restrictions already passed with regard to the rights of the people, and more especially, as his hon. and learned friend had expressed it, the suspension for a twelvemonth, of those rights, without which, no British subject could be considered a free man—that these had all failed in staying the progress of the evil, or in restoring that which ought to be a common object to all of them—the peace, happiness, and prosperity of the country. It was confessed, that since the adoption of those measures, the evil had, instead of diminishing, gone on continually augmenting. Surely there was here enough to make them pause. But instead of that, ministers now came down determined to persevere still further, and such was the fatal progress of their violence, that having arrived at our present state (and there could be no worse symptom than the complacency
621"Inde domum."—"ipsa silentia terrent.620619d.s.l.618prima facie617616Mr. Macdonald
656655 was unwilling to obtrude himself upon the House at that late hour, but he could not allow the question to
656655Mr. Philips
661bona fide660659658657 declared that, after the full discussion which this important subject had undergone, and after the frequent occasions on which he had troubled the House, nothing but a strong sense of duty would have induced him again to come forward for the purpose of making a few remarks on what had fallen from the hon. member who had just taken his seat. He should confine his observations strictly to one or two points, and he would not have spoken at all could he with candour and fairness have suffered the House to separate without stating unreservedly the impression on his mind. As to the principle of the bill, he begged the House to consider the true and narrow issue on which the vote of to-night depended. Every hon. member must give his support to the second reading who did not think the measure totally incapable of being so altered and modified in the committee as to make it suit his particular views; so that every gentleman not disputing the principle, and who thought that something ought to be done in the present state of the country on the question now before the House, would give his vote in favour of the objects ministers had in view. Thus nobody would be pledged as to the details, which could be modified as the House in a future stage might deem expedient. The point to which he wished to advert, and which, indeed, had induced him to rise, related to the appeal made to ministers to assent to two propositions—the one for making the bill local, and the other for rendering it temporary. On these terms some hon. gentlemen had expressed a willingness to conciliate, and had in-
661bona fide660659658657Lord Castlereagh
 explained, that when he spoke of a bill for two, three, or six months, he meant it only to last until the inquiry had been concluded; and then he should be disposed, if a case were made out, to intrust ministers even with a stronger measure.Lord Folkestone
635634633632631630629l.628627626625624623 wished to give his opinion on one or two subjects, which had been so often discussed in that House, that he should fear to offend by the mere repetition, if he did not feel it of some importance that he should speak on them, having been prevented from doing so by indispe-
635634633632631630629l.628627626625624623Mr. Peel
645644 felt it proper to submit a few observations to the House, in consequence of what bad fallen from his hon. and learned friend on the floor with respect to the probable condition of the magistracy, should the present measure become a part of the permanent law of the land. He meant as to the question whether, in the event of any lord lieutenant, or sheriff, refusing to call a county meeting, five of those magistrates, who were generally nominated by the lord lieutenant, were likely to do so. Some circumstances had come to his knowledge which he thought it necessary to state, in order to put the House on its guard upon this subject. It happened, he was sorry to say, that there had been of late years several contested elections in Norfolk, the consequence was the excitement of an angry party spirit throughout all classes, and the lord lieutenant of that county not being on the popular side of the question, was of course decidedly hostile to his (Mr. Coke's) principles and connexions. That nobleman, some time ago, was pleased to exclude from the commission of the peace, some gentlemen of most unexceptionable character, and whose landed property in the county entitled them to the distinction, but who happened to belong to the whig party. This extraordinary proceeding was represented to him (Mr. C.) and he was solicited to apply to the nobleman alluded to upon the subject. His answer, however, was, that he would not condescend to make any such application, but that he would refer the case to lord Eldon. To lord Eldon he did accordingly refer, and from that noble lord he met the reception which he expected from a just man and a gentleman. Lord Eldon, indeed, after observing, that it was not at the discretion of the lord lieutenant to exclude gentlemen from the commission of the peace, as that
645644Mr. Coke
650649648647646 expressed his surprise and regret to hear his hon. and learned friend and his noble friend declare their intention to vote for the motion before the House, upon the condition that the bill should be temporary and local, while they heard the hon. and learned solicitor-general and the right hon. member for Oxford state the resolution of ministers to render it permanent and universal. But it would teem from what his hon. and learned and his noble friend had said, that they had not read the bill before the House. From that bill it appeared that while its advocates professed so much respect and regard for the right of petitioning, the exercise of that right must become impracticable, for any efficient purpose, from the number of restrictions meant to be imposed upon it. The hon. and learned gentleman who opened the debate, had described the measure as still leaving untouched the right of meeting to as great an extent as was necessary for an expression of public opinion, and for conveying to the throne or the legislature the wishes or the grievances of the people. The bill provided, said the hon. and learned gentleman, for a county-meeting, if called by the lord lieutenant of the county, by the high sheriff, by the grand jury, or by five magistrates. As to the lord-lieutenant, it was the first time he had ever heard of his calling county-meetings; as to the sheriff, why, there were instances lately of that officer refusing to call meetings upon the requisition of numerous and respectable bodies of freeholders. The grand jury, as formed by the high sheriff, might partake of his party spirit, and it might not be possible to procure the consent of five magistrates, degenerate as the magistracy might become, and appointed by the Crown as they always were. Was it not probable, then, that all those parties might become disinclined to public meetings, and thus deprive the county of all means of expressing its opinions on public measures? Upon the fair, or popular, or impartial exercise of such a right, it would, indeed, be absurd to calculate, especially from the course which ministers appeared determined to pursue, For they had proclaimed to the country in the dis-
650649648647646Lord Folkestone
, in explanation, said, that however mistaken by the noble lord, he thought he had qualified his expressions respecting the meeting at Manchester sufficiently to guard himself from the suspicion of not feeling as deeply as any hon. gentleman could for the calamity of that day. The noble lord had certainly quoted his words correctly, but he appealed to the House, to believe, that though he had in words accompanied they observation with no qualification, yet it was far from his feeling to give utterances to any expression that bordered on inhumanity. He never under-rated the evil attendant on the dispersion of the Manchester meeting and the only reason why he thought it better than if it had taken another course, was that if that meeting had not been dispersed another would have taken place, and a collision might have ensued between the military and the people, in which much more blood would have been shed. He was anxious to state that such was his sense of the transaction, lest his expressions might be misrepresented.Mr. Peel
 said, that when he quoted the words of the right hon. gentleman, he by no means imputed to him any improper feeling. But he must be allowed to state, in answer to the right hon. gentleman's explanation, that as to the probability of a more mischievous result at Manchester from future meetings, in other places second and third meetings of a similar character had taken place, and no blood had been shed.Lord Folkestone
 here observed, that in such cases the whole body could meet.The Solicitor General
677 begged leave to put a question to his hon. colleague respecting the conduct of a noble friend of his that had been alluded to by the learned gentle-
677Mr. Wodehouse
 replied, that certainty, soon after the noble lord's appointment to the lord-lieutenancy, such a proposal had been made; and that accordingly a list was drawn up and presented the noble lord; but that none of the gentlemen named in the list had been appointed. [Loud cheers from the opposition,] He (Mr. Coke), however applied to the lord chancellor, who, after observing that he did not think Mr. Coke would nominate any person who was not fit for the commission, did appoint then all, with the exception of one hon. friend of his, a member of that House.Mr. Coke
 defended the conduct of the sheriff of Wiltshire.Mr. Long Wellesley
643 said, he was about to tender his vote for the motion, not in any confidence in his majesty's ministers, but from ocular demonstration of the actual necessity of some legislative measures, and upon the grounds and conditions which had been so ably described by his hon. and learned friend who had just sat down. If he were asked the causes of the existing state of things, and of the dissatisfaction unhappily prevailing among the people, he would state, distress. The first cause, the second cause, the third cause, was distress, and the utter inability of the people to obtain adequate subsistence from any application of their labour. No man could condemn more than he did the large and tumultuous meetings which had of late so much
643Lord A. Hamilton
 said, he would support the measures before the House, because he thought there never was a period when that House was more imperatively called upon to adopt strong measures to put down the disaffection which existed, and which, if not checked in time, would destroy the deluded people themselves, and subsequently the trade of the country. Advantage had been taken of the distress which prevailed to inflame the minds of the poor; but it was not in the districts where distress most prevailed that the people had been most clamorous. He reprobated the seditious and blasphemous publications which had lately issued from the press, and called upon the House, by putting them down, to defend the peace, good order, and religion, of the country, He valued the rights of the people as much as any man, and he would not give a vote which could in any degree infringe on those rights, if he did not think circumstances required it.Mr. Davenport
, in explanation, said, he had meant no personal offence to that or any other sheriff.Mr. Brougham
676675 continued—Then the meeting could not take place without the consent of the mayor. He had thought his hon. and learned friend was better acquainted with his own bill. But his hon. and learned friend had better not have touched upon this part of the question in the course of his speech. But to return to the point to which he was calling the attention of the House. Those small parishes would feel the pressure of this bill, whilst in the larger ones, it could easily be evaded, or would in effect not operate at all so as to guard against danger. The bill supposed that the meetings were only assembled under pretence of discussing matters connected with church or state; but nothing was more easy for them than to say, "We'll have no such, discussion at all; we have been tired with long speeches," [Cheers from several parts of the House.] He said that gentlemen might be tired of long speeches: he felt so too; but he could assure them, that in this instance his was the speech of a person who conceived he was performing a serious and important duty. But, if gentlemen did not wish to hear more speaking, they had a remedy in their power. They might act upon their profession, and retire to their homes, and he was certain they (the opposition); would not be much the worse for it. [Hear, and a laugh.] But, to return—the persons assembled might say, that they were tired of long speeches, and of the nonsense contained in them: and give up discussing political questions altogether. They might, if their intentions were so bad as the noble lord supposed them to be—and it was only on the supposition of bad intentions that this bill was necessary—they might, as was done in another country, assemble for the purpose of attending a funeral, or for a literary purpose, and discuss the dead languages, or to discuss a question of grammar; and it might be recollected, that one amongst them had written a grammar, so good indeed as to be in high
676675Mr. Brougham
 rose, and observed, that the hon. and learned member had mistaken him. What he had said was, that it would be difficult to consider any one of the measures proposed without looking to them as a whole. The hon. and learned member seemed to be about to go into a discussion of the other measures, which he conceived was rather premature.Mr. Brougham
674673672l.671670669668non constat,667l.666665664 rose amidst cries of question from the ministerial side of the House, and calls equally loud from the opposition benches for him to proceed. He said he did not mean to trouble the House at any great length on account of the indisposition under which he laboured; but, at the same time, he could not pass over the speech of the noble lord opposite, without pressing on their attention the important points which it contained. It now appeared, in the appropriate language of the hon. member for Northumberland, and of an hon. gentleman who had recently sat down, what sort of conciliation they were to expect from the noble lord. They now knew what value to put upon his declaration, when he said, that if gentlemen on his (Mr. Brougham's) side of the House showed a disposition to meet him half way, he would endeavour to render that meeting joyful by approaching them. But now it appeared that he would not give them the slightest token of conciliation. His conciliatory nature would only concede to the country and the constitution those points which he stated
674673672l.671670669668non constat,667l.666665664Mr. Brougham
, as he had been referred to as ascribing the existing disaffection to distress, wished to explain what he had said on a former meeting. After the last prorogation of parliament, he stated mischievous men to have gone forth in the country, to inflame the minds of the ignorant. The existing distress had produced such effect on their minds, that the machinations of the disaffected were more successful than they would otherwise have been. This he believed, but he had never said that the whole of the disaffection arose from distress. The distress had first collected audiences to listen to the doctrines of sedition preached to them, and by constantly hearing these doctrines, the people had at last become partisans of them.Lord Lascelles
642641640 said, that upon so important a subject as the one before them, he must explain his reasons for the vote which he meant to give. From all that he had heard, after most attentively watching the progress of the discussion in one of the most diffuse debates at which he was ever present, he collected that there were three parties, entertaining distinct opinions upon the bill under consideration; one consisting of those who agreed with the noble lord, and thought that it ought to be immediately adopted; the second, of those who entirely opposed it; and the third, of those who thinking something was necessary to be done; yet thought that the bill should be neither general nor permanent. To the third party he himself inclined, and therefore his vote for the second reading of this bill should be conditional—namely, that its existence and operation should be temporary and local. It was perfectly impossible to hear those, who said that the disorders (out of which arose this measure) were not local, without feeling how completely they were contradicted by the facts of the case. It was quite impossible to look at those facts, or at the papers upon the table, and say that those disorders really extended beyond the counties which were strictly and properly called the manufacturing districts. Every one knew their relative proportion and extent; and it was equally impossible therefore, at the same time, not to be aware how large a portion both of England and Scotland was excluded from that description. From the statement of the right honourable member for Oxford it distinctly appeared that there were causes for discontent in the manufacturing districts, which it was desirable to remedy, and which could not possibly exist elsewhere. The right honourable
642641640Mr. Abercromby
622 admitted the danger that existed, and could not see any reason
622Mr. Fazakerley
 hoped the House would indulge him with a few minutes, when they considered that he represented that county which might be termed the head-quarters of the Scotch radicals. He had for the last twelve months held communication with the manufactures of that and the adjacent counties, and he found that there were three classes of people who contributed to the present alarming state of things. The first, and by far the most extensive class, was that of persons almost in a state of starvation; the second, that of persons who maintained conscientiously opinions, in his estimation, erroneous; and the last, was that of persons whom he believed to have no object but that of revolution. Under these circumstances, conciliation, he thought, should have been the first step. He concluded with expressing his determination to vote for the committee, but with an understanding that the bill should be there rendered local and temporary.Mr. Maxwell
empty stomachs!"663 said, he could not agree to the bill as it at present stood, but if the noble lord, and the gentlemen who supported him, would consent that the measure should not be permanent, he would not oppose it. If it were passed for three, or even for four years, it should, with the exception of one or two clauses, receive his support. But, unless ministers could show that the causes which called for it were of a permanent nature, how could that House be justified in legislating permanently? During the last twenty years, he had observed a great deal of commercial distress; and he had uniformly remarked, that in proportion to the existing distress was the political dissatisfaction expressed by the people. The existing distress he knew to be most extensive and
empty stomachs!"663Mr. John Smith
639638l.l.637636 perfectly agreed with the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down, as to the magnitude of the danger by which the country was threatened, nevertheless he was not willing to infringe on any of those liberties which we had hitherto enjoyed. He also thought, that the popular assemblies so well described by the hon. gentleman, and so mischievously conducted by itinerant orators, ought to be suppressed. For this purpose he was willing to assent to any proper measures: but he would take the liberty of saying, that it was the incumbent duty of that House, in whatever measures they might think it advisable to adopt, to confine themselves strictly to the degree of danger which existed, and not to legislate beyond the danger. He had read the bill now before the House, and he thought the remedy which it proposed, (if remedy that could be called which was itself a mortal disease) ten thousand times worse than the evils it was intended to suppress. This bill appeared to him to be characterized by any tiling but wisdom, and in many respects to be decidedly objectionable. He alluded particularly to the clause which tended to enact, that if in a quarter of an hour a stranger did not withdraw himself from any meeting, in half an hour that meeting, however salutary and necessary it might be, should be dispersed as illegal, and its chairman and orators would become liable to the penalty of transportation, that clause which referred to the course which was to be adopted, if persons attending meetings did not withdraw, upon proclamation being made to depart. This was a clause which was calculated to produce extremely injurious consequences; inasmuch as it might affect ignorant persons, and in all events left the decision of the character of the meeting to the caprice of a single individual. Another reason why he thought this bill was
639638l.l.637636Mr. Smyth
596 said, it was not his intention to detain the House at length, but he wished to avail himself of the opportunity of expressing the opinion he entertained of the general proposition, of which the bill before the House formed a part, and which engaged the almost exclusive attention of the country at large. He confessed that he stated that opinion under feelings of greater pain than any he had experienced, from the first hour of his sitting in that House to the moment at which he spoke; for his sense of public duty compelled him to adopt a course decidedly opposite to that pursued by his hon. friends near him, with whom he had hitherto had the gratification of being politically connected, and with whom, notwithstanding this exception, he hoped to remain politically connected for life. He was one of those who had abstained from giving any vote, either on the amendment proposed by his right hon. friend to the address, or on the motion made by his noble friend on Tuesday. He had so abstained from feelings of a personal nature, and in doing so was not aware that he had been guilty of any dereliction of his public duty. He could assure his right hon. and his noble friend, that the only motives which induced him to abstain from voting on the occasions which he had mentioned were, his personal regard and affection for his right hon., and his respect for his noble friend. He could no longer, however, allow any private feeling to interfere with that line of conduct which his public duty seemed to him to
596Mr. Grenfell
 observed, that he felt it his duty to exculpate that part of the county of York, denominated the North Riding, from the charge of disaffection, which had been levelled indiscriminately at Yorkshire in general terms. He had been long connected with it, and he never had heard of the existence of political disaffection or irreligion in that district. Under these circumstances he should have preferred local measures of restriction.Mr. Crompton
 expressed his unwillingness to intrude upon the House, but he was desirous of correcting an observation made by the noble lord. The noble lord had stated, on the authority of the mayor of Newcastle, that 700 armed men marched to the meeting from a neighbouring village. The fact however was, that having used every endeavour on the spot, to obtain evidence; he could not find a single person who could state that he had seen any arms upon that occasion. He did not state this as a matter of triumph to any party, and he meant to vote that the bill should be committed; but before he gave his final sanction to any measure, he must have full assurance that it was calculated to remove the evil. He trusted that as the whole of the country did not appear to be in a disturbed state, the bill would be made limited in its operation. He was perfectly willing to admit that the abominable doctrines which had of late been circulated with so much assiduity, were calculated to plunge the people into every mischievous excess, and were subversive of every thing valuable in the country; but he was persuaded that the evil did not proceed altogether from the restlessness of the people, but was principally attributable to the great distress which existed. Whether or not that distress proceeded from misrule he was not prepared to say.Mr. Beaumont
615614613612611610609608 rose to offer his opinion On the measures proposed by ministers, as well as on the recent proceedings in the country. He expressed his regret at being on this occasion obliged to differ from those honourable friends with whom he was in the habit of acting—indeed, nothing but an imperious sense of duty could induce him to do so—a conviction that the proposed measures were necessary to the safety of the state. If he were influenced merely by party principles, which, in general, he believed to be public principles, he certainly should co-operate with his right hon. friend, especially after the extraordinary speech of a noble lord, who, in contradiction to the usual mild and manly manner in which he performed his parliamentary duties, had
615614613612611610609608Mr. Lyttelton
*653652prima facie651 said, that being fully sensible of the dangers which had given rise to the measures proposed, he considered those measures as calculated to preserve the liberties of the people, instead of infringing on them. There was, he said, a material distinction between liberty—a rational liberty—and licentiousness; for every physical good in the world, if carried to an extreme, would become an evil. The very air we breathe, the heat that fructifies the earth, the light from Heaven became noxious if unmodified; even our virtues might, by their excess, approximate to vice, nor is it otherwise with liberty. And when we now see her frantic
*653652prima facie651Mr. Wilmot
 then rose to address the House, but the noise was so incessant that it was impossible to collect what the hon. baronet said.Sir W. De Crespigny
654** could not agree with the arguments which had been advanced in favour of the bill by his hon. friend, who appeared to him not to be sufficiently acquainted with the object which the bill had in view, when he said that its effect would not be the total uprooting of the most valuable privilege of Englishmen, the right of assembling to discuss their grievances, and of petitioning for redress. His hon. friend did not seem to be aware where the proceedings which were now in the train of receiving the sanction of the legislature would end.—The bill purported to have for its object the suppression of illegal meetings; but all meetings would be by it prevented, except such as it might please certain persons to assemble. His hon. friend, whose attachment to the constitution could not be doubted, was mistaken in
654**Lord Milton
 trusted that the House would indulge him in a few observations, after the allusion which the hon. and learned gentleman had made to his conduct on a recent occasion. He had yet to learn, that because a man held an official situation, he was thereby disqualified from giving any opinion upon, or taking any part in, questions of public interest. He had pursued and would pursue, without consulting the hon. and learned gentleman, or caring whether it met his applause or disapprobation, that line of conduct which appeared to himself to be the most proper. He, and those who had acted with him on the occasion alluded to, (in signing the counter requisition in Hampshire) had acted from a well-understood sense of duty, and in doing so, had consulted the best interests of the country; and he was sorry that others had not followed a similar course. Whatever the learned gentleman might think or say of the conduct of an illustrious individual, that opinion would not lessen the debt of gratitude which his country owed him; and he would be bold to say, that the respect of that illustrious individual for the constitution of his country was not less than that of the learned gentleman himself. If one person had a right to call on the sheriff of a county for a meeting, he could see no reason why another had not a right to sign a requisition against it. By the conduct of those who had signed the counter-requisition in Hampshire, that country had been saved from the disgrace of those unwarrantable and unconstitutional attacks that had been made on the Manchester magistrates.Lord Palmerston
 said, he wished to put to his right hon. friend a question of considerable importance to Ireland, respecting the repeal or continuance of certain duties, which, by the act of union, were to be collected for twenty years after the passing of that act. They were duties imposed on articles imported into Ireland, being of British produce or manufacture. In the present situation of Ireland, with respect to manufactures, it was of great moment to those interested, that they should be acquainted with what his majesty's government intended to do, with reference to this subject, in the present session of parliament: for in this session it must be decided, whether those duties should or should not be continued. His right hon. friend had, in courtesy to him, stated the course that was intended to be taken; but it was extremely important, that by a statement made in his place, the public in Ireland should also be apprized of his right hon. friend's intention.Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald
 was quite aware of the great importance of the question put by his right hon. friend. The subject was one of the utmost interest, and he was bound to say, had engaged the previous attention of the Treasury. Sufficient time had not elapsed to enable them to come to a final decision. But he must state to his right hon. friend, that a farther continuance of the duties, beyond the period to which they were now restricted, appeared to him to be unavoidable. But, whether that term would be longer or shorter, and whether it would be advisable that the measure should be one of temporary or permanent policy, it was not in his power to say.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
700 did not mean to express any opinion on the subject; but he was anxious that those persons who were interested should bring their case before parliament, when he hoped a just and liberal view would be taken of it. He now begged to put another question to his right hon. friend. When parliament separated at the close of the last session, it was in the recollection of the House, that a bill was about to be submitted to its consideration, for regulating the distilleries of Ireland. In consequence of that measure, which had reference to illicit distilleries, having been abandoned,
700Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald
 said, perhaps the noble lord would now state what alterations were contemplated; particularly, whether it was intended that the bill should be temporary or permanent.Mr. Tierney
702§ said, if he gave an explanation on one point, he must follow
702§Lord Castlereagh
 said, he was only anxious to know, whether the noble lord had altered his opinion with respect to the passing a permanent measure. He could not see how an answer to such a question could provoke a debate. The noble lord's wrath against the people, which he had so strongly displayed within the last twenty-four hours, afforded but slight grounds for supposing that he had changed his opinion.Mr. Tierney
.— I feel no wrath against the people. I am only doing my duty.Lord Castlereagh
 said, he conceived yesterday, that after the debate was over, the noble lord meant to state a general outline of the alterations he intended to make; but now he found the explanation would not be given until Monday. He wished, most undoubtedly, for the convenience of himself and other gentlemen, to know the extent to which the noble lord meant to press the measure. As he would not give him that information, and as he had no means of compelling him, he would take another opportunity, when the House was apprized of the noble lord's intention, to state the light in which he viewed the measure.Mr. M. A. Taylor
 gave notice, that he would in the committee, on Monday next, pro-, pose that the bill should not be permanent, but temporary.Mr. Tierney
703 rose, not for the purpose of discussing the question before them, but because he felt bound to state his opinions to the House and the country, in consequence of a statement made by a noble earl in another place, that there were 14,000 or 15,000 men on the banks of the Weir and the Tyne, ready for rebellion. Without in any way accusing those from whom the noble earl received his information (of whom he had no knowledge), or supposing, for a moment, that the noble earl made the statement in any other than the most temperate manner, yet, residing, as he did, in that neighbourhood, employing many of the inferior classes of the population, as he did, and representing the county of Durham, as he
703Mr. Lambton
705704 begged to be allowed to mention a few facts, illustrative of the real character of the meeting which had been held in the neighbourhood of New-
705704Sir M. W. Ridley
 observed, that whether the 700 men who marched to Newcastle from a neighbouring village were armed or not, was immaterial. What had fallen from the hon. baronet was perfectly sufficient to show that there were abundant grounds for apprehension and vigilance. That a meeting of between 30,000 and 40,000 persons had assembled, of whom 7,000 formed a regularly organized body, was a fact on which comment would be superfluous.Lord Castlereagh
 brought in a bill "to make certain publications subject to the Duties of Stamps upon Newspapers; and to restrain the Abuses arising from the publication of blasphemous and Seditious Libels.'' On the motion, that it be read a first time,Lord Castlereagh
701 thought it would be more regular if but one question were asked at a time. As to what the noble lord had said with respect to the regulations between Great Britain and Ireland, he admitted that the subject was one which ought to be fully inquired into; but any change in the system must evidently be a matter of ulterior consideration. With respect to the legal doubt that had been suggested by the hon. baro-
701The Chancellor of the Exchequer
706 rose to object to this bill even in its first stage. He conceived that all the bills lately introduced into the House tended to abridge the liberty of the subject. The present bill, however, went to abridge the liberty of the press, which he conceived to be the great pillar of the constitution; he, therefore, could not let it pass without entering his protest against it. As other opportunities would occur, when he could enter
706Mr. Brougham
 observed, that as the period to which the provisions in the articles of the union extended was on the point of expiring, he trusted that such arrangements would thenceforward be made as might conduce to the convenience of the members for Ireland; that a considerable part of the Irish business would be transacted at home, so that that House might not be troubled with the proceedings of Irish vestries, and that that useless piece of pageantry, the lord-lieutenancy of Ireland, might be got rid of.Sir H. Parnell
 wished clearly to understand on what ground a continuance of those duties was to be supported. He begged leave to ask, whether the article of the union by which those duties were imposed had been carefully examined, with a view of fully deciding whether or not the duties could be continued beyond the period of twenty years, without an infringement of that article? At the time the union was under consideration, the question of the duties was argued and discussed; and it was supposed, that when the act of union expired, the duties must expire with it, unless the article by which they were regulated was infringed. He wished to know what the opinion of the crown lawyers was—whether or not those duties could be continued, without violating the compact entered into between the two countries?Sir H. Parnell
 said, the subject of the duties imposed on goods imported into Ireland was one of the utmost importance to the manufactures of both countries, and he hoped that, when regulations were adopted, they would be rendered plain and intelligible. As the duties at present stood, the schedule was not sufficiently clear. Some circumstances, he understood, had in consequence taken place in the Custom-house in Ireland, the proceedings connected with which were considered vexatious on this side of the water.Lord Milton
759758, on moving the order of the day for the recommitment of this bill, thought it requisite to state to the House, before it went into the committee, certain alterations which he had made in the bill, and which he conceived might vary the opinions which certain hon. gentlemen had formed upon it. The recessity of the first alteration which he should mention to them was suggested by the consideration that the bill, as at present constituted, would affect certain meetings which were now held, and which had no relation whatever to either church or state. As the scope and object of this bill was not to suppress discussion, but merely to put down those large and tumultuous meetings which had of late so frequently menaced the public tranquillity, fee had excepted from the operation of it the meetings held by the different trades, in order to consider any public matter of grievance affecting their interests. He had once thought of limiting the numbers attending such meetings; but as there
759758Lord Castlereagh
760 trusted, that if either the right hon. gentleman or any other hon. member proposed an amendment to that effect, they would not limit the duration of the measure in question to too short a time; for he could assure them, that nothing would, in his opinion, be more prejudicial to the safety of the country, than to pass such a bill for an inadequate period. At the same time he would candidly inform them, that if the period which they proposed appeared to him sufficiently long, he would not object to their amendment. What he conceived ought to be the shortest period was five years, and to the end of the session of parliament ensuing immediately after their
760Lord Castlereagh
 said, that if the instructions to the committee were of a general nature, he should not oppose them: if they were specific, he should oppose, or amend, or agree to them, as he should think good, after they were proposed to the House.Lord Castlereagh
764 expressed his satisfaction at what had fallen from the noble lord, and entirely concurred in the alterations suggested. He concurred also in the principle of the bill immediately before the House: in Ireland it had been carried into execution with effect, and without danger, though he could not persuade himself that it could be made local in Great Britain without an increase of the peril it was intended to diminish. One of the amendments of the noble lord he particularly approved, as without it the Catholics of Ireland would not have been able to assemble and approach the throne by petition. This change proved that it was not the design of ministers to interfere with the exercise of legitimate rights that did not endanger the security of the country. He might safely assert, that in no instance, for many years, had the meetings of the Catholics been attended
764Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald
, after lamenting, the painful necessity in which he found himself, of trespassing upon the attention of the House, after the speeches that were made by his hon. friends round him, warmly defended his hon. and gallant friend from the attack made upon him by the hon. member for Marlow. He was the more ready to repeat and justify every expression made use of by his hon. and gallant friend, as he was so much in the habit of connecting his feelings and interests with his own upon every occasion. Before he proceeded further, lie begged to ask ministers, whether it was their intention to extend the provisions of this Bill to Ireland?Mr. Hutchinson
 replied, that it was intended to include Ireland within the operation of the bill.Mr. Grant
784783782 resumed, and with great animation recalled the attention of the House to the speech of the noble lord, when he introduced this bill to their consideration—a bill which would be for ever connected with his name. Did not that noble lord, in his opening speech, contrast the peaceable state of Ireland with the disturbed condition of England?— Did he not express his pride and satisfaction at seeing what he termed the peaceable and prosperous state of a country with which he was so nearly connected? Why, then, did the noble lord talk of the peaceable and tranquil state of Ireland if he meant to visit that country with the pains and penalties of his bill of coercion? What was the noble lord's intention by adopting such a delusive course? Did he mean to deceive the seventy Irish members who voted with him on the former night, and to induce them to give their support, under the idea that though England was to be coerced, Ireland was to be free? When the noble lord, with his usual douceur of manner, and apparent modesty, even though introducing a measure of such tremendous con sequence, made this allusion to the state of Ireland, what was his meaning? Why the delusion? He intreated the Irish members to recollect the declaration of the noble lord as to the tranquillity of their country, and to couple it with what they now heard of the intention to include Ireland in the operation of this Bill [Hear, hear! and some coughing from the ministerial benches.] Gentlemen might interrupt him if they pleased; they might manifest a readiness to vote away the liberties of their own country, but they must give him leave to defend those of his—such at least as remained to his country in her present state. When the noble lord had talked of the prosperity of Ireland, he did not believe him, though he was ready to admit its peace and tranquillity, and to assert its claim for an exemption from the operation of these bills.— Nothing, he must say, could be more outrageous than the conduct of the noble lord, who, upon evidence of his own showing, part absurd, part anonymous, grounded the necessity of measures subversive of the most essential privileges of the constitution, notwithstanding the many flat contradictions which this evidence had received in both Houses of Parliament. It seemed the noble lord, even with his majorities, did not feel himself on quite as
784783782Mr. Hutchinson
, in explanation, disclaimed any intention of stating that the national character of England was degraded upon the continent, as the last speaker appeared to think.—What he meant to say was, that the policy and practice of the British cabinet was universally deemed to be disgraceful upon the continent—that in fact, that policy and practice were odious in the estimation of every intelligent man in Europe.Mr. Hutchinson
789 declared, that he was so: perfectly and entirely opposed to the bill, that no limitation could reconcile him to it. No case could be stated which would, for a moment, reconcile him to any measure that he deemed to be an infraction of the constitution; and he conceived it would be much better for ministers to take the responsibility of such a proceeding upon themselves, than to endeavour to procure for it the high sanction of that House. On the subject of the Manchester meeting, it was not his intention to detain hon. gentlemen for two minutes; but this he must say, they had been frequently told that they were not to prejudge the conduct or the motives of the magistrates of Manchester. His duty told him, that they were now assembled as the representatives of the people, and it was especially for them not to prejudge the people. Till evidence was offered such as was to be relied upon, to the contrary, he was bound not to suppose them guilty. In the whole course of the observations which had fallen from those who assumed a different position, he had heard but one remark in the shape of an argument; and that was, that the reforms which the meeting in question was assembled to discuss, were no other
789Sir Robert Heron
 took the opportunity of stating, in reference to what had been reported to have occurred in another place, that he did not believe the population of the northern districts alluded to could afford the numbers which were reported to be actually engaged in plans of disaffection. He at the same time was most confident that the noble duke who was said to have made the statement, would not have made it unless he fully credited it.Sir C. Monck
 stated, that until that night he had not the remotest idea that the bill was to extend to Ireland. What he had said in his speech went to charge the noble lord with the deception practised on the members of that part of the country, who thought they were alone imposing those severities on Great Britain. In the bill, as it now stood, there was no mention of the united kingdom.Mr. Hutchinson
 said, it was probable the hon. member was not in his place when he opened the subject to the House; if he was, it was impossible but he must have heard him directly state that it was intended that the bill should apply to every part of the kingdom.Lord Castlereagh
 contended that if the bill were limited to the short period proposed, it would, instead of good, be productive of considerable mischief. The hon. gentleman proceeded to notice the insurrection under Wat Tyler, and the historical acts connected with it; he also adverted to the disturbances that had been occasioned in Flanders by a party, like the radicals of the present day, wearing the distinguishing mark of white hats. After-adverting to several of the circumstances connected with public meetings, he arrived at the conclusion, that some permanent law was required for their regulation; and he concluded by repeating that he thought fourteen months much too short a period for the duration of this bill.Mr. Bankes
 wished to correct a misrepresentation, under which several honourable members appeared to labour in the course of the debate. A noble relative of his had never said that there were 100,000 men furnished with anus in the northern counties: he had never stated from his own knowledge whether they had arms or not; he had merely said, that their own estimate of their numbers and strength was to that amount.Lord Clive
803 said, he could not but regret that the question respecting the duration of the bill, should have been brought forward in the present stage of their proceedings: it would have been much more convenient, in his opinion, to have gone through the different clauses of the bill in the committee first, and to have settled the duration of it afterwards. If the clauses were filled up in that spirit of moderation which had marked the speech of the noble lord on the treasury bench, he should have felt the less difficulty in agreeing to the more extended term proposed; but if, on the contrary, when it came out of the committee, it contained what he considered as severe and unnecessary restrictions on the liberty of the subject, he should then vote for limiting its duration to the shortest possibly period. At present, the House were called upon to decide how long a bill should continue in force, the spirit and character of which they had yet to learn. As far as he could then judge, the period proposed by the motion was too short, and that proposed by the amendment too long; and he inclined to the opinion of the hon. member opposite (Mr. Buxton), that three years
803Mr. Marryat
804 did not consider the measure before the House an infringement upon the rights of the people. He denied that it confined that right; on the contrary, it left it undiminished. It was not illegal, according to the provisions of the act, to hold meetings within doors; and before the American war it never was the practice to hold meetings in the open air. It had been said that it was left to the discretion of officers of the Crown to call public meetings; but he did not know that the sheriffs of counties were generally speaking, liable to the influence of the Crown. He knew there was a spirit of loyalty throughout the kingdom that would be sufficient to put down, even by force of arms, the disloyal and disaffected; bus he had great confidence that it would
804Mr. Wynn
 said, he should vote for the amendment of the chancellor of the exchequer, though he was of opinion that it would have been more beneficial to the country, that the bill should have been made permanent [Loud cries from the opposition of "Move that it be made permanent."]Lord Cranley
793792 was desirous of taking the earliest opportunity to express his regret that he could not coincide in the motion of his hon. friend. It was of the very first importance that upon a subject of this nature there should be, if possible, an unanimity of opinion among them; and when his noble friend had stated his wish that the bill should be limited in its duration, and not permanent, he had hoped that he would have united all opinions. There were, however, very different opinions held, especially by the hon. gentleman who thought that no real or actual dangers threatened the country from within; but to such he was not now addressing himself. The case had been so frequently and so fully argued, that he had not the smallest hope of inducing any of them to recant their opinions. It was to those who thought it should be a temporary measure, that he now wished to address one or two ob-
793792The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 defended the conduct of the Irish members who supported the present measures, from the implication conveyed in the speech of the hon. member for Cork. It was asserted by him that seventy members from that part of the kingdom, were deceived by the noble lord as to the fact of their extension to Ireland. He denied any such inference. The Irish members who supported these measures of security did so under an irresistible impression of their necessity. It was because they had witnessed in then own country the symptoms and effects of a growing rebellion, that they hurried from their homes and families to ward off from this most favoured land those violences, the misery of which had been experienced in Ireland.Mr. Brownlow
 did not mean to say any such thing. All he had asserted was, that on public grounds it would be desirable to know the reasons which influenced the grand jury to ignore particular bills. They might have ignored them by adopting a particular rule, and acting upon it to the exclusion of a certain line of evidence, which, if admitted, would perhaps have led them to a different result.Mr. D. W. Harvey
779778l.l.777 could not agree that the true remedy for the grievances of this country was to be found in the multiplied and complicated provisions of the system now recommended to their adoption. So far from allaying the present discontents, or putting an end to existing evils, he believed these enactments would aggravate and increase them. There were, in his opinion, but two certain and effectual remedies; one, a diminution, or perhaps rather an equalization, of the taxes; the other, a parliamentary reform. The former was, perhaps, that which called for more immediate attention. There were many persons who had large property,
779778l.l.777Mr. D. W. Harvey
770 said, he was anxious very briefly to express his opinion on this subject. He thought that, in the course of this discussion, sufficient attention had not been given to the importance of the right to be curtailed. If the people's right of meeting and petitioning consisted only in the right of meeting to petition for the removal of grievances, it was not of so much importance, and the curtailment of it was not of such serious interest. But the right was, a right of meeting in such numbers, and showing such a front to ministers as would afford a hope that bad measures would be abandoned, and that public opinion would be respected.
770Mr. Ricardo
 stated, that the grand jury had made no such rule, nor refused any particular evidence.Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
 asked, whether the hon. member for Colchester meant to state that the grand jury refused to receive the evidence of Derbyshire?Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
, in consequence of his having been so pointedly alluded to, rose to submit a few observations. He certainly had been, no doubt unintentionally, very much misconceived. The hon. gentleman who spoke last was wrong in supposing that he had admitted, that a grand juror's oath threw too great a protection over him. He had said, that the Lancashire grand jury were able to justify their conduct, but that they would not violate their oaths. Unquestionably, however, that obligation might be removed by the interference of a superior court. The hon. member, he apprehended, had derived his facts from the statements contained in Mr. Hunt's petition; in which it was alleged, that the grand jury had been actuated by feelings and prejudices against him. He wished to speak with tenderness of all persons who addressed themselves to the House; but he must say, that there was no authority for the assertions of the hon. member in this respect.Lord Stanley
 thought that the most solemn course which the House could adopt would be to give mandatory instructions to the committee to limit the duration of the measure either to five years, or any other period which they might think proper to appoint.Mr. Tierney
 begged leave to correct the noble lord. He had only said, that he would make a motion to that effect, if no other member in the House was found willing to do it.Mr. Tierney
, of Wiltshire, hoped that three years would be sufficient for the operation of the measure, as before that period, 'something might be done to better the' condition of the people. He trusted that a select committee would be appointed to consider the distress of the country, and propose some relief.Mr. Benett
798797 troubled the House with reluctance, but it was overcome by a conviction of the necessity of stating the motives for his vote, on a question of such, acknowledged magnitude. He differed from the hon. gentleman who proposed that fourteen months should be the duration of the measure, as he was convinced that in that interval the existing ferment would not have subsided. Another and an invincible objection to it was, that if it were so limited, it was certain that at the end of a year it would be effectually defeated. But if he differed from the hon. member, he differed also from the noble lord. The period proposed by ministers was, he thought, much too long. When an inroad was made upon the constitution (and he considered this measure a most important inroad upon it), it ought to continue for the shortest possible period. Still more
798797Mr. Fowell Buxton
796l.795794 began by observing, that if the right hon. gentleman had not, in the termination of the speech, entered into a defence of the thanks which his majesty's ministers had given to the magistrates of Manchester for their conduct, he should not have now spoken upon that subject: it was his decided opinion, that in a transaction which involved the name of the Prince Regent, they should have taken more time, and exercised more care. The present proposition was wrong from the noble lord—the House might easily discover by what—by those large divisions which the noble lord had seen op-posed to him. The concession Was not owing to any sympathy for the people, to any feeling for their liberties, which were violated, to any wish for, or attempt at conciliation, no, but it was owing to the conduct of those independent gentlemen who had honestly exerted themselves to prevent the passing of so extraordinary a measure upon such grounds But what was the precedent resorted to for this measure? Why (and it showed the extremity to which the noble lord and his colleagues were reduced), the only one which could be found for this experiment on the liberties of the people—the only one which the noble lord could find, after rummaging over all his books—was the Grenville act; but the House should recollect, that in that case a power was
796l.795794Mr. Calcraft
763762761 said, it was now clear to the House, that the noble lord found the bill itself so faulty, that he was obliged to propose very material alterations in it. He hoped the noble lord would proceed in the same way, and would make alterations still more important. He did not think the measure was called for by the state of the public mind; he did not think the power or the influence of those who called themselves the leaders of the radical reformers, was at all of the nature that had been represented; he acknowledged, however, that it was both important and desirable that those persons should be put down; they should not exist in a well-regulated government. He would gladly
763762761Mr. Curwen
 rose to inform the House, that it was his intention, immediately after the Christmas recess, to bring the state of the representation under their notice. In order to explain the object which he had in view, he thought fit to state, that he should then move for leave to bring in a bill for the repeal of the Septennial act, and for the making of parliaments shorter and more frequent. At the same time he should propose the extension of the right of suffrage to all copyholders and householders paying direct taxes, and also the destruction of what were generally called the rotten-boroughs. In bringing the subject of parliamentary reform before the House, it might, perhaps, be requisite that he should explain his motives: he, therefore, made no hesitation in saying, that he did it because he deemed it a. subject in which all classes of his majesty's subjects, and particularly the middling and lower classes, were most deeply interested; and because he firmly believed that the compliance of the House with the feelings of the people on it, would tend more than any other measure to alleviate the present disturbances, at the result of which, if they were to be permanent, no man could look for a moment without experiencing the profoundest horror.Mr. Lambton
 bore testimony to the people of his county assembling in arms, and firing off pistols on retiring from the spot. He considered it under all circumstances, his duty not to oppose the measure of the noble lord. He saw no objection to its extending to the manufacturing districts for five years, and to the whole empire for one year.Mr. Maxwell
788787 rose, he said, to take notice of some erroneous and mischievous reports which had been lately propagated, and with the origination of which he could not suppose that government had any concern. He could not, indeed, suspect the members of the government of descending to any unworthy expedient for the purpose of producing an effect in debate. But he lamented to say, that some reports had recently gone forth from high authority, which were materially calculated, and which did actually operate, to affect the credit of the country.— He alluded particularly to the report mentioned elsewhere, that there were no less than 100,000 men in a state ready to
788787Mr. J. Smith
786785 was of exactly a contrary opinion to that expressed by the hon. gentleman respecting the character which this country sustained in the estimation of foreigners; for if any Englishman was not satisfied with that character, he must be unreasonable indeed. He did not know any thing of Parga; but with Genoa he had long been acquainted, and he knew that, whatever might have been the sufferings of that people, they did not ascribe those sufferings to England. If
786785Mr. Barham
 appealed to the House, whether, as had been imputed to him by the hon. gentleman who last spoke, he had said that the gallant general fought better than he spoke. As to the expression, that "the country was degraded," he had not said that it had been used in the course of this debate; it had been used three months ago by the gallant general on the hustings at Southwark.Mr. Grenfell
768 said, that he should not have risen but for the observations of his hon. friend who had just sat down. No person in the House heard the gallant officer with greater satisfaction than he did on any question but a political one: on those matters they were as far divided as the Poles. He had commenced by observing, that the noble lord deserved impeachment for introducing the measures now under consideration: if that impeachment were extended to individuals who heartily concurred with the noble lord,
768Mr. Grenfell
, presented a petition from Mr. W. G. Lewis, of Coventry, complaining of the interruption which had been recently given to a public meeting held in that town. The petition stated that a requisition, signed by six or seven hundred resident householders of Coventry, had been presented to the magistrates, desiring them to convene a public meeting for the purpose of taking into consideration the melancholy events which had occurred at Manchester. The mayor objected to the manner in which the requisition was worded, and refused to call a meeting for such a purpose. In consequence of this refusal, the requisitionists called a meeting on their own authority, and the mayor then objected to the place. Determined to avoid giving the constituted authorities any just ground of reproach, the requisitionists changed the place on which they originally intended to have held their meeting, to a green at some distance from the town, whereby they deemed it impossible for them to disturb the peace of the town. After all this caution had been exhibited on their part, they had not the slightest anticipation that any attempt would be made to interrupt their proceedings; but, to their great surprise, in the midst of them, a body of constables burst in, and endeavoured to destroy the harmony of the meeting. It appeared that the constables were not authorized by the mayor to make this interruption, but were merely sworn in to act if necessary. The hon. member said, he was at a loss to conceive why it was thought necessary to interrupt this legal meeting of the people. No doubt could be entertained of the loyal and orderly conduct of the people of Coventry. He had, in the course of the last session, occasion to present to the House a certificate from the mayor and magistrates of Coventry, bearing their testimony to the loyalty of the inhabitants. The petition, he said, prayed for an inquiry into the causes of the dispersion of that meeting, but after an inquiry had been refused in the case of Manchester, he had little hopes of having it granted in this.Mr. Peter Moore
775774773772771 said, he felt great reluctance in addressing the House; but his duty as the representative of so conspicuous a body superseded his reluctance. He concurred in the opinions of the hon. gentleman who spoke last, so far as
775774773772771Mr. Alderman Waithman
 thought that circumstances would necessitate a much stronger measure if the present were not carried.Lord Compton
800799 said, he was fully convinced that the bill would be attended with the
800799Mr. Perceval
791 observed, that it was unnecessary for him to take up much of the time of the House. He rose for the purpose of expressing, in the first place, his wish that an instruction might be given to the committee. But he trusted that every hon. member, who, like himself, belonged to no particular party, would not feel himself committed by the vote he might have given in regard to this bill. He meant to move, that an instruction be given to the committee, to the effect that they should limit the duration of the bill, so as that its operation might not extend beyond the 1st of March, 1821. It would have been most gratifying to his feelings if such a measure could have been altogether dispensed with. He was proud to say, that from the first moment in which he had had the honour of sitting in that House, he had kept himself quite unconnected with any
791Colonel Beaumont
 maintained, that a measure of this nature ought not to be passed for so long a period as five years, but from one session to six weeks after the commencement of the ensuing session, till the danger which called for it ceased to exist. The hon. member was proceeding, when he was called to order byColonel Beaumont
"I fly from petty tyrants to the throne.""Now, half a patriot, half a coward grown,802801, after complimenting his honourable young friend on the other side of the House, for the strong and ardent manner in which he had that evening-declared himself in support of the liberties of his country, gave his cordial thanks to the noble lord opposite, for having given up his intention to render the measure permanent. It was one of the peculiar excellencies of the British constitution, an excellency which none of the republics of old had ever enjoyed, to be able in times of popular commotion to strengthen the hands of the executive government; and afterwards, when the danger was past, to revert to our former state of liberty and freedom. He should have had great difficulty in bringing himself to vote for the measure, if the noble lord had determined
"I fly from petty tyrants to the throne.""Now, half a patriot, half a coward grown,802801Mr. Wilberforce
, who informed him, that if he had any alteration to propose in the bill, it must be either done in the committee, or by a mandatory instruction of the House to the committee, to take such alteration into their consideration.The Speaker
 said, he would vote for this measure because the constitution was in danger, and he was sworn to defend it.Sir Isaac Coffin
776 observed, that it seemed pretty generally admitted on all sides, that the evil arose from want of employment and from heavy taxes. Was it possible, then, to remove these causes of discontent? He should be most happy if the poorer and the labouring classes of so-
776Mr. Wilson
 said, he hoped the House would allow him to say a few words in explanation. He had never known Mr. Hunt before the meeting in Southwark; but he certainly did then give him his hand, because he conceived that he had been greatly injured, and because in Mr. Hunt's person, his own rights, and the rights of all, had been violated. He gave him his hand as a pledge that he would go hand in hand with him, to exert all his efforts as a representative in order to obtain redress. In doing so, he conceived that he did no more than his duty; but he would have felt himself disgraced if he had given his hand to any of those who had their hands stained with the blood of their countrymen, and of those who had sanctioned their conduct.Sir R. Wilson
767766Enforced us to this execution?The peace of England, and our person's safety,But that the extreme peril of the case,Proceed thus rashly,Or that we would, against the form of law,"What! think you we are Turks or Infidels!765 felt himself called upon to resist the principle of the bill, and the aggregate system of measures that were now to be imposed upon the country. He had had frequent opportunities of hearing them defended, but never successfully; and it was his conviction, from a strong sense of what was due to the good of his country, that the series of bills recently brought into parliament ought to subject the noble lord to articles of impeachment [Hear]. He repeated, that they ought to subject the noble lord to articles of impeachment, for they introduced capital innovations—they introduced arbitrary power, and subverted the real elements of the constitution. His object was not to use inflammatory language, not to excite feeling out of doors. This was a crisis when every member was bound to express his conviction strongly, that he might not aid and abet in the ruin of his country. The condition to which it was now reduced had been occasioned by misrule, by a total inattention to the views and wishes of the people; by a refusal to listen to their complaints and to redress their wrongs. This denial of justice, this determination not to listen but to proceed in the same wild career of extravagance, was heaping coals of fire on the heads of the people—pouring oil of vitriol into their angry wounds. The noble lord had taken credit to himself for lenity in these measures, inasmuch as he had not subjected to the penalty of death any person who persisted in remaining at a parochial meeting, though it had no riotous or tumultuous character, excepting what he derived from the presence of that individual; but he would assert that if this system was persevered in—if the government of the law was to be converted into a government of force—if tyranny was to be established on the ruins of liberty, he cared little who were to be the ministers of the Crown, or whether he himself was to be one of the first or the last of their victims. He would never relinquish the course he was pursuing; and he trusted that the people would never abandon the rights to which they were born. "Ad
767766Enforced us to this execution?The peace of England, and our person's safety,But that the extreme peril of the case,Proceed thus rashly,Or that we would, against the form of law,"What! think you we are Turks or Infidels!765Sir Robert Wilson
ex officio769 observed, that he had given all the attention in his power to the gallant knight's arguments, but he entertained a totally different opinion respect-
ex officio769Mr. V. Blake
 asked, what feelings ought to actuate the House when they passed their judgment on the present ministers, who, after acknowledging the value of the right of petition, had come forward and proposed to abrogate it for ever? The only right left by the present bill would be, not the right to meet, but the right to ask an officer of Crown for leave to meet.Lord Milton
 supported the motion; but as he spoke under the gallery, and in a low tone, we could not catch a complete sentence from the hon. member throughout his speech.Mr. Knox
808807 presented a petition from the lord mayor, alderman, and commons, of the city of London, in common council assembled; setting forth,
808807The sheriffs of London
810l.809 observed that, in moving that it be laid on the table, he should say a very few words. He could not, however, consent to give a silent vote upon these bills: he had attended with the utmost diligence to the protracted debate upon them, and had not heard a single argument to convince him that an inquiry ought not to be granted before they were passed. After commenting on the statement made by lord Castlereagh, of the immense number of stones found on the place of meeting at Manchester, the day after the meeting had occurred, and after treating as absurd the supposition of the noble lord, that the reformers had marched thirty or forty miles with these stones in their pockets, he proceeded to argue, that great advantage had been derived to the supporters of ministers from the candid manner in which another noble lord (Stanley), had expressed his sentiments on the fatal events of the 16th of August. Both in the House and out of the House it had been supposed that that noble lord had spoken of the facts to which he alluded, from his own personal knowledge, whereas he had fairly acknowledged that he only spoke upon information derived from others. He himself (ald. Wood) had heard nothing but opinions upon this subject: he had heard no facts; and facts were the most important points in this discussion. There were, however, some points on which they were all agreed; and one of these was, the existence of great distress in the nation. Hence arose our existing discontents; and what, he would ask, were the means which had been taken to
810l.809Mr. Alderman Wood
812811 rose for the purpose of making a communication to the House on a subject connected with lord Suffield, the lord-lieutenant of the county of Norfolk. He should abstain from making any comment upon the documents which he was going to read, and should commence, as a matter of public duty, by reading a letter which he had yesterday received from lord Suffield. The hon. member then read the following letter:— "Gunton, Dec. 4. Dear Wodehouse,—I am exceedingly obliged to you for your letter of yesterday, in reply to which I beg leave to say, that I am not conscious of having acted with any partiality respecting the, insertion of gentlemen in the commission of the peace, of which I think the commission itself, with the additions made to it, affords pretty strong evidence. I recollect to have had some conversation with Mr. Coke at general Money's on the subject of the commission, but am not aware of a promise on my part to insert any gentleman Mr. Coke might name; nor, had I been so disposed, did Mr. Coke give me an opportunity, for I never had the honour of receiving an application
812811Mr. Wodehouse
814813 repeated, that in consequence of a declaration made to him at general Money's by lord Suffield, that he would insert in the commission of the peace the
814813Mr. Coke
815 rose to make his promised motion respecting the Borough of Penryn. He said, he felt it his imperative duty again to bring the subject under the consideration of parliament; he trusted that hon. members would turn their attention to his bill of last session, that he might be enabled to carry it through all its stages. Alterations had been suggested to him in the provisions of it, but he had not seen any reason for adopting them. There had been several instances in which the elective franchise had been extended, and
815Sir C. Burrell
 observed, that a case had lately occurred in the county which he bad the honour to represent, which proved the necessity for the bill now moved for. Part of the factory of an individual well known to many members of that House, had lately been burnt down, and without an alteration in the law a number of persons would be thrown out of work altogether.Lord A. Hamilton
 said, the bill now moved for was a complete proof of the absurdity of attempting to interfere between the employer and the labourer. This bill gave a sanction to the most disgraceful practice ever adopted in cotton factories, that of employing persons by night; and yet he did not see how the measure could be refused, with put depriving a number of people of work altogether.Mr. Philips
 did not see how the present bill could be considered as a proof of the absurdity of the former measure. In a subject of such extent it was hardly possible to provide for every case that might occur, and accordingly the accident alluded to proved that there was an omission in the act; but that omission would now be supplied without delay.Mr. Brougham
 would have been more willing to vote for the repeal of the former act. His hon. and learned friend had talked of an omission—why it was full of omissions. The accident had happened to the person with whom the bill originated; but had it happened to a person less favourable to the measure, perhaps the hon. baronet would not have shown the same eagerness to supply the omission.Mr. Finlay
 having moved the order of the day for going into a committee on this bill,Lord Castlereagh
820819818817 said, that before the House went into a committee, he would, with the leave of the House, make a few observations. In the first place, then, he would again express his astonishment and surprise at the intention of the noble lord to extend the provisions of the bill to Ireland. He did not mean to look on this
820819818817Mr. Hutchinson
 said, that the hon. member would have several opportunities of bringing on the discussion he had in view. He might do so in the committee, or on the report.Lord Castlereagh
821 objected to this new provision, on the ground that it was desirable that different authorities should be as little confounded together as possible. But if it were proper to maintain, in any case, a distraction between the functions of particular offices, it was between those of a civil and military nature.
821Sir C. Monck
 observed, that this clause would not interfere with another, which provided, that the old law should continue in all respects, except only as certain new regulations were added. The sheriff would still have the power of convening the county, and he could not conceive what objection there was to the lord-lieutenant possessing a similar authority.Lord Castlereagh
 said, it was not necessary that the place should be borough corporate.The Solicitor-General
 wished some provision to be made applicable to towns in the situation of Manchester, otherwise no meetings at all would take place, except such as were agreeable to ministers. Even on such a question as the continuance of the income-tax, the boroughreeve had refused to call a meeting.Mr. Philips
825 said, that this amendment was the same in principle as that proposed by his noble friend, and, if it were adopted, would at once go to destroy the very end which the bill was
825Lord Castlereagh
827 said, that though be had felt it necessary that some steps should be taken with respect to public meetings, he had felt great repugnancy to the continuance of the bill for a long period, which repugnance had been much increased by the objections which he had heard the noble secretary of state offer to
827Lord Normanby
 said, that if the amendment of the noble lord were adopted with respect to England, he should have no objection to its adoption towards Scotland. But he apprehended that, with respect to Scotland, it was not at all necessary. The persons authorized to call meetings in Scotland were, in the first place, the sheriffs or the stewartry. It was very true that the sheriff was appointed by the Crown, but he was not removable by the Crown; and he believed he might with perfect confidence state, that there was no instance in which this officer had ever sacrificed his duties from any influence used on the part of the Crown. The conveners of the county were appointed for the express purpose of convening public meetings; and he believed there was no occasion on which a convener had been called upon, in which he had refused to call a meeting. He thought those persons fully adequate to all the purposes of assembling the people in Scotland. He might add, that from the nature of the commission of the peace in Scotland, all persons qualified for becoming commissioners of supply were included, whether they were in favour of government or not.The Lord Advocate
829custos rotulorum;l. appealed to the experience of the committee, whether the mere fact of holding a freehold of 100829custos rotulorum;l.The Attorney General
custos rotulorum. thought, that even if the amendment proposed with respect to England were rejected, yet that the amendment respecting Scotland ought to be adopted. In Scotland, the people would labour under greater disadvantages than those in England; while in justice both countries should be placed on the same footing. In the first place, Scotland had no such person as a custos rotulorum.Mr. Kennedy
831custos rotulorum;, in reply to the argument of the hon. and learned gentleman, said, he would mention, with submission to the learned gentleman, that there was a difference between the principle of the amendment proposed respecting county meetings, and that which in the bill was applied to parish meetings; and that difference consisted in the notice of meeting which was required in the latter case. His hon. friend had said, that in Scotland there was no 831custos rotulorum;Lord Binning
l. observed, that it had been asked whether in such counties as York and Lancaster, the requisition of twenty freeholders of 100l.Lord Ebrington
 said, that no meetings were touched by this provision, but those that were held out of doors; and, therefore, the question was narrowed to, this—whether the House would have the security of the magistrates for the safety of such meetings, or throw them open to the will of evil-disposed persons." Lord Castlereagh
 wished to set the Attorney-General right in what he had said respecting the sheriffs. He himself knew an instance in which a sheriff had been hired by the Crown after the person appointed to the office had refused to accept it. [Cries of name, name.] He should not name the gentleman who accepted the office, because he did not wish to hold him up to public view; but the person who refused it was Mr. Calcraft, of Lincoln.Sir Robert Heron
 begged leave to inform the hon. baronet, that Mr. Calcraft did serve the office of sheriff.Lord Strathaven
 said, that was perfectly true, but it did not in the slightest degree contradict what he had asserted. Mr. Calcraft did serve the office of sheriff for the county of Lincoln last year, but the proposition to which he had alluded had been made to him several years ago.Sir R. Heron
 said, the hon. baronet did not seem to know that if the person appointed to the office of sheriff made an excuse, the Crown had no power to appoint another, except from the list of those nominated. It was evident, therefore, that if Mr. Calcraft refused thin office, the person who did accept it could not have been appointed by the Crown, except according to the regular forms.Mr. Bathurst
833 said, that if he understood the noble lord, he had now three distinct propositions before the committee. Finding that the first was not tenable, the noble lord had told them to throw the bill over the table, and thus send his hon. friend off to Ireland. The noble lord had said, that it should be compulsory on the sheriff to call a meeting; that because the people were not pleased to meet in parishes, and because twenty persons could be found in the county who wished to call a meeting, the magistrates should charge themselves with the public peace,
833Lord Castlereagh
l.l.l.mandamus was surprised that the noble lord considered it a new proposition, that a sheriff or a magistrate ought to comply with a requisition to call a meeting. Whenever an officer was intrusted with authority, any person subject to that authority might call on him to exercise it for the protection of his rights; and if, under such circumstances, a magistrate refused the protection required, the court of King's Bench might issue a l.l.l.mandamusSir C. Monck
834custos rotulorum wished the House to understand the proposition of his hon. friend behind him (Mr. Maxwell), which he was sure was not generally understood as the situation of the commissioner of supply in Scotland was confounded with that of freeholder in England. He begged the committee to remark, that county meetings could be convened in England by officers who did not exist in Scotland, or who could not by this bill exercise the power of calling meetings. In Scotland there were lord-lieutenants as well as in England; but in England they could call meetings, while in Scotland they could not by the present bill. In England there was a 834custos rotulorumLord Folkestone
 said, that if the object of the noble earl was only to regulate these meetings, and not to prevent them altogether, he ought to state what would be a proper amount of the tenures of freeholders to constitute a sufficient security for the proper conduct of a meeting. If this were specified, the requisitionists might send the requisite security to the lord-lieutenant, and the latter ought then to be bound to call a meeting. If this was not to be the case, parliament was taking away the right of meeting.Sir C. Monck
 said, the act, applied to Scotland in the same manner as to England, with the difference only of the denomination of the officers.The Attorney General
 proposed as an amendment, that the power of calling the meetings should not be limited to aldermen in the city of London, but extended to three or more of the common council of the ward. If the power was confined to the aldermen, there were many wards that never would be permitted to hold meetings. They had no halls. The churches were, on the Manchester business, refused, and therefore unless the power was given to the deputies, or some of the common council, as was now the practice, a great proportion of the inhabitants of the city of London would be denied the right of expressing their complaints by petition. Mr. Alderman Wood
835 did not think the objection of the worthy alderman war-
835Lord Castlereagh
 believed the noble lord would not be much pleased at meeting ten or twelve thousand persons marching up to any meeting in his neighbourhood. He was determined to take the sense of the committee.Mr. Alderman Wood
 proposed the insertion of words, for the purpose of bringing all meetings in the open air, called for the purpose of deliberating on questions of trade, manufactures, wages or professions, within the operation of the bill. The noble lord founded the propriety of his proposition on the abuse which had been practised on such meetings, where person assembled for the avowed purpose of discussing the interests of their trade, or the state if wages, were diverted from that subject, and led to consult on resolutions of a wholly different nature, such as annual parliaments and universal suffrage.Lord Castlereagh
 referred to the meetings of merchants, bankers, and traders, of the city of London, which, on occasions of great emergency, had been held on the Royal Exchange, no room being large enough for the purpose. Two meetings of this description had taken place within his recollection; one when so much danger was apprehended from the propagation of French revolutionary doctrines, the other on the suspension of cash payments by the Bank. The resolutions passed at those meetings had been productive of the happiest effects; had strengthened the hands of government, and given confidence to public credit; but as this bill now stood, no such expression of the sentiments of that great and respectable body could in future take place. In his opinion, all restrictions upon the meetings of commercial men were unnecessary. They could only be too numerous for any room to contain them, in a few large cities; and where that was the case, their opulence, and consequently the stake they had in the public welfare, must be commensurate with their numbers.Mr. Marryat
 replied, that he had the highest veneration for meetings of the character alluded to by the hon. member: the last thing he should apprehend would be, that sufficient authority could not be obtained for the assembly of the merchants and bankers of the metropolis. Lord Castlereagh
 said, he had clauses to bring up at the close of the bill, which would meet this and other objections.Lord Castlereagh
 objected to it, and contended, that the notice ought to be considered sufficient, if it was left at the usual place of residence of the justice.Mr. Bernat
 said, the clause was framed for the purpose of preventing persons who wished to hold a meeting for an improper purpose, from purposely leaving notice at the residence of the justice, when they knew he was absent.The Attorney General
 said it was notorious, that many of the aldermen constantly refused to convene ward meetings. It was better at once to declare that three fourths of the inhabitants of London should not meet at all.Mr. Alderman Wood
 defended the clause, which was, he said, framed to prevent the unnecessary extension of pubic meetings.The Solicitor General
l.838 stated, that he had an amendment of some importance to propose. The alteration was, to allow persons
l.838Lord Castlereagh
d.s.839 said, he despaired of improving or rendering palatable a bill which was so highly unconstitutional. As it applied to Scotland, it was exceedingly defective. Unless the word "heritor" were introduced, as well as "freeholder," a great body of respectable men, men possessing considerable landed property in that Country would be prevented from meeting. He begged leave to advert to what the noble lord had lately said with respect to certain manufacturers of Scotland, which, although perhaps it was not intended, conveyed a severe calumny against that body. The noble lord had stated, that a meeting of manufacturers had recently been held for the purpose of considering the rate of wages; but that a few radicals got amongst them, and they immediately forgot the subject they had met to discuss, and proceeded to debate on a political question. In the name of a large body of people in the county to which he belonged, he believed the noble lord's statement to be totally with foundation. There were a great number of manufacturers in the county of Fife, and to their honour he could state, that although their wages were reduced to a mere pittance—a pittance not sufficient for their subsistence—they behaved with moderation and propriety. A radical meeting took place in that part of the country about a month ago. Very few attended it. The parties by whom it was projected passed through a populous town
d.s.839Sir R. Fergusson
 observed, that his only object was to make the reality of the freehold so much a matter of notoriety, that it could not be mistaken.Lord Castlereagh
 defended the clause as it was framed; which, after a few words from lord Compton, who argued that the alteration proposed was unnecessary, was agreed to, without amendment.Mr. Bathurst
, in alluding to the fourth clause of the bill, said, that he did not see, as it was at present worded, how it would be in the power of the magistracy to exclude a great number of persons, who, without being freeholders, might attend all meetings to which freeholders were summoned by name, and insist upon overhauling their proceedings.Mr. Wynn
 observed, that in the county to which he belonged, it had never been the custom or practice to confine meetings called by the sheriff to freeholders only. Sir R. Heron
 certainly did mean to affirm, that any inhabitant, or house-holder, had no more right to attend such meetings, provided they were summoned as meetings of freeholders, than any other description of persons whatever.Mr. Wynn
840 said that the object of the clause to which the hon. gentlemen alluded, was, that any meeting, whether of householders or freeholders,
840The Solicitor General
 apprehended that it would be necessary to protect meetings against improper intruders by a police much stricter than had hither to been employed for that purpose.Lord Castlereagh
 hoped the hon. gentlemen on the bench below him would not forget to remind the noble lord, at a future stage of the bill, of the proposed admission of copy holders, as well as freeholders, to these meetings.Sir C. Monck
, member for Hull, wished to suggest the case of a meeting called for the purpose of putting in nomination a new member to represent a town or county in parliament, a parliament having been just dissolved. In such a case, would the old member have a right to attend his constituents, to render an account of his past conduct in their service? His reason for asking the noble lord this question was, that he happened to represent a town of which he was neither a freeman nor a householder. There might be other honourable gentlemen similarly circumstanced with himself. He was not, however, anxious about the fate of any one clause in particular of this bill, for he objected to its principle altogether.Mr. Graham
 had supposed that meetings for the election of burgesses could net be imagined to fall within the scope of this bill; and it seemed impossible that any difficulty should be started upon the case put by the hon. gentleman.Lord Castlereagh
 observed, that if a meeting was convened for an innocent purpose, to discuss whether it was a fine day, for instance, or to debate upon an election, the law did not interfere; but if they proceeded afterwards to topics leading to the overthrow of the constitution, that was the case in which the penalties would be incurred. But as he had already stated, he was willing to put the cases of elections entirely out of the bill.Lord Castlereagh
 proposed as an amendment, to enable all persons who had a right to vote for members of parliament in corporate towns to attend at meetings for the discussion of any matters arising out of the conduct of their representatives.Mr. Williams
842 said, that one of the most valuable properties of the bill was, that it put the magistracy in the situation of ascertaining that most difficult of all points, the exact state of circumstances under which meetings were liable to be dispersed by the powers of the law. If it was not a misdemeanor to attend such a meeting, any person might come to it— there might again be assembled meetings of 100,000 men, and therefore no object, would be gained by passing the present
842Lord Castlereagh
843 considered the provisions of this clause unnecessarily severe; The curiosity which the noble lord on the treasury bench had inveighed against in such strong terms of reprehension, and was so desirous of repressing, had been hither to considered not merely as innocent, but laudable; being nothing more than a desire to gain information on those political topics, in which every subject in a free country had a direct and legitimate interest. When the noble lord expressed his apprehensions, that such numerous assemblages of the people as had lately taken place at Manchester, might again occur, he forgot the other clauses of the bill which effectually guarded against that danger. Surely if the meetings were divided and subdivided into sections of parishes, if the magistrates had the power of regulating them both as to time and place; if parties were prohibited from coming to them in military array, or with arms or weapons of every description, or with drums or any kind of music, or with flags, banners, emblems, or other insignia, ample precautions were taken against their being too numerous. The truth was that nineteen people out of twenty who attended the meetings in question, went there out of mere idleness or curiosity, and not from any interest they felt in the political questions that were to be discussed there. They went as they would go to a fair to a fight, to a race, to a review, or to any public exhibition; but now all the attractions that had led them there were taken away, they would go no longer. The other clauses of the bill not only
843Mr. Marryat
 said, that hon. gentlemen appeared to misunderstand this clause entirely. If they considered it attentively, they would see that it was absolutely necessary in order to give effect to the intentions of the bill. Unless some provisions were made to prevent the inhabitants of one parish from attending the meetings of another, the entire population of different parishes might flock together upon any meeting called in one of them, and all those evils be created which the country had so much reason to deplore.Mr. Robinson
 supported the clause, on the ground, that if the amendment were passed, it would render the whole bill ineffectual.Mr. Bathurst
 did not know whether he could make that subject clear on which his noble friend had endeavoured, but apparently in vain, to enlighten gentlemen on the other side. But with what justice could it be said, that it was intended, by this amendment, to render the whole bill nugatory, when it left so many of its penalties in full force? One of his reasons for voting for it was, because he did not deem it right that any person who went by chance and innocently to a public meeting in another district, should be rendered liable to an imprisonment for two years, and, what was still worse, to a discretionary fine of an unlimited amount. The intention of the bill was, it was said, not to suppress discussion, but to put down itinerant orators. Did not his hon. friend's amendment provide as strongly as any clause now in the bill for that object.Lord Folkestone
847 hoped the committee would excuse him for saying a few words in reply to the most unprovoked and most undeserved attack which had been made upon him. He had not said a syllable on the subject of reporters', and yet the hon. and learned gentleman had said that he had treated them as if they were unworthy of his notice. He asked, what had called forth such an attack upon him? He had been paying all the attention in his power to the noble mover of the amendment, and to the hon. and learned gentleman, and had intended to reply to their arguments; as well as his humble talents would enable him. But there was nothing said or done by him which could relate to reporters, but as they might come within the provisions of the act. What right had the hon. and learned gentleman to suppose that he had so treated reporters? But how did the hon. and learned gentleman himself propose to treat them? He would heave them within the reach of the clause making it felony to remain after proclamation to depart. He hoped the committee would excuse him if he showed some warmth, because the attack made upon him was most undeserved, unprovoked and, he could not help saying, with a view to mate him obnoxious to that respectable class of persons with whom he
847The Attorney General
 said, it was for the committee to form their opinion, whether any cheers or gestures on his part had deserved the remarks made by the hon. and learned gentleman. He had no recollection that he had cheered at all. He had been remarking upon the arguments used, to his learned friend who sat next him.The Attorney General
 said, that his hon. and learned friend had remarked to him, that the clause would have the effect of excluding reporters, but had not cheered. The hon. and learned gentleman ought to have been satisfied, and throroughly satisfied, before he had replied in the style he had done.The Solicitor General
 said, there had been nothing in the gesture or manner of his hon. and learned friend to justify the remarks that had been made. If any thing had occasioned those remarks, it had been on his lordship's part, not from disrespect for the persons alluded to, for whom he felt no disrespect, but because he had said that the amendment, if introduced for the purpose of admitting reporters, would alter the whole frame of the bill. The noble lord then defended the clause against the objections urged by the opposite side.Lord Castlereagh
850 knew that there were certain means by which a minority might protract the passing a measure, and retard the course of business in that House. But it was a great error to suppose that those on his side had understood, that, after such a division, any hon. members would think it consistent with their public duty to put in force this power of renewing motions for adjournment. In his conscience he believed that the public safety was deeply involved in the immediate progress of this measure. The hon. and
850Lord Castlereagh
 said, that if at all introduced, it should be in a specific clause; but he thought it a very serious question whether reporters ought to be allowed to attend.Lord Castlereagh
 expressed his concurrence in the propriety of the objection.Mr. G. Lamb
822 did not think a satisfactory answer had been given to his hon. friend's objection. His own objection indeed went still further, and he wished to see the names both of the lord-lieutenant and the customs rotulorum struck out of this clause. The power of calling public meetings ought to be confined to persons not under the direct influence of government. Both lords lieutenant and custodies rotulorum had lately received a pretty plain lecture as to what they were to expect, if they attended against the wishes of his majesty's ministers at public meetings. They now well knew, that if they granted them in such a case, a loss of office would be the probable result. He objected in particular to the creation of too many authorities. It was a vulgar but just observation, that what was every man's business was no man's business. If one officer should refuse to hold a meeting, another might feel disinclined to take a different course. So it might be said with regard to that further provision which extended the same power to grand juries. They would not choose to inter-
822Mr. G. Lamb
 differed with his noble friend who had last spoken, on the construction of the bill. It gave to lords lieutenant and five magistrates, the same power of calling county meetings in Scotland as in England. If this were not the case, he wished the attorney-general to declare so.Lord A. Hamilton
 suggested, that by omitting that part of the 25th clause which, preceded the words "within that part of the united kingdom called Scotland," the power of calling a meeting would be reserved to the same magistrates in Scotland as in England.Mr. Boswell
 said, that if he understood Mr. Wynn correctly, he meant to make the act more severe than had been intended even by ministers themselves. The hon. gentleman's intention seemed to be, that an inhabitant or householder attending a meeting of freeholders, would become guilty of a misdemeanor, and be liable to to two years imprisonment.Mr. Primrose
844 thought that the right hon. member when he stood up so vehemently for this clause, had forgotten the penalties which were contained in another part of the bill. The enactments of the present bill were far more severe than those of the Riot act, and yet owed, their origin to a state of affairs much less dangerous. Indeed, the clause which punished, with transportation for seven years any person who not depart after proclamation was made to disperse, was so severe that it would inevitably destroy itself. To attend a meeting in a district to which an individual did not belong, was also to be punished with two years imprisonment: a strong necessity ought to be shown before such a punishment was
844Mr. Primrose
837 suggested the propriety of making some provision with respect to extra parochial places. The principle of the bill was to give to all ranks of people a right to meet somewhere or other
837Mr. G. Bankes
 contended, that the difficulty of his hon. friend was perfectly natural and well founded. That some difficulty, in whatever degree it might have been anticipated, was pre-supposed by ministers themselves, was clear from a part of the clause which concluded thus— "Provided always that nothing herein contained shall be construed to extend to any member of the Commons House of Parliament attending any such meeting, as aforesaid, in any county, city, borough, town, or place, for which he shall be serving in parliament.'' But this provision only extended to members actually serving; not to those gentlemen who had served.Mr. Brougham
 allowed that the attorney-general might mean to apply the bill to Scotland, but he had not used sufficient words. The law should be precise, and not taken on the interpretation of the attorney-general.Mr. Brougham
 said, he was sure the noble lord must see the necessity of yielding to this demand. By the bill, as now drawn up, there could be no meeting of whole towns, except they were cities, boroughs, or towns corporate.—Was it known to what extent this exclusion would operate?—They would exclude not only Manchester, more important perhaps than any other town, but several other most populous and important cities; for cities they were, though not so in a legal sense. They were to exclude Birmingham, Sheffield, Wolverhampton, which, though in law only market towns, or villages, had grown, by means of the trade and manufactures of the country, to exceed in importance those places which were called cities. It was to exclude also, he believed the borough of Southwark— [The solicitor general signified his dissent.] — He was informed, at least by persons acquainted with the constitution of the borough of Southwark, that it did not come within the description of a borough corporate.Mr. Brougham
823 said, that the words of the bill were "city, borough, or town corporate," which, in the ordinary interpretation of the phrase, would lead to suppose that it was necessary that the place should be a borough corporate. It was not, however, on the case of the borough of Southwark that he meant to rely, but on those of the great towns which were obviously excluded. He addressed him-self particularly to the independent part of the House (there were, persons who in every other sense might be called independent, who were connected with the parties which divided it, but) he meant those who kept themselves aloof from any
823Mr. Brougham
846845║ rose, and after commenting on the arguments against the amendment, proceeded to state, that even under this bill great county meetings might be regularly called. Now, it was evident that great and important affairs might occur, which, even in the opinion of a lord lieutenant, a sheriff, or any of
846845║Mr. Brougham
 declared, that the noble lord had not removed the objection by any thing he had said, and pledged himself to show, when the clause was brought up, that it was far from being an answer to it.Mr. Brougham
 explained. He had been led to make the remarks he had made, not merely by the cheers, but by the attitude of contempt with which his hon. and learned friend had received the first mention of reporters [Cries of No, no! from the back seats of the ministerial side.] The hon. gentlemen behind might easily say no, no; but they could not possibly have seen his reason for misunderstanding his hon. and learned friend. He admitted that he had misunderstood him. He thought that he had even heard his hon. and learned friend contemptuously repeat the word "reporters." At least, this was not the first time in which notice had been taken by members, not only of words spoken, but of cheers and gestures.Mr. Brougham
 trusted it was not intended to go into any of those clauses which were likely to produce discussion. The result of the division, he presumed, would only be to agree to those parts of the bill on which no controversy was expected to arise. This, indeed, he took to be the understanding of many who had voted with the majority; and he must be permitted to add, that it was in this view only that he and his friends could consent to give the committee no further trouble.Mr. Brougham
851 remarked, that he had been represented as having troubled the House on a late occasion for two hours, upon a subject still more general and various than the present. He begged leave to say, that he had then addressed the House, and at that length with great and unfeigned reluctance. The reason was not, that he was reluctant to discharge a public duty. The pain he felt arose from perceiving that he addressed himself to so many members who seemed determined to hear nothing that differed from those views which they had already taken. He grieved to say, that he had then found himself in a House of Commons ready to pass the most severe measures against their constituents, and which would hear nothing in their defence—a house, that while it was dwelling upon the tumult and confusion of other popular assemblies, and regarding all other popular assemblies as a rabble rout incapable of any deliberation, was itself an audience which had given him a reception not often experienced at the most stormy meetings. He must confess he had felt ashamed. The reason for the length at which he had troubled them on the occasion alluded to, was the speech of the noble lord's right hon. friend (Mr. Canning), whose speech had occupied three hours in its delivery. No doubt, it would have been very convenient to the noble lord, that that speech should have been left unanswered. This, however, had not squared with his own notions of public duty. His impression was, upon the present subject, that the numerous clauses of this most important bill could not be properly discused or investigated at that hour. On its future stages, he could assure the
851Mr. Brougham
 reminded the committee that the amendment of the noble earl was not under their consideration.Mr. Brogden
 said, that in his opinion there was a great deal in what had fallen from the hon. and learned gentleman on the other side, of the importance of admitting reporters. He thought it of very great importance that we should know what was done at public meetings. Publicity had been of the greatest service during the late meetings; it had opened the eyes of the country to the views of those who agitated it. But he was aware of the difficulty of admitting the amendment, because a great number of persons might attend in the first instance, and occasion much inconvenience and mischief, if the clause were withdrawn. He, therefore, did hope that provision might, in some other way, be made fop those whose object was reporting.Mr. Stuart Wortley
 said, that if the object, which he thought a great one, should be adopted, it ought to be introduced in a clause by itself.Mr. S. Wortley
l.l.826 said, the bill was altogether of such a nature, that he could not even attempt to improve it without some degree of pain. At the same time he could not help observing, with regard to both amendments, that the observations of the noble lord who had just addressed the committee only showed the excess to which he was willing to carry that principle in his own mind which bad led to the proposal of this measure—be meant a principle of distrust towards the people of this country. His distrust was not merely directed towards those wild and visionary politicians of whose doctrines the House had heard so much, nor
l.l.826Mr. J. P. Grant
 objected strongly to it. He conceived it was a great hardship, where individuals were unable to bring to a conclusion at one meeting the business they had met to transact, that they should not be allowed to adjourn to a more convenient time.Mr. J. P. Grant
l.l.828 considered that if this amendment were adopted, the bill might as well not be passed at all. This bill was intended to protect the loyal and peaceable inhabitants of the country, and if the restrictions proposed were agreed to, it would, prove fatal to those who wanted to put down sedition and rebellion. He believed twenty freeholders
l.l.828Mr. Mansfield
 referred to the power to be granted for calling meetings in Scotland. In Scotland, he said, the sheriff, being an officer appointed by the Crown, was in some measure an objectionable; person in whom to repose the right of refusing or sanctioning public meetings. The same observation might be made with respect to the lord advocate. He should therefore propose, as an amendment, that after the words "or any meeting called by the convener of any county or stewartry," the following should be inserted— "or ten persons legally qualified to be commissioners of supply." These were persons of respectability, who had a great stake in the country, and therefore were not likely to give their countenance to meetings which were calculated to place that stake in danger.Mr. Maxwell
849 agreed in the importance of giving publicity to the proceedings of public meetings. He opposed the amendment, because persons had come from Manchester and Leeds to tell those who conducted meetings in his part of the country, what they should say, and how they should act. The radicals had also availed themselves of the attendance of persons from mere curiosity, and had represented them as friends of annual parliaments and universal suffrage. He was decidedly against the radicals, though a sincere reformer, and representing a part of the country abounding with sincere re-
849Mr. Maxwell
 expressed his satisfaction that ministers had at last determined to render these measures temporary. In saying this, he did not mean to admit that a case had been made out for even a temporary enactment of them. He thought that an exaggerated degree of alarm had been excited, by the large meetings which had been recently so common throughout the country, as many persons attended them from distress, find not from seditious motives. It Was' his opinion, that the House would have done more to conciliate the people by granting an inquiry, than it could ever do by resorting to measures of severity and coercion. He hoped the bills would receive further modifications when they were in the committee.Mr. Alderman Thorp
 said, that as the clause stood, a magistrate, not wishing to have a meeting in his parish, might absent himself purposely. In that case, what power had those persons who were desirous to call the meeting of effecting that object? Mr. Bernal
 declared, that if the amendment was passed, he would immediately apply for leave to return to Ireland. He thought it very likely that twenty persons of the description proposed by the noble earl might be disposed to call a meeting for a very improper purpose. He would appeal to the committee, whether the sense of a county might not be better taken in small sections than by assembling large meetings. He protested, against such meetings as the noble earl proposed to call by his twenty freeholders, at which no person would be able to make himself heard by his lungs, or in any other manner than by banners and flags. [A laugh.]Mr. R. Martin
 thought it prudent to prevent reporters from attending meetings-It would be dangerous to let publicity be given to the seditious nonsense of parish parliaments.Mr. R. Martin
 said, at present it was the undoubted right of the subject to petition; the clause before the House deprived them of it. What, for instance, would be the case in the city of Bath, where a small corporation of twenty or thirty persons were elected by one another, and who were altogether unconnected with the people, so that the members who took their seats for that place were as secure as if they had possession of a freehold estate. In the city of London also, requisitions, signed by eighty and one hundred persons, had been refused, and when the citizens had taken the only opportunity that had occurred to state their sentiments, they had been prosecuted by the attorney-general. It was better to say at once that the bill was to repeal the Bill of Rights, or to confine the meetings of the people to those parochial ones which alone it would be possible to be held. As to the six days notice which was made necessary, what would become of the right of petition, when the noble lord followed the example which he had now set of hunting through the House bills against the constitution? What petitions could overtake him? If a bill was brought in to repeal the Habeas Corpus altogether, and Yorkshire or Devonshire, or any other distant county was to be called upon, the bill might be passed before the petition, with the utmost expedition which this new law admitted, could be decided upon. He wished to have a clause inserted to compel the magistrates, when called on by a certain number of persons, to call meetings. The bill, if passed in its present state was a repeal of the Bill of Rights, and a subversion of the constitution.Mr. Alderman Waithman
836 rose, but was received with loud laughing on the ministerial benches. He said the reception he met with was too often tried to have the effect of dismaying him. It was undeniable that many of the aldermen of the city of London uniformly refused to convene ward meetings. In his ward, which contained one-fifth of the population of the city of London, his predecessor never would call a meeting: it was uniformly done by the deputy, or some of the common council. 836Mr. Alderman Waithman
 believed that the amendment would destroy the principle of the bill; for as its object was to destroy the right of petitioning altogether, therefore any amendment that went to give a facility to the exercise of that right was at variance with the principle. The measure itself was so hateful that he was not disposed to recommend it by any modification. Let it go out with all its imperfections on its head, to meet that public reprobation which it would experience.Mr. Alderman Waithman
 expressed his decided approbation of every sentiment contained in the petition, and his firm conviction, that, if the evil were so great as had been represented, it would increase, and not diminish, under the present restrictions.Mr. Alderman Waithman
l. said, he had to propose an amendment, which was in accordance with the principle on which he had supported the bill. That principle was, that the right of meeting was a valuable part of the constitution, though the limits within which it should be confined, had of late been overstepped- He wished to grant the power of convening a county meeting to twenty freeholders possessed of at least 100l.Earl Compton
 said, he would willingly alter the number to thirty.Earl Compton
 suggested, that if twenty freeholders did not afford a sufficient security, the number might be increased to thirty, in those counties which were supposed to be in a disturbed state, such as York and Lancaster.Earl Compton
830║ supported the amendment of the noble lord. This provision, if inserted in the bill, would be expressly the same in principle as the clause relating to parish meetings; for, supposing notice to be given in the one case, as was required
830║Mr. Denman
848 lamented the interruption which had arisen from this altercation; and regretted the warmth into which the attorney-general had suffered himself to be led. He regretted the tone of the attorney-general, produced by the altercation to which he had alluded, because he thought he had opposed the amendment in consequence, with greater vehemence. His objection to the clause was, that it kept alive quarrels at meetings. Why should it not be left to the discre-
848Mr. Denman
"And clap the padlock on their, mind.""Be to their virtues very kind,"Be to their faults a little blind, said, he had suggested in the last session that the elective franchise should be transferred from Penryn to one of the most populous towns of the kingdom, as Birmingham or Manchester, which did not send a member to parliament.—The corruptions of that borough were so notorious, that it appeared to him quite hopeless to think of preventing them, except by removing the elective franchise altogether. His majesty's ministers had resorted to very strong measures—they had sharpened the sword against itinerant orators, and against those who had inflamed the public mind; if they had gone no further it would have been well, but they had adapted a system of coercion against the people instead of one of conciliation. He thought, that had the elective franchise been transferred from Penryn to Manchester, it would have tended much to conciliate the people of that place. On the subject of reform he would say nothing. His hon. friend the member for Durham, had given notice of his intention to submit to the House a motion of that kind, and he had no doubt that it would meet with his perfect concurrence. The noble lord had mistaken the true way to pacify and conciliate the public mind. He might sharpen the sword of the law to put down factious demagogues, but let them throw down the olive-branch to the people.
"And clap the padlock on their, mind.""Be to their virtues very kind,"Be to their faults a little blind,Mr. Denison
 wished to ask whether the clause was intended to apply to the county which he represented. The election took place always in the public road, so that no traveller could help mingling with such an assembly, and rendering himself by consequence liable to the penalties of the bill. He needed not observe, that this would be a most flagrant violation of the constitution.Mr. Honywood
 adverted to what he conceived the groundless fears of the noble lord, as they regarded the facility with which the qualifications to attend at these meetings, might be transferred to radicals by actual freeholders. They would surely be more eager to retain their qualification in quietness, than to be at the trouble of vesting others with it.Mr. W. Smith
 maintained that the clause, as it now stood, was contrary to the practice of the constitution as it existed from time immemorial. He could suppose a case, which was not at all an improbable one. A member on vacating his seat and going into the country, might pass through some town with which he was totally unconnected and in which a public meeting might be convened. Anxious to hear how the good people of the town argued on political questions, he might go to the meeting, and then, according to this clause, he would become liable to all the severe penalties which this bill created. This was a sufficient reason to induce him to vote for the amendment.Mr. W. Smith
 said, that before the conversation went any farther, he could not help pressing upon the notice of the House its irregularity, and the dangerous consequences which it might tend to produce. He ought, perhaps, to have stopped the hon. member who commenced it, but he was not aware of the length to which he would go. After he had allowed the hon. member to proceed through the whole of his statement, it would have been an act of gross injustice to have thrown any impediment in the way of the hon. member who had just sat down. He hoped the House would pardon him for saying, that the conversation had already gone far enough, and farther even than the most lax practice allowed. It was not, perhaps, necessary that their laws and regulations should always be observed to the letter; but unless the spirit of them was preserved, they would not be able to preserve their own dignity, or to carry on the business of the public with that celerity and regularity which was absolutely necessary.The Speaker
 spoke in opposition to the measure, but was quite inaudible.Sir C. Hawkins
 opposed any alteration in the old practice. He thought the aldermen of London fully entitled to confidence, and it was not to be presumed that they would abuse it. For his own part, as an alderman, he should not like to be interfered with by the common council.Sir W. Curtis
 wished to ask, whether it was the intention of the hon. gentleman to say, that every person, not a free-holder, but attending such meetings of freeholders, would be guilty of a misdemeanor?Lord Althorp
l. said, that the amendment of the noble lord, and that of his hon. and learned friend, were the same in principle. His only object in rising was, to state that the qualification proposed by his noble friend, to entitle 20 or 30 freeholders to call a meeting, was precisely the same as that which qualified an individual to become a justice of the peace. The only difference was, that the noble secretary of state made 5 freeholders of 100l.Lord Althorp
 having moved that this bill be read a first time,Lord Castlereagh
 observed, that the Crown had already made a communication to the House with respect to the existence of the practice of training, and, therefore, in passing the bill in the manner proposed, they would not be proceeding on the information of any individual member. But if they were to pass the bill two stages to-night, and to go into a committee to-morrow, perhaps this would be satisfactory to all sides.Lord Castlereagh
 expressed his conviction, that training in a regular manner, had been practised to a great extent in the northern counties.Lord Lowther
 bore his testimony to the existence of similar practices in Scotland.The Lord Advocate
 said, that several individuals had been committed for trial, at the last sessions, for, the offence of training, but they had traversed. It was undoubtedly true, that if it were possible to establish the purpose for which men met armed; by night, that amounted to high treason; but the hon. and learned gentleman must know, that there was a great difficulty in getting at that proof; and then they could only be indicted for the lowest offence in law—misdemeanor. But, in consequence of the traversing, there had been as yet no conviction, and consequently no example had been made. He needed only to state also, what was seen from the papers before them, the difficulty of getting evidence as to such training, the persons who had gone to see them having been attacked and maltreated. He trusted that the alarm now felt would induce individuals, at all hazards, to put down this practice, and that they would not suffer themselves to be intimidated by threats from doing so. After this act, he had hopes that the specific punishment would have the effect of preventing the repetition of this act. It had been said, if the Manchester meeting was illegal, surely there could be no doubt these nightly meetings were illegal; but the Manchester meeting had been held up to the country as a legal meeting, and thereby considerable difficulty had been thrown in the way of magistrates.The Attorney General
858l.l.l.857 called the attention of the House to the
858l.l.l.857Mr. Hume
859 said, he did not rise to promote debate, nor to oppose the production of these papers, so far as they could be given. But it appeared to him, that the larger part could not be made up with sufficient accuracy for the hon. gentleman to found any argument upon them. As far as they could be given, however, they should be laid on the table of the House. There would be no difficulty whatever in furnishing correctly the accounts for the last three years; but those for the years 1792, 3, and 4 were kept in such an irregular manner as almost to preclude the possibility of laying them before parliament in a satisfactory state. The hon. gentleman in the course of his observations, had indulged in remarks which were altogether erroneous; one of these was, that a great many ships were rotting. This applied of course to the
859Sir George Cockburn
860 said, he thought the object of his hon. friend, in bringing for-word this motion, had been mistaken. What he conceived to be his hon. friend's intention was, that by the production of these papers, such a disproportion would be found to exist between the expenditure of 1792, 3, and 4, and the expenditure of the last three years, as would lead the House to see that a very great reduction might be made in the supplies granted for the service of the navy. In the propriety of this proposition he fully agreed, and he saw no reason why there should not be as great a reduction in the manufacture of ships of war as in the other manufactures of the country. He perfectly recollected an answer which he gave to an hon. member who had formerly belonged to that House (Mr. Whitbread) on tins very subject. On that occasion, allusion was made to the great extent of ship-building; and he said, that this must be the case as long as the dry rot was permitted to continue its ravages, and that until vessels were built under cover, it never would be undiminished. Since that period every vessel and every ship was covered; consequently the destruction must have became much less. He perfectly agreed in the expediency of preserving unbroken the naval strength of
860Sir Joseph Yorke
 felt it his duty to offer a few words in defence of that highly meritorious corps to which the hon. mover had alluded—he meant the royal marines. If it had not been for the integrity and loyalty of this corps, the whole fleet under lord St. Vincent, at the time of the mutiny, would have been carried into Ireland. It was to the conduct of the marines alone that the safety of the fleet, as well as the preservation of the lives of the officers; was to be ascribed. He had repeatedly seen them in service, both on shore and on board, and never knew an instance in which they had not manifested great courage, zeal, and loyalty. He therefore maintained, that in adding 1,000 men to the marines, the House was not turning them into a standing army.Sir Isaac Coffin
862l.861 regretted that the hon. mover should have brought forward this subject now—not that he meant to say that a subject of such importance ever came amiss, but that many of the papers included in the motion would, as a matter of course, be laid on the table of the House, with the navy estimates for the year; and therefore, an additional degree of trouble and expense would be incurred. From what quarter the hon. gentleman had obtained his information respecting the expenditure for the navy for the years 1792, 3, and 4, he was at a loss to conceive; but most certainly ho did not seem to be in possession of all that might be collected on the subject. If he had consulted the Journals of the House, he would have found, that, in addition to the estimates for those years, there was always a very large disbursement, the effect of which was, the creation of the navy debt which had subse-
862l.861Mr. Croker
 said, that when the papers which had been moved for were produced, he would take upon himself to say, that the hon. gentleman would be found to be incorrect in every point to which he had alluded. He would pledge himself to prove, that he was wrong in every instance to which he had called the attention of the House. He wished to say, that the accounts referred to in the motion could only be obtained with great inconvenience, arising from the incorrect manner in which the naval accounts had been kept in the years 1792, 3, and 4; and when they were produced, he thought they would be more likely to mislead, than to inform the House. He begged leave to say also, that, two years ago, the committee of finance kept him before them for a full hour, with a view to ascertain whether they could not get rid of one poor unhappy clerk. If, therefore, his department was now to be called upon to undertake an increased portion of labour, he trusted no objection would hereafter be made to a considerable addition to the estimates; for it was impossible to go on without an enlargement of expense.Sir Byam Martin
863 thought the hon. gentleman had no reason to complain of the spirit in which his motion had been met, when all that he had asked had been at once ac-
863Mr. Croker
l.l.l. observed, he did not wish to make any invidious comparison; yet be considered, when the services of sir Robert Sepping were contrasted with those of Mr. Graham, a Bow-street magistrate, who had received 5,000l.l.l.Sir Joseph Yorke
l. said, that the 5,000l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he considered this clause, as totally unnecessary, inasmuch as before the meeting could be assembled the magistrates must be satisfied that the objects for which it was called were not of an improper nature. According to this clause, after the meeting had been assembled with the sanction of the magistrates, they would have the power of exercising their caprice and dispersing it.Mr. Denman
 said, that this act did not give a magistrate the power of dispersing a meeting without previous notice.The Attorney-General
 said, he thought that some amendment to this clause should be proposed, to prevent a magistrate from dispersing a meeting while there was any one person of a different parish present.Lord Althorp
 apprehended it would be dangerous to oblige a magistrate to draw a line of distinction respecting the number of strangers that should render a meeting illegal.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that the first proclamation directed to be made by the magistrate, declared the meeting to be unlawful, and the second made the persons so remaining liable to the penalties of a felony. Now he begged to know, what was the right construction of that clause? because, from the ambiguous manner in which it was worded, 20,000 or 30,000 people might be made guilty of felony by the obstinacy of one person.Mr. J. P. Grant
 said, that once or twice a-year a greater number of persons than was allowed by this clause attended at Lloyd's and if one stranger was to intrude himself among them, and refuse to. withdraw, they would all become subject to the penalties of a felony. He should wish to be told how it was to be known that a person was a freeholder. Was he to take his title-deeds in his pocket; or was the magistrate to take the word of the party himself? He needed not, surely, remind the supporters of the bill, that no language admitted a greater latitude of construction than that which applied to residence. This clause rested the case of persons attending a meeting who had no right to be present, and it gave the magistrate the power of dispersing the assembly if those strangers did not withdraw. Now, supposing that, in the execution of the order for dispersion, death should ensue, would the magistrate be guilty of murder, if it was shown to the jury on the trial, that the person on whose account the meeting had been dispersed was really an inhabitant of the parish? These, he conceived, were topics that deserved the consideration of the noble lord, and of the learned gentle-men opposite.Mr. Denman
865 said, that when a magistrate had read the Riot act in ordinary cases, individuals who did not depart,
865Lord Castlereagh
 said, that here were facts on which a magistrate was to judge, while not one of the facts was within his knowledge; and yet the noble lord had said, that this case was the same as any other riot. The distinction was evident and important.Mr. Denman
 observed, that the moment a magistrate had read the Riot act, persons remaining culpably on the ground subjected themselves to the penalties of the law. This provision was merely a transcript of the Riot act, with this difference only, that the parties offending were guilty of a felony, instead of a misdemeanor. In all cases, the magistrate ought to decide on the law, and it did not become the subject to sit in judgment on the magistrate.Lord Castlereagh
 remarked, that the noble lord did not seem to understand the objection of his learned friend. The magistrate, not knowing the fact himself, but acting on the information of others, might be liable to commit a mistake; and the case put by his learned friend was, that if death ensued in consequence of this mistake, the magistrate might be guilty of murder. The right of the magistrate to judge of the law was not questioned; it was only alleged, that by acting on the information of others, when he had himself no means of knowledge, he might be led to the commission of murder.Lord Folkestone
 said, the objection of the learned gentleman was, that by the attendance of one stranger, or rather of a person erroneously supposed to be a stranger, a magistrate might be brought into the situation supposed. The objection, however, did not apply, because the object of this clause was, to prevent individuals who were known certainly to be strangers from interfering in the business of a meeting.Mr. Leslie Foster
866 considered the clause to be one of a most savage description. The noble lord had endeavoured to draw a parallel between actual riots and constructive riots, and had contended, that
866Lord Milton
 suggested the introduction of a clause, purporting that a meeting should not be dispersed as illegal, unless the order of a magistrate for the arrest of any unqualified person present should be resisted by such meeting.Sir J. Marjoribanks
 said, that as the clause stood at present, the meeting became unlawful when the magistrate declared it to be so. His object was, that after a declaration to that effect by the magistrate, time should be allowed to the people to disperse before they became subject to the penalties of the bill; and he wished the attorney-general would frame an amendment to that effect.Mr. J. P. Grant
 observed, that a man pointed out by the magistrate as a stranger, might, in reality, be a freeholder, while another person, not pointed out, might be a stranger. As the clause was at present worded, that person's presence would make the meeting illegal; though surely that never could be intended by the framers of the bill. The magistrate, therefore, should be required to point out the individuals whose presence rendered the meeting illegal.Mr. Denman
 agreed to alter that part of the clause, so as to have the following effect:—that when any person who was a stranger had been ordered to withdraw and had refused to comply with that order, the party so refusing should, upon conviction, be adjudged guilty of felony.The Attorney-General
867 proposed that the provision in this clause: which empowered a single magistrate to disperse a meeting,
867Mr. Denman
 objected to it, as introducing a new and dangerous principle in law. By the riot-act, the remaining together, or not dispersing on proclamation made, rendered the parties guilty of felony, without benefit of clergy; but even there the magistrate was not indemnified for ordering those who disobeyed the proclamation to be killed.Mr. Denman
 contended, that the magistrates, by the statute of Henry 7th, and by other statutes founded on the commission, had the right to disperse an unlawful assembly by force.The Solicitor-General
 most positively denied this principle, and would appeal to the whole body of lawyers in support of his opinion. Hawkins, who was in opposition to the principle of the learned Solicitor-general, had put the case of an assembly for the purpose of hearing Mass, which was then unlawful, but could not be dispersed by force. Force could not be used but when there was a breach of the peace. Unless, therefore, every thing cruel and despotic were to be raked into this measure—unless a contradiction was to be given in it to every principle of law and justice—unless a complete power was to be placed in the hands of magistrates over life, limb, and liberty, without responsibility, this clause he was confident could not pass.Mr. Denman
868 said, that the proposition of the Solicitor-general was the most alarming that he had ever heard, and the most opposite to the principles of law or the opinions of any lawyer. Let the hon. and learned gentleman consult Mr. Justice Hale, who said that it required an act of parliament to indemnify a magistrate who had caused death in dispersing an unlawful meeting, from the charge of having committed murder. Was the Riot-act to be brought up here?
868Mr. J. P. Grant
 said, that if he looked at the statute of Henry 7th, and other acts founded on the commission of the peace, he found that the magistrates had the right of dispersing unlawful assemblies, even before the Riot-act. Suppose 50,000 people had assembled to the breach of the peace, they might have been dispersed without the provisions of that act. If a magistrate was called to any riotous meeting, or to any unlawful meeting, in breach of the peace, he was justified in using force to put it down, and was indemnified against the consequences. The force, however, was only to be a proper force; he was not allowed to exert more force, or to apply greater violence, than the dispersion of the assembly required. He acted under a heavy responsibility in this respect, but his power by the law could not be denied.The Solicitor-General
869, before he alluded to the clauses relative to unlicensed places for debating and discussion, would only call the attention of the House to one or two of the many questions of the sort which had been debated and discussed, as it was called, within the last six weeks, ill different parts of the metropolis. Perhaps it would be sufficient to observe that what he held in his hand purported to have been a question propounded at a place called Hopkins's Chapel, near Berwick-street, Soho, on the 24th of November last. The notice of the meeting ran in these terms: —"This evening the following question will be debated; Which of the three professions has the greatest tendency to harden the human heart—the hangman, the grave-digger, or the parson?" He need not say in what manner that question was decided. Another question was, "Whe-
869The Attorney General
 wished to ask the hon. and learned gentleman whether any prosecution had been instituted against the authors of the two first papers which he had read?Sir R. Heron
 said, that no prosecution had been commenced; but a bill had been found against one of the persons who attended at the meeting, for the seditious and blasphemous opinions he had there maintained.The Attorney General
 desired to know, whether the clause was meant to apply to meetings for the discussion of philosophical or scientific subjects.Mr. Alderman Wood
 said, the clause only applied to places where money was received.The Attorney General
 objected to one part of this clause. He did not know what disorderly houses meant, except in one sense, which he did not care to name. He should move that those words be omitted.Mr. Denman
 objected to the clause relative to the revocation of licences. As the bill now stood, a man might be ruined, and never know the cause of his misfortunes. He should therefore move, that after the words "complaint made," the words, "upon full evidence and information on oath," be inserted.Mr. Denman
, adverting to the clause relative to the limitation of actions, said, that if he read it rightly, actions against individuals charged with the offences contemplated by this bill, might be proceeded in, within a term of six months; but if any of those individuals should happen to have been committed under an erroneous impression, they must prosecute the magistrates, upon whose warrants they had been so falsely committed, within three months. This surely required explanation. The clause went on to say, that if the plaintiff in the latter case should become nonsuited, or the jury should find a verdict for the defendant, or if, upon demurrer, judgment should be given, as against the plaintiff, the defendant should have double costs. This, too, was to be noticed; because it was evident how very cautious it would have the effect of making persons in adopting proceedings against any magistrate.Lord Folkestone
 rose, for the purpose of proposing some new clauses. His first clause was, that in those cases where strangers, or persons who had no right to attend at a particular meeting, were present, and after being ordered to withdraw. refused to go, it should be lawful for any person or persons (having a right to attend at such meeting) to take the person so refusing into custody, and bring him before the next magistrate, to be dealt with according to the act. This clause was read a first time. On its second reading,Lord Castlereagh
pairing off objected to it, and contended that it would be manifestly absurd if carried into effect. It went to give any man who had a right to attend at such a meeting a power of a special constable, and also to take away all those who had not the right to attend. Now suppose, as he understood was the case at Manchester, there were 20,000 out of the 30,000 who might have attended, who had no right at all to attend under this bill, what would be the consequence? Or suppose, to take small numbers, there was a meeting assembled of 1,500 persons, of whom only 500 had a right to be present, did the noble lord mean to say that every man who had a right to attend should arrest one who had no right; or, to speak in short terms, that each lawful man should arrest his radical and take him off? Now, in such a case, all the 500 men who would have a legal right to attend, would be engaged in taking away 500 of those who had no such right; or, as he might say, in "pairing offMr. Brougham
872 was surprised at the extravagant construction which the hon.
872Lord Castlereagh
 opposed the clause, and denied that it was more easy to transport arras than assemblies from one county to another. The tranquil part of the country, he was satisfied, would feel themselves aggrieved if the bill was not extended for their protection.Mr. Cartwright
 thought it strange that any of the quiet counties should feel aggrieved at not being placed under the ban of this act; and he was sure he might say for his own constituents, that they would feel much aggrieved, if, without any act of disloyalty upon their parts, they were exposed to all the hardships and severities of such a measure.Mr. Honywood
874 said, that with the opinion he entertained as to the danger of the country, he could not refuse his support to the bill; but, on considering its provisions, the amendment proposed by his noble friend appeared to deserve the adoption of the House. He was sure the noble secretary of state would feel the necessity of carrying along with him in those measures as much of public opinion as possible; and when he considered the measures of 1817, he would find, that nothing had tended so much to render the Habeas Corpus act odious in the eyes of the community as the indiscrimate universality of its operation. There were many who admitted the existence of danger, and yet thought it hard, unjust, and iniquitous, that those who had committed no fault should be exposed to its severity. He could assure the noble lord, that the same feeling would operate with regard to
874Mr. W Lamb
875 admitted the necessity of carrying along with these measures as much of public opinion as was possible; but the first object was, to carry their purpose into effect. No fact could be more plainly proved than the necessity upon which they were legislating. He would not now discuss the extent of the danger, as he might assume that it was admitted by the House. This danger did not arise merely from distress, a system had been pursued which was not the creature of distress, though it had availed itself of the advantages supplied from that source. The question therefore was, whether, with the conviction that such a spirit was in existence, with a knowledge of its increasing activity in making converts, and of the distress which constituted its chief aliment, they should anticipate the danger, or leave the country, not to the chance of a small evil, but to the chance of an evil growing to that extent which might soon require, not measures of prevention, but of suppression and dispersion. Two engines were employed for the propagation of a system, the object of which was national and not local—those engines were public meetings and the press. Could any one imagine that local bills would succeed in putting it down— or was it not more probable that they would have to follow the disaffected with unequal steps into other counties? It was necessary to destroy their hopes, and show them that parliament was determined to crush their designs. An hon. gentleman had said, that the system could not be
875Mr. Grant
 did not mean to say that something of this kind was not necessary; but he thought that it should be strictly confined to the necessity of the case. If the bill was limited, as proposed by the amendment, it would be adequate to all its objects, for magistrates could correspond with ministers sufficiently early to prevent inconvenient or dangerous meetings.Sir M. W. Ridley
 felt that he should be wanting in the duty which he owed to the populous and loyal county which he had the honour of representing, if he did not oppose the extension of these measures to it. He entered his protest against including the loyal and peaceable inhabitants of Devon in this measure. It was urged, that the seditious leaders would, if the measure was made local, extend themselves to the peaceable counties. Even if they did, it would be impossible for them to produce any effect in the county where he resided. He therefore felt it his duty to support the amendment.Lord Ebrington
876 agreed with his noble friend, that infinitely the largest
876Mr. W. Courlenay
 said, that whatever difference might exist as to the necessity which called for coercive measures, he thought they all agreed in feeling reluctance in passing them. There was but one way of demonstrating that general feeling, and that was by limiting those measures to the strict necessity which called for them. This measure was to be limited in a two-fold way—in point of time and in point of extent. The time had been already fixed, and for a period which he regretted as he thought a much shorter time would be sufficient. The extent in point of district was still to be limited. He would ask, whether his noble friend had not provided for any emergency in counties proposed to be exempted from this bill? He should like to hear something like an answer to this from the other side of the House. What could be required more, than that the magistrates should have the power of proclaiming their county, in whole or in part, subject to the operation of this bill? At least the onus was upon the other side.Mr. Macdonald
 fully concurred in the reasons urged for limiting the bill, and felt disposed to support the amendment for other reasons. The hon. member for Exeter had stated, that the part of the country with which he was connected was well disposed. His noble friend, the member for Northamptonshire, had said the same of that county. He could make the same statement respecting the county in which he lived—he meant Huntingdonshire. It was a French saying, that where nothing exists, the king loses his rights; so he would say of this bill. Whatever ground there might exist for passing it in the manufacturing districts, no necessity for its extension to agricultural districts could exist, but in the imaginations of men who saw nothing but radical meetings all over the country, threatening fire and destruction to all within their reach.Lord Milton
877 opposed the amendment. If the measure was made local, the evil would spread itself, and parliament would
877Mr. Mansfield
 said, that if he was convinced of the efficacy of the clause he would vote for it. It was the wish of all that some efficacious measures should be adopted. It was urged that the great bulk of the people were loyal. Why, then were the great bulk of the people to be subjected to the same restrictions as the disaffected? There were several counties in England where the term radical reform would not be understood. The most certain mode of spreading the evil would be by passing this law, as it would excite the curiosity of the people to discover what it was enacted to prevent. The best way of convincing the people of the benefit of entertaining loyal principles, would be to let those who did not abuse their liberties, continue in the enjoyment of them; while those who abused were punished by being deprived of them. The bill would have a dangerous tendency, by showing that the loyal and the disaffected were treated with equal rigour.Mr. Barham
 considered the present bill as intended for the defence of our rights and liberties. What was liberty? Was it not the right of doing what a wise and good man would wish to do? They were legislating, not for mischievous agitators, but for the liberties of the people.Mr. Cooper
878 strongly objected to the clause. He also objected to the measure altogether as it regarded Ireland, where according to the statement of the noble lord himself, the greatest tranquillity and prosperity existed. Even in this country he did not think it would effect the end proposed. The conduct of ministers reminded him of a little French tale which he read some time since. There was a very ugly knight, but a man of great wisdom, who fell in love with a beautiful young lady, who, notwithstanding was very indiscreet. The knight thought the folly of the young lady could make no obstacle to their union, "for," said he, "our children will possess all the beauty of their mother, with all the wisdom of their father." Unfortunately the knight was mistaken. The children possessed all the ugliness of the father, with all the folly of their mother. Now, so it was With the question before them. This boasted beauty, the privilege of the people, was as a corrective to its indiscretion
878Mr. W. Parnell
 said, he was anxious to impress upon the House, that, in the event of the amendment being negatived, he was determined to bring it forward, as far as Ireland was concerned, on the bringing up of the report. In doing this, he trusted that he should receive the support and co-operation of every independent member of that House. Though he had not any immediate connexion with the right hon. the secretary for Ireland, he could not but express his regret at the speech which he had made that night. When he recollected the brilliancy with which that right hon. gentleman had conducted himself, both before and since he commenced his public career, when he considered the efforts he had made in another quarter, he could not help feeling a sincere anxiety, for the consistency of his political character. He did not express this regret from a feeling that his country could be benefitted by the exertions of any right hon. gentleman, but from a respect for the right hon. gentleman's former exertions. Mr. Hutchinson
 said, his constituents deprecated the extension of this measure to them, and had told him that there was no-occasion for it in Gloucestershire. He would therefore support the amendment.Sir W. Guise
 pledged himself to oppose any attempt to prevent this measure being extended to Ireland. It was calculated to produce peace and happiness in that country.Mr. R. Martin
 protested in the name of his country against the measure. It was said that it would be a blessing to the sister kingdom. It may be so, but from such blessings good Lord deliver us.Sir R. Fergusson
 replied, chiefly to the neighbourhood of Glasgow.The Lord Advocate
 thought that the information communicated by magistrates should always be treated with respect. It was too much the custom, on one side of the House, to represent such information as coming from government spies.Sir C. Burrell
 gave his assent to the object of this measure, which he should have thought useless if the magistrates had done their duty.Lord Folkestone
 was quite satisfied with the mode proposed by his noble friend, which would mark, in some way, the feeling of the Houses He had no hesitation, on the part of the magistrates of Yorkshire, in saying that they considered themselves perfectly warranted in proceeding against the persons who met for training: the only difficulty was in obtaining proof against individuals—but he believed such proof was now obtained, and he expected some of them were in custody.Mr. S. Woortley
856 was surprised at the incredulity which the hon. member for Carlisle intimated, that he had till recently entertained with regard to the existence of these practices. All he could say was, that in the county of Lancashire they had been going on for a long period, and it was matter of general astonishment that legal proceedings had not been before instituted. Several persons had indeed been apprehended, but no prosecution had followed, and they were dismissed on promises of good behaviour. This was done, he believed, from doubt as to the illegality of the offence charged. He agreed with Mr. Brougham, that it was an offence at common law; but if it were not, it evidently ought to be made one; for it created not only alarm, but real danger.
856Lord Stanley
853 said, that no one could be more anxious than he was to put down any of those practices against which this bill was directed. But at the same time he was desirous of proceeding with due caution, and in such a manner as not to establish a precedent for mischievous measures hereafter. The House would see that they were now called on to proceed without observing their usual forms, not on any communication made by his majesty's government, but on a communication made by a private individual, however high the character of that individual might be, and whatever credit might be due to what had the sanction of his authority. It was singular enough that these communications, instead of being made by lord Sidmouth, or even by the lord lieutenant of the county in which the training was said to take place, who was a member of that House, should be made by one of the members for that county. With respect to the practice of training, if this practice was not already liable to animadversion, he was willing to make it so. He had thought that by the existing laws, this practice could be stopt; but he now understood this was not the case. If the practice was not now punishable, it ought with all convenient dispatch; to be made so. No friend of liberty, could wish a practice of this sort to go on unchecked. But, then, see how the House was placed. There was nothing on their journals as a warrant for their proceeding, which was merely founded on the communication of an individual member of the House. When the House at once passed the bill suspending the Habeas Corpus act, they proceeded on a message from the throne, and a communication from his majesty's ministers, and it was proper to pass the measure, if at all, without delay, because otherwise the par-
853Mr. Tierney
855 said, he was rather surprised that any magistrates should entertain a shadow of doubt as to their power of preventing these nightly drills. If seventy or eighty men, even if they were armed only with clubs, but certainly if they were armed with pikes, met at mid-night, or under the cloud of night, for the purpose of training, there was only at shadow of difference between this crime and the highest crime known in law, that of levying war against the state. Surely those who thought the meeting at Manchester illegal, ought to think a meeting by night of persons, armed with pikes, illegal. Those who saw these practices ought to have given warning to the magistrates, who should have called out the yeomanry, and if the yeomanry were insufficient, the military also, to put down these trainings, and endeavour to secure some of the persons engaged in them. It was now between two and three months since he was in Carlisle, and he then heard the same account which was now given. Good God! where were the magistrates all the while? As to their saying they looked to his majesty's ministers for protection, and then to the opposition—he would merely observe, why did they not look to their own magistrates? He had no manner of doubt that the practice, of training was illegal, and a new law was
855Mr. Brougham
 said, that the inhabitants of Carlisle were under very great alarm, lest they should be attacked. At the same time he must say, the inhabitants in general were well-disposed, and the number of the disaffected very small. He did not believe the number of those who were badly disposed exceeded 4 or 500; but still these persons had arms in their hands, and were able to destroy the whole place. The cutting down of plantations had taken place to a great extent, for the purpose of obtaining staves to their pikes. The magistrates discovered that pikes had been made by blacksmiths to a very great extent. One of those who communicated the circumstance to the magistrates had received an order to make twelve dozen of pikes; but the other blacksmiths who had received orders did not choose to make any communication. Every inhabitant of Carlisle looked up to his majesty's ministers for protection, and if they did not receive that protection from ministers, they would look up to the opposition for it [laugh]; for they must have protection.Sir James Graham
 said, that his noble friend, the lord lieutenant of the West Riding of Yorkshire (lord Lascelles), had felt it his duty to leave town last night for Yorkshire, after the adjournment of the House. He was the more anxious this bill should pass without delay, as a meeting was advertised to be held at Barnsley on Monday next, and it was held out by those people who proposed to attend the meeting, that they were to go armed—a circumstance which had caused no small alarm in that neighbourhood.Mr. Stuart Wortley
852 said, that some circumstances had recently come to his knowledge which made him think it necessary that this bill should go through all its stages in as short a time as possible. Up to this time it had been said that training existed only in Lancaster. He had now documents in his hands which showed that it extended to Yorkshire, and was spreading to an alarming degree. He had been informed that a number of persons had been seen drilling in the neighbourhood of Barnsley last Friday night. He immediately wrote, desiring his informant to lay his depositions before sir — Wood. He held sir—Wood's letter in his hand. It stated that the training at Barnsley was notorious. He had also a second letter, containing the examination of persons whom it would be imprudent then to name, who had witnessed trainings of upwards of 200 men near Barnsley, on the nights of Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. The men had poles about eight feet long, which they exercised as muskets. On Monday night deponent was within 150 yards of these men, and it being light, he could see on the tops of the poles something shining like bayonets, and which he believed to be pike-heads. This morning he had received a letter from a gentleman named Forbes, a man whose politics were rather opposed to his own. That gentleman had witnessed a body of from 70 to 100 training on the night of Tuesday the 30th ult. They had poles about 8 feet long in their hands; and be distinctly heard the
852Mr. Stuart Wortley
 agreed that training was an offence which ought to be put down. The House by showing an unanimous opinion to that effect, would, he was satisfied, recover many from delusion, and secure the punishment of irreclaimable offenders.Mr. Calcraft
 said, his original doubt existed, because he had not at that time met with any person who had actually seen this drilling and training practised. Whatever might be the case in Lancashire, he was firmly persuaded that the far greater part of the people in Cumberland were loyal and well disposed. He never would believe until the fact was proved; to him, that any men could be desirous of overthrowing a constitution under which they enjoyed so many blessings.Mr. Curwen
 said, that much as he lamented the existence of the practice of training, he could not entertain the smallest doubt, that this practice had taken place in the neighbourhood of Carlisle, as he had received the information from various respectable persons who had seen the parties. He owned that at one time he was in considerable doubt as to the fact of trainings taking place; but now he had not the least doubt. The inhabitants of the neighbourhood were most anxious that a stop should be put to this practice without delay.Mr. Curwen
 concurred in all that had been said, as to the immediate necessity of putting down practices which were as illegal as they were dangerous. He wished, however, to learn whether they were not understood to be confined to very small districts in Scotland.Mr. J. P. Grant
882 could assure the hon. gentleman that he had not seen any such report of deputy-lieutenancy as he had alluded to, though he would not pretend to assert, till he had inquired into the matter, that no such report had been received. As to the county of Durham, he had never said that it was in a state of open disturbance; but still there might be evil designs entertained by some individuals residing within it, against which it was the bounden duty of government to guard. The hon. gentleman maintained that there were no such designs: but his assertions on that head were no more proof of the non-existence, than that the assertions on the other side were of the existence of such projects. He (lord Castlereagh) would refer the House to what the hon. gentleman had himself allowed on a former occasion: he had said that there was a meeting of 40,000 persons at Newcastle, and that of these 40,000, 7,000 marched to it under military organization; and yet with these admissions staring him in the face, he now came forward to say, that all the danger which he apprehended was from the proceedings of the House, and to propose,
882Lord Castlereagh
 hoped that the House would allow him to read a letter which he had just received, and which referred to a subject, on which some conversation had occurred on a former night. The letter was to the following effect:—"My dear Sir; having Just seen an account of what passed last night in the House of Commons between Mr. Wodehouse and yourself, I have additional reason to lament the having been confined almost the last week to my bed with the gout, as it prevented my stating in my place in the House, that at your request I accompanied you by appointment to the lord chancellor's private room in the House of Lords, when every thing passed that you so correctly stated in the House of Commons. [Hear!]. Believe me your very much obliged; M. B. Folkes Mansfield-street, Thursday morning." The only gentleman who was not inserted in the commission, after his application to the lord chancellor, was the hon. G. Walpole.Mr. Coke
 deprecated the re-introduction of this subject to the House, after what had fallen from the Speaker on a former evening. He must however remark, that if he, as lord lieutenant of the county, had told any gentleman that he would insert in the commission of the peace any names which he would recommend, he should have expected, as a mark of personal civility, that they should not be left at the office of the clerk of the peace: indeed, if they had been so left, he should have treated them just as if they had been anonymous communications.Lord Castlercagh
890 said, that he did not see upon what grounds he could be accused of having exhibited a want of courtesy in this business. If Mr. Wodehouse had
890Mr. Coke
 said, that the subject had been introduced into the House in consequence of what had previously occurred between his hon. colleague and himself. He had asked him, and he conceived it his undoubted right to ask, a question upon this subject. His hon. colleague replied, "If you doubt my word, sir, ask me any question in your place, and I will answer it." "Very well, sir;" replied Mr. Wodehouse, "I will." He could appeal to all within the walls of that House, and to all who had any ingenuous feelings about them, whether it facilitated any explanation to make it matter of discussion in that House. He had only to add, that he had felt no distrust of his hon. colleague's candour and firmness. All he had said was, that he should never again place his hon. colleague in the situation of making such an explanation, or put himself to the pain of asking such questions.Mr. Wodehouse
 regretted that the hon. member had not spoken to order earlier. He had only to observe, that he should have left his noble friend under a charge, if he had not stood up and made the observations which he had made.Lord Castlereagh
902901 observed, that he did not rise to, follow the hon. member through the extensive details into which
902901Lord Castlereagh
910909minimums.d.s.908l.907sauve qui peut906905904903 said, he could not see in the proposition for the committee any ground for the objections of the noble lord. Such a committee, even from the very words of the motion could not be presumed to take the course supposed by the noble lord. He was as averse as any man to confound political inquiries with an investigation into the state of the unparalleled distress notoriously existing in the manufacturing districts. It might be stated in the motion that the inquiry should be purely commercial; the attempt to go farther would be mixing questions calculated to counteract the
910909minimums.d.s.908l.907sauve qui peut906905904903Mr. Baring
916s.s.s.s.minimum915 expressed his hope that a good effect would be produced by the observations of his hon. friend respecting Orange meetings, although, no doubt, the noble lord classed these observations among those which ought not to have been made-He was convinced that the influence of his hon. friend's opinions on those persons in Lancashire who had been alluded to, was very considerable. If, also, it appeared from what had been said respecting the appointment of magistrates, that the pre- sent system tended to produce magistrates of one class of political opinions only, that surely was a great evil. The only valid objection which, in his opinion, had been made to the motion, was founded on a
916s.s.s.s.minimum915Mr. Philips
920919état major918917bona fide was anxious to address the House, lest it should be supposed that he was adverse to all inquiry.—Had the motion been 920919état major918917bona fideMr. Stuart Worthy
928927926925924923s.s.s.s.922 said, its was impossible for any man to view this question., and not to see that the interests of England were inseparably connected with those of Scotland. He should offer no exaggerated statement to the House because he conceived statements of that character to be highly injurious. He believed indeed, that nothing had given greater confidence to the reformers, in the several parts of the kingdom, than the exaggerated accounts which had been propagated of the numbers attending their meetings, and of their importance in other respects. At the same, it was necessary that the House should know the real state of that part of the kingdom with which he was connected. Independently of the assurance which had been given, that the reformers in England looked with confidence for assistance from their northern friends he had no difficulty in saying that Scotland, was in an unpleasant and alarming state, which rendered the measures now before parliament absolutely necessary, to preserve her tranquillity and even with them the utmost vigilance of the magistracy, and the best exertions of all the well-disposed portion of the community. At the same time, should it ever be brought, to the test, he did not doubt that Scotland would be true to itself, and would disappoint the expectations of the disaffected in other parts. That evil passions should predominate in some parts of the North would not appear strange, when hon. gentlemen considered the exceeding populousness of some of the principal manufacturing towns. Glasgow was, hardly inferior in this respect to any place in the kingdom; and Paisley also contained a large population. Both had suffered severely, but it afforded him pleasure to be able to state, that in Glasgow a great part of the people had suffered without a murmur. He regretted, however, to say, that discontent was not confined to those who were in distress, but had spread among
928927926925924923s.s.s.s.922The Lord Advocate
935minimumminimum934 said, he rose to disclaim the sentiment imputed to him by the hon. members for Taunton and Coventry, that parliament had now to make their option between the continuance of British manufacture and the continuance of the British constitution. He had never said any such thing. What he had said was, that while persons were to be found who wished to take advantage of the distresses of trade, for personal objects, he viewed with alarm the state of the manufacturing districts of the country, thus influenced by designing men. He had said: that he saw a clear distinction between agriculture and manufactures; that there was a constant demand for food, but not for manufactures; and he had referred to various causes depressive, of the working manufacturers, especially the perfection of machinery; but he had never said that which was imputed to him; and, indeed it would have been a sentiment coming with a very bad grace from one who was so much indebted to manufactures. As to the motion before the House, he had never experienced greater difficulty than, he felt with respect to it when he came down to the House; but that difficulty had been removed by the speech, of the hon. mover, who had not, as he expected, he would do, confined himself to these; topics which his humanity would naturally, have suggested to him, and abstained from the introduction of all political questions. At the same time he was bound to say, that had the hon. mover not so acted (he Mr. Peel) should have found great difficulty in entering on the inquiry; as his, feelings would have conflicted with: his sober judgment on the subject.—What had since occurred in the debate would have confirmed him in the inexpediency of instituting the proposed inquiry; from the conviction of the impossibility of devising any measure calculated to relieve those who were suffering distress. The hon. gentleman who had just sat down, had adverted to two subjects—the tax on wool and the tax on silk—which he recommended to the notice of the proposed committee. To those many others of a
935minimumminimum934Mr. Peel
937l.936 expressed his pleasure that the right hon. gentleman, who had just sat down had had an opportunity of correcting an error into which he (Mr. Grant) had fallen, in common with many others. The sentiment which his hon. friend had supposed the right hon. gentleman to have uttered was certainly most dangerous to the constitution. In reference to the speech of the learned lord advocate he observed, that lamentable distress prevailed in all the manufacturing districts of England and Scotland; that distress had given rise to disaffection, and that both well deserved minute investigation. He maintained, that although a meeting had been held at Dundee it had been very thinly attended, and that discontent had yet reached but a small part of the population. He expressed his surprise that ministers had not themselves brought forward the subject much earlier: it was admitted by them that the people were suffering under a degree of distress that language could scarcely describe, and yet they had been able to assign no rational ground for refusing to investigate. It was asked what plan was to be proposed for adoption if a committee were appointed? But surely it was not necessary to state any specific project. The business of the committee was, to discover a remedy. If a remedy could be found without a committee, it would only occasion needless delay to go through the inquiry. If, however, in the result, no remedy could be pointed out, the country would at least rest satisfied that the utmost had been done, and that in this instance at least parliament was not to blame. A part of
937l.936Mr. J. P. Grunt
952951950coup d' ceil.949948║947bona fide946 said, although he hoped he was not often guilty of shrinking from a call when openly made upon him, yet he
952951950coup d' ceil.949948║947bona fide946Mr. Canning
954953 said, that the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down had observed, that it would have been better for the House and the country, if the motion had not been introduced by his hon. friend in the manner in which he had brought it forward. He, however, anticipated much benefit to the country from this discussion; and he approved entirely of the spirit and manner in which his hon. friend had treated the question. He had thrown a considerable light on the subject, and explained many circumstances that were not known before. The right hon. gentleman had objected, that his hon. friend had taken that opportunity to introduce political matters. Now, in his (lord Folkestone's) view of the question, it was quite impossible to consider the state of the manufacturing districts without adverting to political topics. They had learned in the course of the debate, that the greatest distress existed in the country. That fact, which had been denied over and over again, was now fully admitted, and had indeed rivetted the attention of the House during the whole discussion. The hon. member for Bramber had stated, that the distress of the country had arisen solely from the war; for that it was impossible to suppose, according to their ideas of Divine Providence, that a thing so atrocious as war was, should not be followed by a variety of evils. He begged to remind the hon. gentleman that the late war was, from the beginning to the end, supported by the hon. member himself [Mr. Wilberforce here mo-
954953Lord Folkestone
, in explanation, declared that he had always considered the measures now proposed to parliament as a diminution of liberty; but there was only the alternative between those measures and anarchy and confusion.Mr. Peel
 said, he wished to put a question to the hon. member for Yorkshire. It was, whether he intended to take any parliamentary notice of the paragraphs in a pamphlet which he had read in the course of the debate, reflecting so strongly on the character of the House.Mr. Courtenay
 replied, that he had merely referred to them in the course of argument, and did not intend to found any proceeding upon them.Mr. S. Worthy
956 said, that he felt it his
956Mr. Courtenay
 said, that as the publication had been brought before parliament, he felt himself bound to call upon the House to assert its privileges by summoning the author of it to their bar. He therefore gave notice, that to-morrow evening he should move a resolution to that effect.Mr. Courtenay
 rose to present a petition from the electors of Westminster, against the coercive measures now under the consideration of parliament. It had been resolved on at a numerous, and he would add, an orderly and well-conducted meeting of those electors. It expressed as strongly as it did justly, the dissatisfaction which they felt at the proposal of such measures, and the hope which they entertained that time would be given to the country to declare its opinions upon measures which were allowed to be of an unconstitutional tendency by all, even by those who admitted the temporary necessity of them. No pressing necessity existed for forcing them with such haste through the House, and he therefore implored hon. gentlemen to give to the country that extension of time which the petitioners so earnestly desired. The hon. baronet then moved that the petition be brought up.Sir Francis Burdett
 spoke to order, as there Was no question before the House.Mr. G. Lamb
 said, he did not rise with any view of prolonging the debate which had arisen, but merely to state that the meeting at which the petition now before the House was agreed to, was highly respectable and most orderly in its behaviour. He would not say that another meeting had drawn away from them those who wished for noise and riot; but he would say, that the meeting which had voted this petition was as respectable as any public meeting which he had ever witnessed.Mr. G. Lamb
 admitted the statement of the lord advocate, that a part of Scotland was in a disturbed state, but he denied that disturbance existed to the degree which he pointed out. He was convinced that at least two thirds of Lanarkshire were sound and loyal. The cause of the discontent was distress; and white that cause continued, the effect must also Continue. The people were obliged to work fourteen hours a day, and could obtain only meal and milk for their support. Distress was much more prevalent than disaffection, and he could contemplate no reasonable ground for refusing the motion for inquiry. Ministers ought to apply their minds to prevent as well as to punish, but hitherto the latter only had received their attention. If they had any plan by which they could relieve the distresses of the poor, they ought to bring it forward; if they had not, he could hot see why they refused to accede to the motion before the House.Lord Archibald Hamilton
 trusted that the motion of to-night would be brought forward at some future period in a less general and obnoxious shape. If it had excluded politics, he would have given it his support.Mr. Davenport
912║911custos rotulorum,minimum observed, that the speech of the honourable gentleman who had just sat down, had done him infinite credit. But he could concur in the view of the hon. gentleman with the establishment of a 912║911custos rotulorum,minimumMr. Bootle Wilbraham
933932931s.d.s.s.d.s.930l.l.l.,929 said, that if he had not accidentally heard the latter part of the speech of the learned lord who had just sat down (having quitted the House for a short time), he should have thought the learned lord had been all along speaking on the report of the bill for the suppression of seditious meetings. The learned lord's speech throughout, in his opinion, had nothing in the world to do with the question before the House. For his own part, he had come down to the House with a determination to bend his mind solely to the subject which was under its consideration, and to that he would address the few observations which the House might allow him to make. He felt, however, that he could scarcely say any thing on the subject, without diminishing the effect of the admirable speech which had been made by his hon. friend near him, in almost every one of whose, statements and arguments he cordially concurred; and in nothing more than in his intreaty to the noble lord opposite to review his determination to oppose the appointment of a
933932931s.d.s.s.d.s.930l.l.l.,929Mr. Ellice
 begged to observe, that his hon. friend (Mr. Coke) had fairly and honourably answered all the questions, and refuted all the charges, which arose from this subject. When he had done so, up got the noble lord, and began to accuse the lord lieutenant of the county, against whom no charge had been made. It appeared quite evident, that the lord chancellor was unfortunate in his recollection, and that his hon. friend stood acquitted of all blame. Mr. Tierney
945944l.l.943942941940939 promised to trouble the House very shortly. In truth, little or nothing had been offered on the other side which called for an answer. True it was
945944l.l.943942941940939Mr. Tierney
955 could not help thinking that the right hon. gentleman had acted unfairly in charging him with introducing the motion before the House in the shape of a party question. He had set out with declaring it as his intention not to make it a party question, and he had cautiously
955Mr. Bennet
ad libitum.900899l.l.,898s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s,897896895d.s.s.894d.s.d.s.s.893d.s.s.s.s.892891 rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move the appointment of a committee to inquire into the state of the manufacturing districts of this country. He said he could assure the
ad libitum.900899l.l.,898s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s.s,897896895d.s.s.894d.s.d.s.s.893d.s.s.s.s.892891Mr. Bennet
 said, that upon a notice So suddenly given, he could not but implore his hon. and learned friend to check his present indignation, and to consult his pillow before he pressed his motion on the House". If it was persisted in, it would compel the House to go into a question of privilege, and then they must notice all the other publications which contained similar misrepresentations of their motives and conduct. The hon. member for Yorkshire had allowed that he had merely read the paragraphs in the way of argument. Were they never, then, to read publications like these to the House, without being under the necessity of dragging the authors to their bar? If they entered into every question of privilege, they would be brought into a distressing situation; they would either be induced to do too much, or would be compelled to do nothing at all. There certainly were occasions on which their privileged ought to be asserted; but the seldomer this was done, the better would it be for themselves and the country.Mr. Brougham
 entreated his hon. and learned friend to reflect well before he determined on such a proceeding. The House had a number of privileges which had been violated at many recent meetings, and some of those violations were infinitely worse than those of which complaint was now made If they went into this breach of privilege, they must also go into the others; and then he conceived that they must issue warrants, not only against those who moved the resolutions which contained such breach of privileges, but against every man at the meeting who consented to them; for they would not surely contend that those who adopted the resolutions were not as guilty as those who proposed them.Mr. Brougham
881880† seconded the motion, and expressed his concurrence with the wishes of the petitioners. At the same time, he took the opportunity of saying, that he had that morning received a communication from the country, containing statements in direct opposition to those made on a former evening by the noble secretary of state, and to which he wished to call that hon. member's most particular attention. It was in allusion to the noble
881880†Mr. Lambton
 said, after the debate he had heard that evening; he was really at a loss to know on which side to give his vote. It would be a most gratifying thing to his mind if a committee were appointed to consider of the causes of the present distressed state of the country, unaccompanied, however, with any political feeling. He regretted, however, that the hon. gentleman who had opened the debate should have allowed himself to be led away by party feeling. It was impossible for him to support an inquiry which included so many questions of politics as might be embraced by the motion. Were the political part of the proposal separated from that which was purely commercial, a committee to inquire into the latter should receive his hearty concurrence.Mr. Mansfield
921 said, there was a feeling among the working population of Scotland, that by the dispersion of the meeting at Manchester their rights were affected. He thought the parliament should show that the rights and interests of the people were not disregarded, and on that principle he should vote for inquiry, without any intention of supporting the wild political doctrines which were advocated by some persons. The first effect of distress among the manufacturers was, that they took away their children from school; the next, on dissenters, that they could not support their religious establishments. With the decay of religion and education, the sources of national, and especially manufacturing prosperity, must be weakened. There was a notion among the people, that the House had lost all sympathy with the people.—He hoped the
921Mr. Maxwell
, in explanation, utterly disclaimed any intention of depreciating machineryMr. J. Smith
 alluded to the rapid inroad which machinery had made upon manual labour within only a few years. He did not mean to contend that this was not a great improvement upon the old system, but it was an undoubted fact that it had thrown a great many hands out of employment. He had attended to this point for some years, and he did not think that the attention of a committee could be directed to a more important object. He had listened to the speech of the right hon. member for Oxford with the utmost pain; the conclusion to be drawn from which was, that the wretched sufferers could hope for relief. He had hoped that some species of compromise would have been effected, in order that so important a subject might have been fairly entered upon; and it gave him great surprise, and not less concern, that ministers refused to inquire at all He was anxious for some inquiry into the existing evil; because, sooner or later he was convinced it would press itself on the attention of parliament. So many wretched persons in want of food, could not rest contented in a state so deplorable. Some remedy ought at least, to be sought, if it could not be found; and he would cheerfully vote even for a property tax, if it were so regulated as to fall only on those who could afford to pay for the relief of the poor.Mr. John Smith
887l.l.l.l.886885884883 described the meeting which took place on Wednesday in Smithfield, as one of the most despicable public meetings which he had ever seen. Those who composed it were dirty boys, women, and children; and if there Wits any thing respectable about it, it was
887l.l.l.l.886885884883Mr. Alderman Waithman
minimum938 observed, that when it was admitted on all hands that distress was the great cause of the prevailing discontents, it was, to Say the least of it, ungracious not to inquire in to the causes of that distress. On the other hand, he could not but deprecate with his utmost force, holding out to the poor that dismal delusion, that the destruction, of machinery would alleviate their sufferings. If the manufacturers were to be relieved by an increase of foreign demand and home consumption, it was the most absolute folly to assert that that object could be accomplished by making manufactures clearer, which would be the inevitable and obvious effect of putting a stop to the use of machinery. It might, indeed, be advantageous for a very transient period, and to a few persons in insulated situations, but it must totally destroy by the roots the whole exportation trade of the kingdom. Regarding the project for fix-
minimum938Mr. William Smith
 expressed his perfect confidence in the declaration of his hon. friend.Mr. W. Smith
914913 said, he regretted that those persons who were so clamorous in decrying the constitution, could not hear the excellent speech of his hon. friend—could not hear him assert, that under that excellent constitution, we had become a great, industrious, prosperous, and moral people. That speech marked a most laudable respect for the religion and morals of the country, and was eminently calculated to discountenance the spirit of blasphemy and disaffection, which was at present unhappily so prevalent. He was sorry that they, whose object seemed to be to subvert all order—to destroy all moral and social feeling, under pretence of improving, or as it was said restoring the constitution; he was sorry that these, and the unhappy persons who were deluded by them, could not hear the danger in which his hon. friend had proved the commerce of the country was placed by such practices. His hon. friend had justly said, that commerce and manufactures would depart the land if those seditious practices were continued; for here was the difference between land and commerce in times of public calamity and disturbance—that the value of the one might be much reduced, but the other would be destroyed altogether; and what would be the fate of this country when deprived of this great source of her wealth and prosperity? She would share the fate of those other countries which when deprived of trade, were reduced to the lowest distress, and almost, removed from the rank of nations. The fate of Venice and the Hanse towns showed that commercial prosperity or credit could not co-exist with an alarm as to the instability or insecurity of property. He agreed with his hon. friend, that something should, if possible, be done to look out for employment for those who were now deprived of it. If only a small number were so employed, it would create a proportion between the demand for labour and the supply. Something he thought might be done on this ground, but he conceived that no good could be expected
914913Mr. Wilberforce
, after speaking in terms of high praise of the present chief magistrate of Newcastle, observed, that he was the last person in the country who would be guilty of writing rhodomontade; and that the statements in his letter had no reference to the general state of the country. He implored the House, however, not to believe all the exaggerated statements of alarm which were now abroad, especially with regard to those districts with which he was connected. The letters which he had received from them stated, that though many were alarmed, the alarm was by no means so general as was supposed, and was rapidly subsiding in every quarter. He would mention one fact which would show the nature of the exaggeration which existed, and the causes from which part of that exaggeration arose. A gentleman in the country told a friend with whom he (sir M. W. Ridley) was acquainted, that he had heard the radicals firing at 2 o'clock in the morning: his friend was incredulous, told the gentleman that he was mistaken, set about finding out the cause of his mistake, and ultimately succeeded in proving to the satisfaction of the alarmed man himself, that the firing of the radicals was nothing more than the explosion of one or two retorts employed in some gas-works which were seated near his House.Sir M. W. Ridley
889888 said, that he had a petition to present to the House, which, though it was neither so long as the last nor the result of so numerous a meeting, was yet of very considerable importance. It came from the father, or rather from the family (as it was signed by the father and three brothers, of one who had lost his life on the fatal 16th of August. The petitioner stated, that the deceased went in company with several others, to the meeting held on that day at Manchester, that on endeavouring to escape from the hustings, Bear which he was standing, he received two strokes on the head from a sword; and that in consequence of the wounds he soon afterwards died. This statement, he found, was confirmed by the returns of the Manchester infirmary, and by a verdict of a coroner's inquest, which stated, that the deceased had died in consequence of the cuts which he had received with some sharp instrument, but that it was unknown by whom those cuts were inflicted. The petitioners then proceeded to state, that they had always been taught to believe that in this country there was no wrong, without a remedy; but, un-
889888Lord Milton
993992991990§ rose, in pursuance of his notice, to make a complaint of a pamphlet, an extract from which had been read during the debate of yesterday. The task which he had now undertaken was of the most painful nature, and nothing but a strong conscientious feeling of its necessity could have led him to undertake it. He should, however, have been wanting to himself, and to those privileges which he, as a member of parliament, was bound to defend, if he had not, after what had passed yesterday evening, called the notice of the House to the gross and wanton attack which had been made upon it. Having satisfied his mind that it deserved the notice of the House, he would shortly state the reasons which had induced him to put himself forward on this occasion. One reason was, that he had heard the obnoxious paragraph more distinctly than any other member in the House from his proximity to the hon. member who read it. Another reason was, that he was totally unacquainted with the
993992991990§Mr. Courtenay
994 assented, and handed the pamphlet to the clerk, who read from it the passages quoted by Mr. Courtenay in his speech, and also the title-page, which is as follows:—"A Trifling Mistake in Thomas Lord Erskine's recent Preface shortly noticed, and respectfully
994Mr. Courtenay
996995 said, it appeared to him, that the House never appeared in a more odious view, than when it exercised its privileges in a manner repugnant to the general feelings of the country, and in a manner by no means calculated to satisfy justice. If the present motion was agreed to, that House must appear to the public at large in a very extraordinary view. A few nights since, an inquiry which the whole country demanded, an inquiry undeniably within the inquisitorial functions of the House, was refused, as not suited to the character and powers of that House. But now, all allowed that this was within the province of the House—this invidious, judicial, exercise of its functions. When the real inquisitorial functions of the House were to be exercised, at the desire and for the protection of the people, the House was voted to be an unfit place, and it was so voted by those who on the present occasion would vote the House into a court of justice. It must appear extraordinary, that the House should be now called upon to exert functions which they had been lately told could never be judiciously or usefully exerted. The House had been told, that they were not qualified to sift truth; that they could not stir one step in a judicial inquiry without covering themselves with disgrace; that no public benefit could result from the exercise of such functions. Such was the reply, when the whole country called for the exercise of functions which could be constitutionally and beneficially exercised. But now it was thought proper to institute a judicial proceeding, although no evidence was before them, no evidence could be fairly before them, and truth could not be investigated. Now it was proposed to assume the power of defining laws, and the most difficult and vague of all laws—the law of libel, without giving the accused any possibility of equal trial, or any possibility of obtaining justice. He thought the doing of such an act as this would excite the greatest feeling of disgust throughout the country, and the strongest sense of injustice. Even supposing, for the sake of argument—and it was only
996995Sir Francis Burdett
998997† said, he had heard the hon. baronet's speech with considerable pain, and had felt doubtful whether it was not his duty to have interposed in the course of it. He could not conceive how they could be a House of Commons, how they could act as representatives, or how they could perform their part in the legislature, if they did not protect themselves from libel and insult. The hon. baronet had referred to the demand for inquiry lately made, at least by a part of the people of England,
998997†Mr. Bankes
 said, that his sole object at present was, to call the publisher to the bar. He did not pledge himself afterwards to any particular line of conduct.Mr. Courtenay
10041003 was perfectly ready to agree to the original resolution, and at once to state his opinion that the language in question was a gross and glaring libel, and a direct incitement to the use of violence
10041003Mr. Wynn
 having moved the order of the day for the second reading of this bill,Lord Castlereagh
1005 said, he had no intention whatever to provoke a debate in the present stage of the measure. His objection was not so much to the principle of the bill, which was local and temporary, as to certain provisions of it. Therefore he thought it most advisable to let it pass the second reading and go into the committee, where perhaps the amendments might be adopted, which he thought requisite. If
1005Mr. Tierney
 hoped the whole of the county of Northumberland would not be put under the operation of the bill. All its purposes would be answered by making it act on certain parts thereof.Mr. Bennet
 hoped the noble lord would feel it his duty to state to the House whether he had made the inquiry he promised, in consequence of what bad passed in the House last night. He now again asked the noble lord whether he had seen any communication from the deputy-lieutenant of the county of Durham to any of his colleagues, containing a representation at the end of the peaceable state of the county?Mr. Lambton
 said, he had read the communication referred to by the hon. member. But the evidence it afforded did not go the length that the hon. member seemed to imagine. It merely stated that the county was not in a state of tumult at that time, without venturing to assert that tranquillity would be permanent. Now, it had never been alleged, that the county was in a state of actual tumult, but only in such a state as might lead to tumult. The letter was written to lord Sidmouth, in consequence of an application to certain magistrates to call out the yeomanry, by the commanding officer at Newcastle-upon-Tyne, he considering an additional military force necessary for the security of the county. The letter conveyed intelligence of this application, and added what he had before mentioned, as the opinion of, the writer. The South Tyne corps had in fact been put on duty in consequence of the commanding officer's wish. This was the only document he had seen.Lord Castlereagh
1006 declared that his information was of the most alarming kind. A system of communication had been established throughout extensive districts in Durham and Yorkshire, and the spirit of disaffection was on the point of exhibiting itself in armed force. The colliers and pit-men were thoroughly organized, and assembled every day in parties of twenty, their leaders assembling every week. A letter which he had received from a gentleman in that part of the country, and one not easily alarmed, stated, that with-
1006Mr. Wharton
1007 said, that were it not for the disagreeable nature of the subject, he should have been extremely amused at some of the observations of the hon. gentleman, but the subject was too serious for mirth. Yet he thought it a little extraordinary that a gentleman who had not been for some years in the county of Durham, and who, when he did reside there, lived some miles distant from the people against whom he had preferred such heavy charges, should come down to-the House and make assertions concerning persons exactly opposite to what he (Mr. L.) had stated, who lived amongst them, and had caused the most diligent inquiry to be made into their conduct. He then described the contents of a letter he had received from a person who had a few days before been present at a meeting of owners of coal-mines, where the fact of the colliers having arms happened lobe discussed, but not one among them could affirm the fact of his own knowledge. He stated, however, that the colliers had been pretty generally classed, but that that practice was very much abating, and that it had prevailed among the colliers only, and not among the smiths, or any other description of workmen. He never recollected any year in which the men were more anxious to work—he did not remember one idle day among them, but that of the meeting at Newcastle. He had also seen a gentleman from one of the villages to which he had before alluded, who represented every thing there as perfectly quiet. This intelligence had been confirmed by another gentleman from that county, with whom he had recently had a conversation. He had informed him, that many of the persons classed as radicals had left the
1007Mr. Lambton
 said, he believed there was no connexion whatever between the colliers in Northumberland and those in Durham. He lamented extremely, that a bill like the present should be proposed to be continued for two or three years, when it was in fact totally uncalled for by the state of the country.Lord Milton
 mentioned a report from the mayor of Newcastle, which was in the Secretary of state's office for home affairs. It contained the depositions of four respectable individuals, on the subject of the meeting near that place on the 12th October. The hon. gentleman read the substance of three of these depositions. The first stated, that the deponent had no doubt but that the parties marching to the meeting were secretly armed; the second, that the radicals were armed with pikes; and the third, that the deponent believed that upwards of 1,000 had arms in their pockets.Mr. H. Clive
 rose merely to mention a matter to the hon. gentleman (Mr. Lambton), not that the statements of the hon. gentleman would, even if accurate, alter his view of the expediency of the extended measure; but he wished the hon. gentleman to inquire into the truth of the fact which had been stated to him last night, namely, that the agent of the hon. gentleman had discharged from his mines the leaders of these classes. If this was the case, it was curious that so excellent a reformer as the hon. gentleman should have so indifferent an opinion of these reformers as not to trust them even in his coal-mines.Lord Castlereagh
 rose, with considerable warmth, to repel the conjunction of his name with radical reformers. He had-often been attacked for his opposition to their principles, and it was too much for gentlemen who had never ventured to meet them face to face, to taunt him in this way with a sympathy in their doctrines.Mr. Lambton
 said, the noble lord having, with that conciliating manner which no one knew better how to display, disclaimed the intention of imputing those violent principles to him, he of course could not for a moment retain the idea that any thing personal was meant. If his agent had dismissed these men, he was not implicated; and, to be good for any thing, it must be shown that they were discharged on account of their political principles, and for no other cause.Mr. Lambton
 said, he hoped the noble lord, when the bill was considered in the committee, would consent to limit the operation of the bill to three wards in the county of Northumberland, they being the only parts of that county where symptoms of disturbance had manifested themselves.Sir C. Monck
 thought the question now brought before the House the most ill-advised, and the most imprudent that could possibly have been brought before them. When there were so many seditious libels throughout the country—when in the papers on their table was found a resolution, that after the 1st of January, 1820, no obedience ought to be paid to parliament, why should this passage be selected for the judgment of the House? If notice was to be taken of every libel, why was there no notice of the resolution he had mentioned, of similar resolutions at other meetings, of the "Medusa" and the "Republican," every one of which was an offence against the privileges of the House? But the House had the power of prosecuting all libels, either by itself or by the attorney-general; and it had the power of passing laws to prevent or to punish the repetition of those libels. But, to cull out one of the many seditious libellers, and to be satisfied with passing bills respecting the rest, was a measure which did not become the justice of that House. The privileges of the House had been intended, as the hon. baronet had truly said, to protect members against violations of justice which might be committed by the officers of the crown. But cases of privilege were now-little else than complaints of libels in, newspapers. Extraordinary cases might call for the notice of the House; but they ought never to be noticed unless they should be such as the House could not pass over. The passage now brought forward had appeared in a publication out of doors, among many others at least as objectionable. To save time, he would move as an amendment, that Robert Stoddart be called to the bar on the 18th of January next.Lord John Russell
999 said, that as only an isolated passage had been read from the pamphlet, doubts might reasonably arise in the minds of hon. members, who had not read the tract from which it had been taken, as to whether it was or was not libellous [A laugh]. Having
999Mr. Douglas Kinnaird
 said, that the reason he had abstained from reading any part of the pamphlet was, because he would not presume to read the whole of it to the House, without which a fair judgment of its object could not be formed. The passage which had made such an impression on the House was only an incidental one, not contributing to the author's main or professed object. He did not profess to institute an express examination into the state of the House of Commons, but only entitled his pamphlet "A Trifling Mistake," &c.—The hon. member was prevented from continuing by cries of "Spoke, spoke!"Mr. Douglas Kinnaird
 observed, that he had been misconceived by his hon. relation who had just sat down. What he had said was, that he did not think it always expedient to pursue the same course, and that there might be cases in which the House might act incautiously in trusting to the Crown for directing a prosecution.Lord Nugent
1000 begged to say three words Hi explanation of the vote he meant to give. He should vote for the original motion. He concurred so far with his noble friend behind him, as to think that his majesty's ministers had criminally neglected their duty, in not instructing the attorney-general to prosecute other libels perhaps more atrocious. But that was no reason why he should not vote for the present motion, when he saw the privileges of the House so outrageously attacked in the face of the country. The hon. member who had last night mentioned this publication had ascribed it to a particular individual. He would not do so, but he would say that it bore internal proofs, in its style and mode of reasoning, that it proceeded from the pen of a person who was a worthy victim for the House to strike. The motion was not for committing to the custody of the sergeant at arms, or to Newgate. The spirit of the object was, after ascertaining from the printer who the author was, to direct the attorney-general to lay both the law and the facts before a jury of the country. He was not willing to give up the privileges of the Houses connected, as he believed them to be, with the rights and liberties of the people. These were not times in which those privileges ought to be surrendered or qualified. He was aware of the obloquy, and misrepresentation to which he should be exposed by his conduct on this occasion; but if he were not prepared to suffer obloquy and misrepresentation in the discharge of his
1000Lord Nugent
 rose, amidst continued calls of "question!" and symptoms of impatience. He said, he was sorry to differ from many hon. members as to the best mode of proceeding in this case. In the case of the complaint made last session, by the right hon. the president of the board of control against an individual for misrepresentation, the House passed a resolution declaratory of the offence, before they called the printer to the bar. He was aware that he was addressing an impatient House, and should therefore merely add, that he thought the course which the House seemed disposed to pursue was erroneous.Mr. Hume
10021001 said, that although he had been many years a member of that House, he was not well acquainted with privileges or precedents, but he was led by instinctive feelings to join in censuring what attacked the substance of dignity and authority in parliament. The passage now read appeared to him a gross and scandalous libel, not only against the privileges, but against the existence of the House. He had seldom been more surprised than when he heard an hon. member say that any person might doubt whether this passage was a libel or not. It was the nature of the moral faculty, as well as of our natural feeling, to doubt the existence of a weaker ingredient, when accustomed to a stronger ingredient. It might be so with the hon. member, who was perhaps so much accustomed to strong libels, that he doubted whether this was a libel. The hon. member had explained his meaning by saying, that it was only an assertion that fear restrained the people more than love. Mr. Hume, in one of his celebrated essays, had remarked, that "all government was founded on opinion, opinion of interest or opinion of right." It would have been absurd to suppose that Mr. Hume should have been called to the bar of the House for that expression. But all depended on the terms used, and the tendency of the language. If it were said, that the passage contained nothing but the truth, it must at least be admitted that the truth had been very boldly expressed. The expression was, that the members of that House might, on a certain supposition, be dragged out by the ears. He could not conceive a more plain and open incitement, couched in grosser language; he could imagine no words more likely to produce the effect of carrying the doctrine which they imported into execution. A disposition to insult the House was too easily infused, and if it was treated with mildness, would only gain strength and become inveterate. He had, indeed, heard of a story which represented
10021001Mr. Wilberforce
.—Does the hon. member wish the title of the publication, and the particular passages to which he has referred, to be read?The Speaker
 having moved the order of the day, the House proceeded to take into consideration the complaint, which upon Friday, was made to the House of a printed pamphlet, intituled, A "Trifling Mistake in Lord Erskine's recent Preface."Mr. Courtenay
 did not wish to give unnecessary trouble, but he apprehended that what had already occurred on a former day would impose upon the House the necessity of having the publisher brought to the bar: an order had been made for the attendance of Robert Stodart, and he felt it right, therefore, to move that he be examined, although unquestionably what had fallen from the hon. gentleman, afforded the House sufficient knowledge of the author of the libel.Mr. Courtenay
 observed, that after what had passed, it was undoubtedly not consistent with his view of the case to visit the printer or publisher of the libel with any punishment. It was the duty of the House to take notice of such a publication, and the gentleman who was the author of it had avowed himself. He would move, therefore, in the first instance, that Robert Stodart be discharged, and next, that Mr. John Cam Hobhouse be ordered to attend.Mr. Courtenay
1011 was desirous that every
1011Mr. Courtenay
10141013 lex terræ1012 thanked the chair for the information supplied. As it now appeared, from the highest authority, that after an avowal of the author, such as had been made, it was not necessary that the House should order his attendance; the course he had to pursue was extremely plain and simple. He would, therefore, advert very shortly to the nature of the offence that had been committed, and to the manner in which he conceived it ought to be visited. He hoped the view he had taken of the subject would meet with the general feeling and concurrence of the House. He had no difficulty in stating, that it had been a matter of very anxious consideration with him how to make up his mind as to the particular mode in which the House ought to punish an offence of this kind. He could assure the House, that he had consulted with his hon. friend opposite (Mr. Wynn), and after the fullest inquiry, he was persuaded, that the question would not be met properly if the House did not proceed to take the punishment into its own hands, by ordering the commitment of the
10141013 lex terræ1012Mr. Courtenay
 then observed, that some particular circumstances had been stated to him, that made it desirable at the present moment not to decide upon the ultimate place of punishment, whether it should or should not be Newgate. He apprehended that the proper motion would now be, that Mr. Hobhouse be committed to the custody of the serjeant-at-arms, and it could subsequently be determined whether it would be fit to send him to New-gate or elsewhere.Mr. Courtenay
 immediately rose and stated, that he had never been more surprised than by what he had just heard.— Unquestionably he had been prepared to make the ordinary and regular motion for the commitment of Mr. Hobhouse to Newgate; but an hon. friend of his and of Mr. Hobhouse (Mr. Ellice), had previously stated some circumstances which made him particularly wish that the previous and intermediate course, now reprobated, should be pursued for the convenience of the offender. In return for this anxiety to accommodate, he had been treated with the tirade just delivered, imputing to him an intention to aggravate the punishment: he was convinced that the House would acquit him of any such purpose [Hear!]. He was now left, therefore, without any alternative; he must make his first motion for commitment to Newgate; though if any amendment were offered for changing the place of confinement, he should be happy to acquiesce on the statement of sufficient grounds. He then moved, "That John Cam Hobhouse, esq., be for his said offence, committed to his majesty's gaol of Newgate."Mr. Courtenay
 could not help thinking that some difficulty might arise in point of regularity of proceeding; he did not see how the motion, that Mr. Hobhouse be sent to Newgate in the first instance, could be executed without a commitment to the custody of the sergeant-at-arms.— The only persons who could take him were the serjeant-at-arms or his deputy, who were the officers of the House. There were, undoubtedly, cases where the order of commitment to the serjeant-at-arms was not preceded by an order of commitment to Newgate, but then the party had been summoned to appear at the bar, and was actually in the possession of the House. Unless a previous motion for commitment to the Serjeant were made, he did not see how Mr. Hobhouse was to get to Newgate, unless, which was not to be expected, he should voluntarily go to the keeper of the prison, requiring to be put into a place of security. He therefore thought that the original motion was the proper one; but he did not on that ground apprehend that the necessary consequence would be that he should be brought to the bar. The course would be that at the next, or the next sitting but one, the serjeant at arms should report that he had taken Mr. Hobhouse into custody, and then would follow an order for his commitment to Newgate. Of this, repeated instances might be pointed out; but one of the most recent was that of general Clavering, who had been guilty of prevarication, and the serjeant was directed to take him into custody. The serjeant reported that he had obeyed the order, and a vote was passed immediately that he should be committed to Newgate.Mr. Wynn
 observed, that the gaoler could have no power to take a prisoner unless delivered with a proper warrant.— It appeared that the gentleman must go and deliver himself up. [No, no.]Sir C. Burrell
 continued, that he was happy to have been set right, and he would make but one further observation. An hon. gentleman had stated, that he had visited Newgate, and found that Mr. Hobhouse, if confined there, must be placed with common felons. Would the House, then, commit the party to a gaol where he must be exposed to such a situation? [Hear!] In common kindness therefore, time for further consideration ought to be allowed; and for this purpose he would move as an amendment, "That Mr. Hobhouse be taken into the custody of the serjeant-at-arms."Sir C. Burrell
1018 said, that this amendment exactly brought back the question to what he had himself suggested. He
1018Mr. Courtenay
 added, that his object merely was to afford the House time to deliberate as to the most proper place of confinement.Sir C. Burrell
 said, that if Mr. Hobhouse were first taken into the custody of the serjeant-at-arms, that object would be accomplished, and he did not conceive that it would be any intermediate punishment.Mr. Courtenay
 said, that the state of the gaol of Newgate was at present such that the House would not think it right to commit to it any gentleman of respectability for an offence of this kind. At present there were not less than 300 prisoners within the walls, and it was not possible to give Mr. Hobhouse a separate apartment. He had however no hesitation in saying, that accommodation might be afforded, although perhaps he was not exactly at liberty to say where, but in a situation which all the law-officers of the crown admitted was legally within the walls. Of course, time must be allowed to make the necessary arrangements, and at most, a day or two might be required for that purpose.Mr. Alderman Wood
 rose amidst cries of "Question," and proceeded to make some observations in support of the matter contained in the pamphlet, when he was interrupted bySir F. Burdett
 said, the plain and intelligible; mode was that which he wished to adopt —a mode that would enable him to express his opinion on the whole of the master under consideration. The present, as it appeared to him, was an unusually hard case. In the first place, he did not think the House had given, sufficient attention to the publication which they had been called on to vote a breach of their privileges. He had read the pamphlet since it had been taken notice of by the House, and, however gross the language might be—language which he certainly did not mean to defend—he denied that any such intention, as that which was imputed to him, existed in the mind of the writer, namely, the desire of exciting a strong popular feeling, which might break out into acts of force and violence against the members of that House. It was the opinion of the writer, and that opinion he had freely expressed, that this House did not possess legitimate authority; that it was not alone supported, as it should be, by the affection and respect of the people, but by means of practices the most corrupt and objectionable.Sir F. Burdett
 rose to order. He put it to the Speaker, whether the hon. baronet could regularly proceed in this course of argument? He apprehended that it was not competent to the hon. baronet to state his sentiments on the nature of the publication. He might have discussed that question when the resolution defining the nature of the publication was before the House; but that period having gone by, the hon. baronet was not now at liberty to address himself to that part of the question. The point immediately under consideration was the place of commitment to which the author of the publication was to be sent; and, in discussing that question, the hon. baronet could not go into a general statement of the nature of the libel.Lord Castlereagh
 said, he was going to prove that the House had no right to decide in this case. It was evident, however, that there was no great inclination to hear him. This was the justice administered by Rhadamanthus—or rather worse: for Rhadamanthus punished first, and heard afterwards; but the House awarded punishment, and would not hear at all [Order, order!] He objected entirely to the motion, which he did not the more approve of, because it had the sanction of the noble lord opposite. The punishment arising out of so strange and extraordinary a trial ought to be viewed with the most scrupulous jealousy, and the House ought to hear every thing in favour of the accused party. It was one very strong ground of extenuation, that other persons were suffered to go at large, and to commit with impunity breaches of the privileges of that House, without animadversion from any quarter whatsoever. In proof of this, he would read a passage from a newspaper which he held in his hand—a print connected with that part of the press which was more immediately under the control of government—which, he contended, presented a more unjust, a more mischievous, a more improper comment on the conduct of the members of that House, than any thing contained in the book which had been brought under their consideration. He held in his hand "The Morning Post" of Friday last, from which he would read an extract.Sir F. Burdett
1021 rose to order. He submitted whether it was not impossible, consistently with the usage of the House, to superadd, on one breach of privilege,
1021Mr. Wynn
 said, notwithstanding all that had fallen from the hon. and learned gentleman, he was not aware that he was out of order in the course he was pursuing. Considering different cases of this nature, it did appear to him that a very strong ground of extenuation was made out, when it was proved that impunity was extended to some, while punishment was awarded to others, for the like offence. He should be placed in a very awkward situation—his mouth would be completely stopped, if the House adopted the principle laid down by the hon. and learned gentleman. In that case, he should be placed in this predicament, that he could not read an extract from the paper to which he had alluded, because he did not mean to complain of any breach of privilege. Indeed, he held that the writing then under consideration was not a breach of the privilege of that House [Hear, hear!]. For the fair and necessary privileges and regulations of the House of Commons no man was more willing to stand up; but that which was complained of was a mere constructive breach of privilege. Interrupting the proceedings of that House, interfering with its officers, or preventing the execution of a process emanating from it—these he considered breaches of privilege; but the present was a wholly different question; He should now proceed to read an extract from "The Morning Post," which was couched in these terms:—"In the House of Commons last night, Mr. Bennett brought forward his promised-motion, ostensibly for an inquiry into the present state of the manufacturing districts, but really for the promotion of party and mischievous views."Sir F. Burdett
 rose to order. He submitted that it was impossible for the hon. baronet or any other gentleman, to be allowed to read a paper of that kind within the walls of the House of Commons.Mr. Bankes
 said, it was for the House to proceed according to its regular and established practice. He recollected, generally, the debate to which the hon. and learned member alluded, and, he believed the House decided not on any particular instance, such as the hon. baronet wished to introduce, but on the general notoriety of the fact, that libellous or disrespectful matter, treating that House with contempt, had been suffered to pass with impunity. If the hon. baronet pleased to take that line of argument, generally, he thought he had a right to do so. All that he and his learned friend objected to was the reading a paragraph out of a newspaper, the very first word of which constituted a breach of the privilege of that House. The hon. baronet could not do this unless he meant to found a complaint on it. The distinction was clear between proceeding in a general line of argument, and adverting to a particular paragraph, which, he repeated, could not be introduced except for the purpose of making a formal complaint.Mr. Bankes
 wished to know, whether it was not ordained amongst the first orders of that House that no member whatsoever should be at liberty to read any printed paper, except with the permission of the House, unless he meant to make a complaint? If that was not amongst the orders of the House, he had only to state that he had heard it so laid down, and acquiesced in, by very competent authorities many years ago.Mr. Wynn
 said, in answer to what had fallen from Mr. Brougham, that the material difference between the proceeding adopted by him, and that pursued by the hon. baronet, appeared to be, that, though he (Mr. Wortley) did not found on the publication he quoted a complaint of a breach of the privileges of the House; be animadverted on it as an improper publication; whilst the hon. baronet stated as a reason for his quotation, that though the publication before the House was a libel, he could produce still greater libels which had not been punished. This, was contrary to the practice of the House.Mr. Stuart Worthy
 said, he thought it was his duty to take the line he had done, although unsuccessfully. He perceived it was very useless to oppose the motion then before the House. He would not, therefore, trouble them farther on this occasion; but when at a future time the question came before them, whether this gentleman should or should not be committed to Newgate, he would then state his opinion at length.Sir F. Burdett
10301029 said, it had not originally been his intention to address the House upon this subject, but as he was about to vote for this measure, and as he never gave a vote with so much reluctance, he was desirous of offering a few words in explanation. He was sure that it must be obvious to many honourable members, that he was not likely to entertain an opinion upon any great public question different from that of his honourable friends near him without painful
10301029Lord Archibald Hamilton
1033for they were a party accused before the public.10321031 said, he could not, with the noble lord who had just sat down, consider it to be his duty to support the bill before the House. His noble friend, no doubt, acted from the best motives; it was impossible from his high character to doubt the rectitude of his intention; but having taken quite a different view of the question, he had no hesitation in opposing the third reading of this obnoxious bill, with the intention, should he fail in preventing this, of moving the clause as to the exemption, of Ireland.—This bill he considered as forming the main pillar of that code of pains, penalties, and coercion, which the noble secretary for foreign affairs and his colleagues now introduced, in direct hostility to the whole system of the British constitution, though in direct accordance with the plan formed by ministers for a long series of years, which had in view the destruction of the liberties of mankind. It was in order to register his abhorrence of this system of tyranny, that he was urged to rise on the present occasion. The hostile disposition of the noble lord and his colleagues to the first principles of freedom had been amply demonstrated in other countries, and what they had at-
1033for they were a party accused before the public.10321031Mr. Hutchinson
1042 expressed himself anxious to offer a few observations in answer to the speech which his hon. friend had made—a speech which, from the tone he assumed, was calculated to convey very wrong impressions to Ireland. — Many persons in that country, who, from that speech would think themselves aggrieved, would not, but for such a statement, be aware of the existence of the measure. If hon. members would allow him to explain himself further, they would See no reason for their cheers; as he meant to state, that large masses in Ireland, but for the warning in that speech, would have perhaps remained ignorant of the existence of the measure, because it was probable that there would be no reason in that country for its practical operation. He had never known but one instance of a public meeting in that country which was not held within some house, and which was not therefore exempt from the provisions of this measure. The one to which he alluded was an imitation of the meeting in Spa-fields, but it led to nothing. With respect to the claims of the Catholics, though he differed from the hon. gentleman as to the propriety of conceding them, he was as anxious as he could be to allow a full and fair opportunity of petitioning the legislature on that subject. But he asked his hon. friend, whether he ever heard of any of those meetings of Roman Catholics out of doors? In Dublin, where the aggregate Roman Catholic meetings were held, they were always in large rooms, capable of holding thousands of persons; and, in other parts of Ireland, they generally took place in chapels. He wished it, then, to be understood, that the present bill would have no practical effect against meetings in Ireland. But it was asked, "Why extend this bill to Ireland? Where is its necessity?" To this he answered, that the House had already decided that it should be of general operation; and if Ireland were exempted from it on the
1042Mr. Leslie Foster
104810471046104510441043 trusted the House would indulge him for a short time, while he expressed his sentiments on the measure then before them. He did not intend to have occupied their attention at this stage of the debate, nor should, he have offered himself, but for the very pointed manner in which he had been alluded to by his hon. and learned friend who had spoken last but one. He held it to be rather unusual to call particularly upon any member for his opinion upon what was passing before the House, and perhaps he might, with a full sense of duty, decline to comply with the demand; but he confessed he had so much of the Irishman in him as not to refuse the challenge. He thanked his hon. and learned friend for the compliments which he had paid, him in the course of his speech; but he conceived the allusion made to his character, as affected by the vote which he had given or might give on this subject, was wholly uncalled for. He must say that he did not think that character was likely to sustain any injury or diminution from the course of conduct, which he had felt it his duty in that House to follow. He thought that his character could never be implicated by the conscientious expression of a conscientious opinion. His hon. and learned friend in what he had
104810471046104510441043Mr. Plunkett
105110501049 declared, that after the observations which had fallen from his right hon. and learned friend, he could not avoid offering a few remarks. Some of the opinions of his right hon. and learned friend had astonished him, and he was the more surprised at hearing them from such a quarter. He understood his learned friend to argue, that because in the present day an intensity of light was thrown upon all subjects, therefore the progress of knowledge was to be stopped. If his right hon. and learned friend had not meant this, his words could convey no meaning at all. His right hon. and learned friend had contended, that because knowledge was so general, it should be restricted. Why, if that argument had always been in force, what would have become of the exertions of a Luther and a Calvin, who had contributed to take from our religion that veil of error in which it had so long been hid? He should be glad to know how knowledge was improved or increased but by slow steps. His right hon. and learned friend had advanced one proposition which; utterly astonished him. It was, that in the last 20 or 30 years, we had improved more in knowledge than in some centuries preceding. What! would his right honourable and learned friend say, that the accumulated wisdom of six or seven centuries; that the Magna Charta, the bill of rights, the Habeas Corpus, and other measures, securing the liberty of the subject, were outweighed in their importance by the increased knowledge of the last 20 or 30 years? Surely his right hon. and learned friend must have lost sight of those great bulwarks of our liberty, when he used such an argument. He would admit that there were very many, who (whether their
105110501049Lord Milton
Progeniem vitiosiorem."Nos nequiores, mox daturosÆtas parentum, pejor avis, tulit"Damnosa quid non imminuet dies?10541053†1052 allowed, that if he entertained an opinion of the state of the country similar to that expressed by those who opposed the measure, if he could by any course of reasoning come to the conclusion at which the noble lord who had just sat down had arrived—if he thought the existing disaffection were of recent origin—if he thought that by some sudden and unaccountable accident, the country was exposed to an ebullition of popular feeling—if he thought that the attempts to disturb the tranquillity of the country had no defined object—if he thought that that object was not pursued with systematic and unremitting activity, he should then perhaps be of opinion that the proposed measures ought not to be adopted. Although no man was more slow than himself to see any danger in an ebullition of popular feeling and prejudice, or to interfere with it, yet he was convinced that the country was not at present in a state of mere ebullition. There were not many hon. gentlemen present who recollected the events which took place at the commencement of the French Revolution. But they were matter of history; and it was impossible for any one who was duly informed respecting them, to say, that the reception which the mischievous doctrines promulgated at that time, met in England, was fostered by distress; for there never was a time when trade was more flourishing, or the general prosperity more assured. That, however, was the period when the pestilent doctrines by which we had ever since been more or less infected, were first sown in this happy country. A noble lord opposite had contended, that that was a time of greater danger than the present. To him the fact appeared precisely the reverse.—The evil commenced at the beginning of the French Revolution. It had since made great progress. It had assumed by turns every shade and disguise; and now its gigantic form threaten-
Progeniem vitiosiorem."Nos nequiores, mox daturosÆtas parentum, pejor avis, tulit"Damnosa quid non imminuet dies?10541053†1052Mr. Robinson
in presenti.in futuro1056prima facie1055 said, he should not address himself to those who thought that the existing evil originated in the French revolution, and had proceeded until it had arrived at its present point, because he was not aware of any argument which could effect a change in such an opinion. He acknowledged that by allowing all assemblies to take place under cover, a very considerable part of the sting had been, taken out of the bill; but on that point he wished to make one observation. He was aware that the marginal notes of a bill were not to be considered as an accurate index of the bill itself; he could not, however, help adverting to the marginal note referring to the clause of exception which he had noticed. It was as follows: —" Clause not to extend to any meeting held in a private room." He was at a loss to know on what authority that expression had been introduced, but he protested against parliament being concluded by it. Many of the clauses might be excluded; from the bill without interfering with its operations. He alluded particularly to the clause which limited its duration to five years. This was a period which he thought ought not to be insisted upon, as, if that were permitted, at the end of five years the measure would no doubt be renewed as a matter of course. His objection in general to the bill, however, was founded upon the same grounds on which he objected to the whole system of measures which had been brought in, namely, that they had been introduced to the notice of the House, without any inquiry whatever. The House had taken for granted, that all that had been stated was true, without one inquiry as to the propriety of the evidence on which those
in presenti.in futuro1056prima facie1055Mr. W. Smith
 felt himself called upon to state the reasons which induced him to support his majesty's government in the present measure; and these were founded on a conviction, that the dangers which existed demanded the exercise of extraordinary powers. In coming to this conclusion he disclaimed any intention unnecessarily to infringe on the rights and liberties of the people; nothing was farther from his principles, or those feelings of independence which he hoped he should always maintain. If he thought the present bill went unjustly to infringe on the liberties of the people he trusted that no motive would induce him to give it his consent. He, however, could not see that it affected those constitutional liberties which the people had a right to enjoy. It did not prevent them from meeting, as they had a right to do, by law: an individual who had received the common education of a gentleman, knew that there never was a period when the people could meet to express their sentiments on public affairs without being under some restrictions. Those now to be imposed were not unjustly severe, and in his opinion they did not trench on those privileges secured to the people at the time of the Revolution.Mr. Long Wellesley
105910581057 expressed a hope, that the House would indulge him for a few moments while he explained the motive on which he founded his objection to these bills. It was because, taking the whole of the statements which had been given by the hon. gentleman on all sides of the House to be strictly true, he thought that these bills went further than the evils complained of demanded. The evils were, according to his notion, that a great number of persons assembled together with flags and with military parade, and that these persons were inflamed by the speeches of itinerant orators, who went about from place to place inculcating their pernicious doctrines. Now, allowing these evils to exist in certain
105910581057Mr. Williams
10621061| |1060 said, that hon. gentle men must feel that party attachments would be allowed on some occasions to influence the discussion of state questions; but he deprecated their influence in this instance, not merely with reference to the awful situation of the country, but also with reference to these particular measures, which were proposed by his majesty's ministers, for the purpose of averting the dangers by which it was threatened, and of opposing the progress of revolutionary doctrines. Without further preface, he must for his own part fairly confess, that from all the information he had been able to glean from the papers on the table, and from all he had been able to gather from persons the best informed upon the subject, the constitution, in his opinion (however reluctantly he came to that conclusion), would be seriously endangered, unless the spirit of these seditious meetings were speedily put down by the strong arm of the law, aided by military interference. Under all these circumstances of the case, he must give this bill his support; but with regard to the character of the measure, it had been already so amply discussed, that he did not deem it necessary to detain the House upon the subject. He would here ask, what was the evil complained of by the country? What was it, but the existing state of the country? What remedy then must be applied? What, but the aid of physical, but authorized, force? They would be told by some of those who advocated the cause of reform, that such a system of measures was incompatible with their wishes. These gentlemen would assert, that their object was, in one word, the constitution, the whole constitution, and nothing but the constitution; and they would then proceed to say what their views of that constitution were. Why, they would assert that annual parliaments and Universal suffrage formed a most essential
10621061| |1060Lord Morpeth
1068106710661065l.l.l.10641063 acknowledged that he was far from considering that in the present state of the country, some measure was not necessary, calculated to produce a salutary impression upon the, disturbed districts of the country, and to lay the spirit by which they had been agitated. For his own part, no man thought some such proceeding more needful than himself; and if he considered that the one before them was a measure of that description, no man would more cordially support it. But it was because he had a serious and solemn conviction, that a directly contrary effect would be produced by it, that he should think it his duty to oppose it, and to lay before the House his reasons for doing so. It appeared to many, that the state of the country was such as imperatively to call for measures which might be effectual to put down the large meetings which had recently been so frequent. No one would more readily concur in the general impolicy and impropriety of such large assemblies. He was by no means disposed to think that a meeting of the whole people of England upon Salisbury plain would be either advisable or convenient for the discussion of grievances. He was very ready to admit, that a public meeting, convened under a state of circumstances, such as affected the manufacturing districts of the country, might call for a measure of restriction; but they had been told that it was not there alone that the measure was necessary; and indeed those districts did not seem to be in particular affected by the bill before the House, or by any of the measures proposed by his majesty's ministers. He should have been dis-
1068106710661065l.l.l.10641063Mr. Scarlett
10701069 supposed that his hon. and learned friend had not read the bill before the House with the attention which he generally conferred upon subjects of this nature, from the vague and incorrect ideas which he had formed regarding it. For his own part ha should not have arisen at so late an hour in the evening, and after all that had been previously said upon this subject, had he not felt it necessary to say a few words in reply to his hon. and learned friend who had just sat down. His hon. and learned friend had asserted, that public meetings were not dangerous in themselves, but only indicative of the existence of danger; and had deduced as a corollary from that proposition, that, as far as public meetings were concerned, no legitimate measures were necessary. He did not wish to misrepresent his hon. and learned friend, but he certainly, understood that to be the sum of his observation. His hon. and learned friend had said that public meetings were not dangerous. If that were the case, parliament had been wasting their time during all their late legislation, as that legislation went principally to prevent the recurrence of meetings accompanied with danger, such as had been seen at Manchester and elsewhere. For that purpose this bill with all its various details had been formed; and to that bill and its details his hon. and learned friend had made many objections. In his objections to the details, his hon. and learned friend had been particularly unfortunate; his first objection was, that "all meetings were made to depend upon the will of a single magistrate, who might arrest at them any individual whom he found expressing sentiments hostile to his own,"
10701069She Attorney General
 explained, and maintained that he was fully borne out in the assertion, that a single magistrate had it in his power to disperse any meeting by the words of the clause, which enable a justice to take any person into custody "who shall wilfully and advisedly make any proposition, or hold any discourse for the purpose of inciting or stirring up the people to hatred or contempt of the person of his majesty, his heirs or successors, or the government and constitution of this realm as by law established." Now the words "inciting or stirring up to contempt of the person of his majesty" were none of the clearest: he had in the course of his professional practice known a man of the name of Lloyd to have been convicted of inciting the people to hatred of his majesty, who had merely written on the walls of the town in which he lived, and with whose corporation he had quarrelled, the words, "Damn all corporations." Now our lord the king being a corporation of himself, was included in this sweeping execration; and it was argued, that these words "Damn all corporations," were against his peace and dignity. The result of the conviction was, that the man was imprisoned for two years in Lancaster-castle. On similar grounds it was to be feared that magistrates would act in the execution before the House.Mr. Scarlett
1071 maintained, that he had replied to the arguments of his
1071The Attorney General
1072 begged leave to remind his hon. and learned friend, that he had stated the same objection in the committee, and that no satisfactory answer had been given to it up to that moment. The strong objection to the bill in his mind was, that it authorized a single magistrate to disperse any county meeting at his own discretion, whether it had been called by the lieutenant, the sheriff or any other legal authority. Such was the principle that pervaded all the enactments of the Bill. The answer attempted by his hon. and learned friend (the Solicitor-general) was, that the magistrate had not the power to dissolve the meeting immediately, but after an intermediate process. But had not the magistrate the power to order any person into custody who had used expressions which would justify him, in his own opinion; and who was the judge as to the propriety of his interference? not the sheriff, but the single magistrate himself. The functions of the sheriff were therefore destroyed by the bill. He also strongly opposed the clause indemnifying magistrates for any deaths which might ensue from the dispersion of meetings. The clause to which he alluded authorized magistrates to disperse meetings, and to hurt, maim, and kill those who remained after the proclamation, and this was done, not by a direct enactment, but by implication. It had been said that the same was done in the Riot act. It was no such thing. The power of dispersing a crowd in the Riot act was not given to the magistrate by implication, but in so many express words and sentences: nor was the power of inflicting the other penalties allowed to them till after opposition was made to the attempt to disperse. The clause in question was nothing better than a fraud upon the House, and was introduced to legalize acts of violence. There was no such law at present in existence; for if there had been any such law, there would have been no occasion for any magistrates to have complained (as the papers on the table showed that some magistrates had complained) of a want of power wherewith to put down the evils which surrounded them. "But they had the power of dispersing a meeting in their commission of peace.'' This was not the fact; the commission gave them
1072Mr. Denman
1073 stated, that the Irish members had come over to defend the constitution of the country. He acknowledged that he was in some degree an alarmist, and conceived that great danger would ensue to the constitution of England and Ireland if the present measures did not pass. It night be taken as a proof of his sincerity, that he was ready to bear any share of unpopularity which the course he took might excite, and he knew that in England it would be attended with no popularity—but he was convinced that he should earn great popularity in the county which he
1073Mr. R. Martin
1074 expressed his surprise at some observations that had fallen from his hon. and learned friend who had spoken last but one. He would ask, upon what ground his hon. and learned friend had asserted that his majesty's government had held a consultation on the subject of instituting a censorship of the press? This was a charge which ought surely not to have been made upon light grounds. He had charged him with misquoting the act of Henry 7th, and had suggested the act of Henry 4th as the only one applicable to the power of magistrates. But the act of Henry 7th gave the magistrates the same power over unlawful assemblies as over riots. There was a statute of Henry 4th, he would admit, upon the same subject, which was confirmed by that of Henry 7th, so that he maintained his quotation was correct. As to the power of dispersion, it was given in the present bill precisely in the same terms as in the Riot act. His hon. and learned friend had said, that until the clause indemnifying justices in cases of killing and maiming, occurred, there was nothing in the bill that could lead them to suspect it of containing the power of dispersion—but did his hon. and learned friend forget the proclamation, which was copied to the very words from the Riot act, and which called upon the people to disperse on pain of being subjected to the penalties of the bill? "Our sovereign lord the king chargeth and commandeth all persons here assembled immediately to disperse themselves, and peaceably to depart to their habitations, or to their lawful business.'' Yet, with this proclamation before him, his hon. and learned friend said, that there was not a word about dispersing till he came to this clause. A si-
1074The Solicitor General
 repeated his assertion, that none of the authorities referred to by his hon. and learned friend, allowed the magistrate to use direct force for the dispersion of meetings.Mr. Denman
10761075 begged leave to recall the attention of the House to the consideration of the general principle of the bill. At the same time it could not be a matter of wonder, that the House, in discussing the principle of this measure, should have deviated into the consideration of particular clauses, when it was recollected that the bill in its progress through the several stages had undergone so many changes; when it was recollected that it had been twice recommitted; that its details had occupied the House two whole nights; and that it had been altered from what it was originally intended to be. In the course of the debate, he had been surprised to find that it was not intended by all the advocates of the bill to support it on the principle originally laid down by the noble lord, that it was net an infraction of the constitution; for the right hon. the president of the board of trade, seemed to think that it was an infraction of the constitution. The right hon. gentleman, sitting there as one of his majesty's ministers, had told the House that the bill was an infraction of the constitution, and that it was a necessary measure to protect the country against the baneful effect of those reforming princi-
10761075Lord Folkestone
1077** said, he represented a very populous and a very loyal county, and he should ill justify the confidence;
1077**Mr. Honeywood
1078 multis utile bellum'Hinc concussa fides et multis utile bellum.''Hinc usura vorax, rapidumque in tempore fœnus. supported the bill. He thought the discontent which was at present so prevalent, arose in a great measure from distress; but to prove that it was not the less dangerous on that account, he quoted the following passage from Bacon:—" Lucan noteth well the state of Rome before the civil war—
1078 multis utile bellum'Hinc concussa fides et multis utile bellum.''Hinc usura vorax, rapidumque in tempore fœnus.Mr. G. Bankes
108110801079 said, that in the last stage of this important measure he wished to be allowed to offer a few words to the House. He was the more anxious to obtain that permission, because he was under the painful necessity of differing from many of those for whom he felt the most sincere respect and esteem. But occasions might occur, when the feelings of personal friendship and of party attachment might be allowed to bend to a strong and imperious sense of public duty. Such an occasion was the present, whether viewed with regard to the awful and critical state of the country, or considered with reference to the nature of those measures which were proposed to counteract the evils and avert the dangers of our situation: for that gentleman must have viewed the measure that was now proposed through a very different medium from that in which he had been constrained to see it, if he considered either its adoption or its rejection as an unmixed or unbalanced good. But called upon to form his opinion from the information submitted to the House, from the intelligence that he had obtained from other sources, from the general notoriety that prevailed, he was led irresistibly, however reluctantly, to the conclusion that the meetings which had lately disgraced and distracted the manufacturing districts in the northern parts of the country, if not suppressed by the strong arm of new legislative enactments, must be put down by the much more to be dreaded alternative, the interposition and exercise of military force. With this conviction upon his mind, though disapproving of some of the clauses of the bill, and wishing that its duration had been confined to a shorter period he must give his support to the present measure.—Into the nature, character, and complexion of the meetings that had lately occurred he would not now inquire, as that part of the subject had been completely analyzed by preceding speakers; but he might inquire into the grievance that was the general object of complaint; what was it but the existing constitution of this country? and what are the means by which this grievance is proposed to be removed? terror and intimidation resulting from the display of physical and organized force. For what are the words inserted in reso-
108110801079Lord Morpeth
1083 was speaking. He said, that if the present measures were calculated to produce the effect proposed, there was not a man in the House who would support them more readily than himself. But, upon the most serious consideration, he was convinced they would have a contrary effect, and therefore it was that he felt bound to oppose them. He did not pretend to deny that the state of the country was such as to call for the enactment of some legislative measures—that the state of the manufacturing districts did not call for the interposition of government. But he felt convinced that the measures proposed by ministers were not calculated to remedy the existing evils. Many hon. members had expressed their reluctance to support these measures; and he was glad to hear them say so, as it was an admission that they were a restraint upon the liberties of the people. Buthow did this admission agree with the statements of a right hon. gentleman (Mr. Plunkett), that these bills were brought forward in the spirit of the constitution [Hear, hear!]? Where did the constitution say that meetings were to be limited to 10,000 or to 30,000 persons? Did the operation of the present measures go to prevent large meetings in counties? No: the present measures went to suppress meetings not contemplated by the proposers of them. If, then, they were unnecessarily trenching on the people's rights, it was not yet too late to retread their steps; it was not too late to arouse themselves from the unfounded panic and alarm which had been spread abroad. It was urged, that the meetings themselves were not so much to be dreaded, but that they were an indication of public feeling. If these meetings were to be put down, then one indication of public feeling was put an end to. The hon. and learned member, after some farther observations, asked, what was to prevent any magistrate from coming in and dispersing one of these meetings tolerated under the act? If such meeting were to remain beyond the quarter of an hour allowed to strangers to withdraw, or if the parishioners were to remain half an hour beyond the order to disperse, then the whole of those who remain were to be accused of felony. Suppose, for instance, that a magistrate were to send a volunteer, he would not use the harsh term a spy; suppose such a person were to be sent into a meeting, would not this at once destroy the liberty of meeting
1083Mr. Scarlett
 observed, that his hon. and learned friend had argued that public meetings were dangerous, but yet that they ought not to be suppressed by legislative measures [No, no!]. This was what he understood his hon. and learned friend to have said. The hon. and learned member went on to defend the measure. The magistrates were vested with the power of dispersing the meeting if strangers refused to withdraw. The magistrates were, however, responsible for the exercise of this power. They could not disperse the meeting unless, as under the provisions of the Riot act where there was a riot [Hear! from the Opposition]. Gentlemen might cheer, but he maintained that the proposed measure provided as fully against abuse as the Riot act did, or could do. He believed that this was not an irreligious age, and that if religion was attacked by the disaffected, it was because they conceived it a main pillar of government.The Attorney General
 on his legs, proposing a clause relative to the admission of reporters to public meetings. It went to authorize the attendance of reporters to newspapers at public meetings, although strangers to the place, on their sending in their name to the magistrate twenty-four hours before the meeting.Mr. J. Wharton
 objected to the introduction of reporters as a distinct body recognized by the legislature and invested with particular privileges. If strangers to the county, parish, or district, the inhabitants of which respectively composed the meeting, he saw no reason for considering them in any other light than strangers by any clause in the bill. The magistrates might grant them facilities of admission if they saw no objection. It was true, as had been stated by an hon. member, that the reports of the proceedings of public meetings in the public journals had sometimes warned the country of its danger; but it was at the same time not to be denied, that the danger had often been increased by alarming and fallacious reports. He was unwilling to allow this class of persons any rights by this act which they did not previously possess; and thus to give a pretence for the admission of strangers.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that the number might be limited to three or four, and thus a part of the noble lord's objections might be obviated; but the noble lord objected to the principle of admitting reporters altogether [No, no!].Mr. Tierney
1085 said, he merely ob-
1085Lord Castlereagh
 did not see how a magistrate, without some authority in the act, could authorize the attendance of strangers.Mr. Tierney
 said, the magistrates could introduce their own officers and assistants, though strangers, and if they chose they might bring in the reporters among them.Lord Castlereagh
 said, the reason which the noble lord had given for the exclusion of reporters was, in his opinion, the strongest ground for their admission. The noble lord had stated, that fallacious reports had been propagated, and produced danger. Now, as some reports must always go abroad, would it not be better to admit reporters from respectable newspapers, who were men of education, who had characters at stake, and would be careful to avoid misrepresentation, than allow statements to get into circulation through the medium of individuals less qualified?Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, that the magistrate could not connive at reporters when strangers were ordered to withdraw.Mr. J. P. Grant
 contended, that by the bill, the reporter by attending a meeting would incur the penalties of a stranger, which was fine and imprisonment, nor could the magistrate protect him against the informer who would share the fine. He would propose a clause obviating the objection to the clause under discussion, which gave a right to attend, while it at the same time protected the reporters from the penalties attaching on other strangers. He would propose to give the magistrates a power to refuse or grant admission to reporters at their discretion. The noble lord had not brought forward the clause which he had given hopes to expect on a former night; and therefore he (Mr. H.) felt it his duty to propose one. The hon. member was proceeding, when Mr. Hume
1086custos rotulorum, then moved that the following clause be brought up:—" Provided also, and be it enacted, that it shall be lawful for the lord-lieutenant, governor, or 1086custos rotulorum,Mr. Hume
108910881087 said, that he did not wish at so late an hour, and after so protracted a debate, to detain the House by going at any length into argument in support of the clause to exempt Ireland from the operation of the bill. He had already troubled them at the opening of the debate on that night with some of the many observations which might be adduced to prove how entirely unnecessary, and totally inapplicable this particular bill, and the whole of the noblelord's measures of coercion and penalty, were to that country, in reference to its present avowed state of tranquillity and submission to the law. He had already shown that there was a total and absolute difference in the relative situation of the two countries (Great Britain and Ireland) at this moment. That not one of the causes assigned by the noble lord for introducing these bills, nor by any member who supported them, had been, or could be, stated as existing in Ireland, for whose peaceable state the noble lord and the secretary for Ireland had themselves voluntarily vouched. He had repeatedly challenged ministers and the members for Ireland who supported them, to contradict him if in error, and to state boldly why they were disposed to inflict these bills on that unoffending and much-sinned-against country. They had not answered that challenge, they could not. The right hon. gentleman, member for the university of Dublin, had, indeed, replied to that appeal, by stating some doctrines better calculated for the divan of Constantinople, or for the kingdom of Morocco, than for the enlightened wisdom of the parliament of this empire. He reminded the House of the temperate manner in which he had made his appeal to that gentleman, and he desired them to contrast it with the heat and peevishness with which he had been answered, with a want of patience, he must say, but little creditable to a gentleman whose talents and learning pointed him out as
108910881087Mr. Hutchinson
 assured the hon. and gallant general, for so he believed, without meaning to deny his learning, he must call him [a laugh], that he did not feel his temper at all ruffled. The hon. and gallant member quarrelled with the observations he had made to the House; but the hon. and gallant member should recollect, that he had been reluctantly compelled to address the House in consequence of an appeal from the hon. and gallant member. But the hon. and gallant member complained, that his argument was bad. If it was so, he assured the hon. and gallant member it was not intentionally so. He was called upon to say, why the Bill should extend to Ireland, when Ireland was not disturbed? Why, many English members for counties perfectly tranquil, voted for the extension of the Bill to the whole kingdom,—and with reason. A system of violence and intimidation was now pursued, which, though his country was not deemed particularly timid, would have its effect there also. It was like the stone thrown into the water—circle succeeded circle; every new proselyte added to its power, every one who was terrified became the instrument of intimidation; if it went on, he knew not where it would end. He regretted the less the extension of the bill to Ireland, because all legitimate meetings there, being generally held in rooms, would not be affected by the billMr. Plunkett
 contended for the necessity of including Ireland in the operation of this bill, for the purpose of more effectually ensuring the stability of both countries.Mr. R. Martin
 wished to know on what principle it was, that if, in 1817, when the danger was greater than it was now, Ireland was excluded, while now, with no other difference than that she was more tranquil, the bill was to be extended thither? She was then open to all the mischiefs which were now held forth, and the additional danger of Spenceanism, which was no longer talked of.Mr. Tierney
1090 denied that the danger was greater in 1817 than it now was. It was now more systematic and dangerous. The measures were of a description to show that vigilance and permanent measures were necessary to suppress it. The extension to Ireland served to show the measures to be permanent and general.
1090Lord Castlereagh
 said, it was a somewhat whimsical mode of arguing in the noble lord, when the necessity for strong measures was questioned, to hold up their severity as a proof of their necessity. In 1817, according to him, they had only the suspension of the Habeas Corpus—a common rod; now, said he, we have a whip of scorpions. The noble lord had forgotten that at the former period of alarm, the danger was deemed to be as great as at the present moment; so it was nearly in 1812; so it was in two or three cases during the war. If any gentleman would look into the reports of 1817, and measure the danger by the assertions to be found there, he would rest his claim to his vote in his declaration, whether the dangers were not greater then than now? There was then a central committee in London, directing an organized system of disaffection throughout the country; the Tower was summoned; magazines were collected; bullets provided, though as it afterwards turned out, in the foot of an old stocking. The bridges were to be blown up, and the soldiers to be smoked in their barracks. He was mixing up, perhaps, the detection with the assertions; but on the comparison of the present dangers with those described in three reports, he would rest his case. As to Ireland, he could not do better than borrow from his right hon. friend the remarks he had on former occasions applied to that country It was a most ungracious act to that country to declare her suspected before there was a ground for suspicion; to hasten to declare her guilty, or about to become guilty, though there was not the shadow of a charge against her. As in private life there was no more certain way to make a man unworthy of trust, than to distrust him when there was no need, so he feared it would be found with Ireland. This was not the way to regain those who were lost, or to retain those who were; well affected.Mr. Brougham
 said, as it appeared that the sense of the House was against his amendment, he was unwilling to press it. [Cries of" No, no."]Sir C. Burrell
1027 rose to present a petition against the coercive measures now in progress through parliament, from the inhabitant householders of the borough of Southwark. It was signed by 900 individuals out of 6,000, and would have received many more signatures if a longer time had been allowed. Indeed, many persons applied to
1027Mr. C. Calvert
1016 observed, that before he came down to the House he had seen Mr. Hobhouse, who was anxious to make a frank avowal that he was the author of the pamphlet, both to save the time of the House and to prevent the punishment of any other person but himself. Knowing pretty accurately what the consequences of such an acknowledgment would be, he had felt it his duty, feeling a very warm friendship for Mr. Hobhouse, to inquire into the state of the place where it was most likely it would be ordered that the offender should be confined, and he found
1016Mr. Ellice
 said, that Mr. Hobhouse was not in town at the present moment; he was in the country with his father, who was ill, but he would readily attend if an order were made out for that purpose: he would be able to attend tomorrow.Mr. Ellice
 immediately rose, and said, that in order to save the time of the House, and that no unmerited punishment might fall upon the publisher of the pamphlet in question, he had been instructed by its author to avow his name, and to add, that he would readily obey any order of the House requiring his attendance. The author was a particular friend of his, and his name was John Cam Hobhouse.Mr. Ellice
 wished the hon. member just to state the purpose he had in view in requiring the attendance of Mr. Hobhouse.Mr. Tierney
 added, in explanation, that he found it difficult to conceive how any other man but the hon. member opposite, and the hon. gentleman who had made the suggestion, could think that it would be Mr. Hobhouse's wish to be taken into custody forthwith, that he might thus be exposed to two sorts of punishment.—. He was not to be blamed for supposing that it must be the wish of the party accused that the ordinary course should be adopted, though if Mr. Hobhouse really was desirous of being taken into the custody of the sergeant-at-arms, he could have no possible objection.Mr. Brougham
1015 said, that before the question was put, he wished to be informed of the necessity under the circumstances for the previous and intermediate punishment. The hon. gentleman was no doubt aware of the consequences of such a proceeding, namely, that the individual must be brought to the bar, besides being exposed to the inconvenience of having heavy fees to pay. At any rate, the circumstances mentioned by his hon. friend (Mr. Ellice) would be enough to warrant the House in sending Mr. Hobhouse to Newgate to-morrow, or to whatever other place of confinement the House might think expedient. It had been stated by the hon. member for Coventry, that the individual in question had left town to perform an office of filial piety—to visit his father, who who was in a dangerous state of health, as it was of consequence that he should see him before he submitted to the punishment the House might determine to inflict. He did not mean to say any thing against the mode of proceeding recommended; on the contrary, it was the only way in which the House could properly proceed on a question of this kind [Hear, hear!]. For one, he should always protest against that anomalous process of sending a question of parliamentary privilege to be tried by any other court than itself [Hear, hear!]. He was decidedly in favour of the more immediate and direct course; and however grave the offence might be, the House he was sure would not inflict a double punishment, or at-
1015Mr. Brougham
1023 said, they all knew that no individual bowed to the sentiments delivered from the chair with greater reverence, on this and every other important and delicate question, than he did. He could not, however, so far abdicate his functions, as a member of that House, as not to throw out what occurred to him, on this occasion, before that decision was pronounced, which, coming from the chair, would of course be final. He meant no disrespect when he said, that, in his opinion, the hon. and learned gentleman had been a little hasty in forming his judgment on this question. It had always been allowed to introduce the notoriety of publications of this nature as a proper topic to be advanced in extenuation of punishment. As a proof of this, he called on the House to look to the case of Mr. Reeves; but more particularly to examine the view which Mr. Pitt took of another breach of privilege, which was one of the latest that occurred before the present administration came into power. It would be found, he believed, that the printer of a newspaper called "The True Briton" was brought to the bar of the House, for publishing reflections on the impeachment of lord Melville. The notoriety of the fact, that many observations of a similar kind had been published with impunity, was justly viewed by the House as matter of extenuation, and the printer was dismissed with a reprimand. If there was any impropriety in reading the passage to which the hon. baronet adverted, there was an equal impropriety in reading the pamphlet which had been complained of. Then, why did they not, on a former night, stop the hon. member for Yorkshire, when he read the pamphlet, without meaning to found any motion on it? He asked this, because there was no rule with respect to a newspaper that would not apply with equal force to a pamphlet. The hon. member for Yorkshire read a pamphlet without molestation. No one called him to order; no one exclaimed, "Down with your pamphlet?" and it was not till the reading was over, till the
1023Mr. Brougham
quantum1020 said, it was now undoubtedly too late for his hon. friend to
quantum1020Mr. Brougham
, although he would be the last man to propose any aggravation of punishment, yet having attended when persons had been committed for similar offences, he saw no reason why the House should be more lenient or considerate of the individual now before it, unless it was because he was infinitely richer or better informed. If the House proceeded in the manner now suggested with Mr. Hobhouse, it might be imputed that it was afraid to deal with him as it had dealt with others. If the prison of Newgate was in the condition represented, was not that a reason for not sending thither other persons who had, notwithstanding, been committed to that prison? If Mr. Hobhouse, after having been confined there, should complain that his health was injured by the mode and place of imprisonment, that application ought to receive attention. He would infinitely rather adopt a resolution that the attorney-general should be directed to prosecute, than, in times like the present, proceed in the -manner recommended, and for such unsatisfactory reasons as had been alleged.Mr. R. Martin
 interposed, and again explained what he had before stated regarding the issue of his two warrants. The warrants were entrusted to the serjeant-at-arms, as the officer of the House, and on delivery of one of them to the gaoler, any refusal to receive and detain would be treated by the House instantaneously as a gross contempt of its order.The Speaker
1017| | thought it necessary to say a few words in point of form. In many
1017| |The Speaker
 apprehended that the hon. mover was mistaken in the situation in which the publisher was placed: Robert Stodart was not in custody, as he had only been ordered to attend the House to-day. As to the necessity of the attendance of Mr. Hobhouse himself, if it had depended merely upon the information of the publisher, it would be fit, according to all the precedents, that Mr. Hobhouse himself should be called before the House, that he might, if he were able, disprove the assertion, and show that he was not the author of the libel. Here, however, a declaration had been made through an hon. member by Mr. Hobhouse, admitting that he was the author, and it seemed therefore unnecessary that he should be called upon to attend at the bar Such was the: ordinary course of proceeding; but, in the particular case, the House would judge for itself.The Speaker
, who said, he was quite satisfied, that, on a little reflection, the hon. baronet would perceive the course he was taking was not the proper one, since it impeached the opinion of the House at large.The Speaker
 and Mr. Brougham rose at the same moment, and the latter gentleman seeming determined to deliver his sentiments, the Speaker gave way.The Speaker
non constat,1025tum1024quan- said, that the House would perhaps excuse him for endeavouring, under their judgment and correction, to state what occurred to him with respect to the two principles that had been alluded to, and the ordinary course of proceeding in debates of this nature. He took it to be quite clear, that the House having decided that an offence was committed, and that that offence was a breach of their privileges, it was too late now to advance any argument to disprove the correctness of the decision. But he thought it was equally clear, when the question before the House was the non constat,1025tum1024quan-The Speaker
 That is the question now before the House.The Speaker
 said, he was very much mistaken if any thing that had fallen from him tended to invalidate the statement of the hon. and learned gentleman. But he certainly could not draw any distinction between one sort of publication and another. The order, as it was stated by the hon. and learned gentleman, was quite correct. But, in the ordinary course of debate, nothing was more common than to read extracts from papers as part of a speech. The practice and order of the House were perfectly consistent with each other. The practice was for general convenience; the order was to prevent it from being carried to abuse. The strict order, if he were called on for his opinion, did, he believed, prohibit the reading of extracts from any publication.The Speaker
 said, the question just decided in the affirmative was, whether particular words should stand part of the question or not? Amongst these, was found the word, "Newgate." As it had been decided that it should 6tand part of the question, it could not be altered by any amendment. An alteration could alone be effected by negativing the whole motion. The main question which he had now to put was—" That John Cam Hobhouse, Esq., be for his said offence, committed to his majesty's gaol of New-gate."The Speaker
1028 said, the petition was signed by a number of persons, who, whilst they were friends to peace and good order, wore, at the same time, lovers of the law and constitution. Whatever sacrifices might be called for, they were determined to defend that constitution which gave to Lords and Commons their power, and also to the people the legitimate source of that power, their sacred and inalienable rights. The people saw, in the bills now before the House, a new revolution in the frame of government—powers calculated to abolish their rights, to endanger their safety, and to outrage the feelings, and even the decencies of society. They saw a code, possessing all the characteristics of that despotism which some persons thought necessary for the proper government of man, but which, he thanked God, never had prevailed, and he hoped never would prevail, in this country. They saw, in three of those measures, a spirit foreign to British legislation. In the Libel bill they perceived a determination, not to remove the reasons which gave rise to sedition, but to fix an enormous penalty on the vague and undefined offence of libel. In another bill, they saw a power
1028Sir R. Wilson
 intimated, that he intended to move the re-appointment of the committee.Mr. S. Bourne
 said, he conceived it his duty to state that the petitioner's plan had been carried into execution in the House of Correction of the city of London on a small scale, and had been found of considerable advantage, in affording employment to persons capable of labouring. It gave employment to females as well as males. As far as the experiment had been tried, it had met with the approbation of the magistrates of London. As the object of this plan was the employment of the poor, and as an hon. baronet (sir W. de Crespigny) had given notice of a motion, which stood for tomorrow, for the appointment of a committee to take into consideration the plan of Mr. Owen, perhaps it might be advisable that Mr. Salisbury's plan should be referred to the same committee.Mr. Alderman Wood
 observed that the object of Mr. Salisbury was the employment of parish poor, whereas the plan of Mr. Owen went to the general employment of the poor in the agricultural districts. Mr. Salisbury's plan had already been carried into effect to a certain extent.Mr. B. Wilbraham
 said, that the plan of Mr. Salisbury, having for its object the advantageous employment of parish poor, might be submitted to the committee on the poor laws.Mr. S. Bourne
 wished to caution the House against allowing 'themselves to be run away with by their feelings of humanity. It had been said in recommendation of the spade husbandry, that the produce from it was the double of that of the plough. A case on which great stress had been laid, was that of a tenant of the hon. member for Newcastle, who was said to have obtained a produce by the spade, of 17½ quarters of wheat per acre. On inquiry into the subject, he learned from the tenant himself, that the produce had only been 74 quarters per acre.Sir C. Burrell
 had no objection to accede to this suggestion.Mr. B. Wilbraham
 having withdrawn his motion, the petition was afterwards ordered to be on the table and to be printed.Mr. B. Wilbraham
1170 said, he had a petition to present, to which he took the liberty of requesting the most serious attention of the House, as the subject of it was of the greatest importance, and it was signed by some of the most respectable persons in this metropolis. It was a petition signed by 52 booksellers and printers of this metropolis, complaining of that provision in the bill now in progress through the House, for the punishment of blasphemous and seditious libels, by which a second
1170Mr. J. Smith
 said, the literature of the country was inseparably connected with its prosperity, and any restraints on literature could not fail to be attended with the most ruinous effects. Speaking from his own personal knowledge, he could say, many individuals of great wealth and intelligence were engaged in the book trade in London. He hoped the House would pay serious attention to the petition. He hoped the noble lord and his colleagues would think it due to the intelligence and general loyalty of the petitioners, to pay some attention to the petition.Mr. Bernal
 said, though some part of the obnoxious matter of the bill was removed by the removal of the punishment of transportation, yet till it could be shown that the bill was absolutely necessary, he for one, should oppose it. It was a measure which should be met, in the first instance, as introducing an offence not known to the law of England. Even if the present law were found insufficient for the suppression of those blasphemous and seditious libels, which it was the wish of every man to put down, yet it remained for the noble lord to prove the pressing necessity for introducing this with the other bills which he had brought forward. When such a change in the law was to be made, why not announce it, and allow time for the consideration of it? Why, but because he believed there would be but one voice in England upon the subject. He could conceive the propriety of introducing bills respecting meetings, Upon the spur of the occasion, and if they had been limited to the time of exigency, there were those in the House, perhaps, who would not have made much objection to them. But the objection now was, that in three weeks we were actually to change the constitution of the country. Though the noble lord had made a concession by taking away the punishment of banishment, with a view to obviate the opposition of some, he deemed it his duty to state that the concession did not satisfy him.Mr. M. A. Taylor
 said, that he did not mention the alteration he had made in the idea that argument would be taken away, but because he deemed it right to apprise the House of the alteration, he intended to propose.Lord Castlereagh
llll1177d1176 rose to move the second reading of this bill, and observed, that in so doing, he might satisfy the object of the right hon. gentleman opposite, as well as his own, and the general convenience of the House. The bill might then be
llll1177d1176Lord Castlereagh
 much obliged to the noble lord for the explanation which he had just given. Without abandoning his objections to the principle of this measure, he was willing to close with the noble lord's proposition as to arrangement.Mr. Tierney felt
 observed, that it must be within the recollection of the House, that in his former allusions to this measure, he had spoken in ignorance of its provisions. As he was now informed upon that point, he felt his principal objection removed.—A noble friend of his had, in another place, effected an alteration which would be more beneficial to the interests of society than any enactment for a long period. The power of prosecuting on the part of the Crown was at length defined and limited. He made these remarks with the more satisfaction, because the noble lord to whom he had alluded (lord Holland) was a Whig of the first distinction.Mr. Tierney
 professed himself to be also desirous of acknowledging the merits of the noble lord to whom allusion had been made, and he felt it to be the more necessary on this occasion, because the credit of those modifications which the bill had undergone had been, he would not say taken by, but given to, another noble lord, who certainly had never shown himself an advocate for Whig principles; and it might also be remarked, that a similar provision had been submitted by his noble friend five years ago, and rejected by the other House.Mr. Brougham
 said, he was glad that the merits of the bill were acknowledged: whether they were to be ascribed to one noble lord, or to another, he would not then inquire.Lord Castlereagh
 begged to call the attention of the House to the fact, that the bill would take a different character, if the hours for searching houses were limited, according to the suggestion he had formerly offered. He hoped a clause to that effect would still be adopted, and in that hope he should vote for the amendment.Mr. Ommaney
 thought it was necessary to take the districts which were or had been disturbed, in a large and liberal sense. Though the Bill was an encroachment on constitutional right, it was necessary for security's sake, not only to cover the part where evil prevailed, but so much of the sound part as would prevent the disease from spreading. Though it was unpleasant to resist such appeals from gentlemen, he thought the purpose of the bill could not be answered if counties were divided into districts.Lord Castlereagh
 put a question to Mr. S. Bourne, with a view to learn, whether he intended to move for the revival of the committee on the poor laws?Lord Francis Osborne
 said, that though he acknowledged the necessity of the application of the bill to the north of Durham, there was no necessity for it in the south and western parts; He hoped the noble lord would consent to exempt them.—There was an example for this, as the west riding of Yorkshire was the only part of that county subjected to the bill.Mr. Powlett
1166 said, he held in his hand a Petition from a Mr. William Salisbury, the author of a plan for employing to advan-
1166Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
1168 was extremely averse
1168Mr. Brougham
1178 wished that the ground upon which he assented to the second reading should be distinctly understood: the explanations which had been given did not at all remove his general objection to the measure; but he certainly could perceive no advantage which could be derived from discussing it until it was printed with its new alterations. After all that had been said, he still remained of opinion that the introduction of a new punishment into our law was the most dangerous innovation which had been attempted in his time. To another principle he must also decidedly object. It was that which held forth that the possession of a certain fortune was necessary before any man should
1178Mr. Brougham
 said, he was extremely obliged to his hon. colleague for taking credit for the loyalty of the south-western part of Durham, in which he (Mr. Powlett) resided, at the expence of the northern parts. Now, he would say, that the northern part was equally free from disaffection. The western part just as much merited to be subject to this bill as the northern, that was to say, not at all. He moved, as an amendment, that the report be read, on this day six months.Mr. Lambton
 supported the amendmet, on the ground of the clause in the bill allowing a search by night.Mr. J. Martin
 was happy that any plan for the employment of the poor was in the hands of the member for Dover: it could not be in better hands.Mr. J. Smith
 thought it very possible the House might not think fit to appoint a committee to enter on so extensive a plan as Mr. Owen's; but the petition before the House related, to a specific plan of employment for parish poor, and it was of great consequence, at the present moment, to inquire whether it could or could not be realised. Every gentleman acquainted at all with Mr. Owen's plan, knew that it embraced far more extensive plans than the employment of the poor.Mr. Huskisson
 suggested the propriety of having the petition printed, that members might have an opportunity of considering it before the motion for a committee was submitted to the House.Mr. Lyttelton
 said, that Mr. Salisbury's plan might be of advantage in particular instances; but he disapproved of all plans of employing the people attended with great loss to the nation at large. Mr. Mellish
 thought the House ought to be very cautious how they gave countenance to the mistaken notions which prevailed among many people at present, with respect to extensive plans for the employment of the people. It might, however, be possible to provide employment in public works for great numbers of the working classes. The disproportion between the demand for labour and the number of labourers, would thus be lessened, by which wages would materially rise.Mr. Wilberforce
 said, that Mr. Owen had no wish whatever of deriving any emolument from his plan. He had no other object but to benefit mankind in general, and this country in particular.Sir W. De Crespigny
1167 observed, that, Mr. Owen's plan was certainly on a more large scale, and went to the general employment of the poor in spade husbandry. Mr. Owen conceived that the distress of
1167Sir W. De Crespigny
1169 said, in rising to move for leave to bring in a bill for the relief of Insolvent Debtors., he wished to explain some particular circumstances in which it differed from the bill passed by the House last session. The House would recollect, that the bill of last session subjected the debtor to a previous, examination of his affairs before coming into court, and that it gave the creditor the power of compelling the debtor to come forward and surrender his property. In consequence of the opposition which that, bill met with in another House, the old Insolvent act was renewed till April next. His majesty's ministers had not only removed the late commissioner of the insolvent court, but they had removed every clerk, and in doing so, he was convinced they had acted most property Whatever was the cause, what had passed had taken away all confidence in that court, and a complete change was absolutely necessary As far as he could learn, the effect of the change had been
1169Lord Althorp
prima facie1204120312021201 said, there was nothing more usual, out of the House, than to see gentlemen of opposite political opinions uniting cordially and substantially in efforts for the benefit of the poor; and he was convinced that no spectacle could be more consoling than the display of the same spirit in parliament. It showed that that House did not act on party grounds when the welfare of the people was the subject of discussion; it showed that when they could see their way clearly, they would all agree in measures for alleviating the public distress. It would have given him great pleasure to concur in the present motion, if he had not thought that the House by going into the inquiry would give the sanction of parliament to a plan not only visionary and impracticable, but in the highest degree dangerous to the country. While he opposed the plan, however, he wished to do every justice to the character of Mr. Owen, whose humane and benevolent intentions could not be too highly praised. Though he was not particularly acquainted with the nature of the establishment at Lanark, he believed all that had been said of it. Indeed, some years ago he had visited Lanark, and though the establishment had not then attained its present state of excellence, the impression on his mind at that time was, that it was productive of great benefit, and reflected the highest credit on Mr. Owen. He had then thought the general system superior to any other that he had ever seen; and from what he had heard, he believed it to have been improved since that time. But, notwith-
prima facie1204120312021201The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1206 explained. He did not object to Mr. Owen's plan, because Mr. Owen himself rejected the authority of all religions and all governments, but because Mr. Owen had stated the plan to be founded on those principles. As to the relief of the poor,
1206The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 presented a petition from Robert Lees, of Oldham, the father of Robert Lees, a young man who died in consequence of the wounds he received on the 16th of August, at Manchester, chiefly complaining of the manner in which the inquest on the body of his son had been conducted by the coroner, and of the impossibility of bringing the persons guilty of the violence by which his son lost his life, to trial.Sir Francis Burdett
 said, it did not appear that any application had been made for a criminal information against the magistrates who were said to have refused to interfere. The petitioner therefore had not done what he ought to have done. The conduct of the coroner was complained of. It appeared from what took place in the court of King's-bench, in consequence of the application for a mandamus, that the inquest was one of the most illegal proceedings which ever took place—as soon as the coroner perceived he had done wrong, he did what he could to redress that wrong.Mr. Blake
1212 opposed the motion. He was desirous to offer a few observations on the state of husbandry, in reply to some remarks which had been made upon the subject. In many cases, spade husbandry had been already tried, particularly in the hop counties, and most especially in Kent. This, therefore, was no new system. With regard to the printed papers which had been widely circulated—drawn up with the intention of displaying the large benefits likely to arise from, and the property to be rapidly accumulated by, the practice of spade husbandry, they were founded in mere delusion. It was quite impossible, he would venture to say, that any such quantity of corn could have been grown upon the same extent of land, as was said to have been raised by the superiority of spade husbandry. In particular instances, no doubt, much good might be effected by these means; but their general practice would be, in fact, the bringing back of agriculture, gener-
1212Sir Charles Burrell
1215†l. said, he would not detain the House more than a few minutes. The objections urged against Mr. Owen's plan were general, and yet almost every person so objecting, made some admission in its favour. It certainly ought not to be thrown out, as seemed to be the prevailing disposition, merely because it was Mr. Owen's plan. The great difficulties under which the country laboured, as had been repeatedly acknowledged, was the want of employment for labour and capital. This subject had been frequently before parliament, and, in some instances, it was deemed proper for government to interfere and lend its assistance to remedy the difficulty. Now, what said the excellent report of the commissioners who had been four years in Ireland, to examine into the state of agriculture; and to ascertain the quantity of waste lands? According to them, there were 2,500,000 acres lying waste in Ireland. And what did they assign as the cause of its so lying waste?—Why, the want of capital. There were, besides, the wastelands in England. He knew of one waste spot, which, if properly cultivated, would yield sustenance for 20,000 families, valuing them as 80,000 persons, and return 200,0001215†l.Mr. Alderman Wood
 in explanation observed, that no surplus grain was grown, simply for want of encouragement.Sir C. Burrell
12231222 said, he had no objection to the proposition of the hon. gentleman. It was obvious, however, that the object of his motion was pecuniary assistance; and he would state very shortly to the House the
12231222The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1232║radical12311230l.1229 said:—Mr. Speaker; I regret that language should have been used in this debate, the tendency of which is rather to aggravate than allay the discontents that prevail among the labouring classes of the community. I also regret as it is admitted on all hands that these discontents originated chiefly in distress, that his majesty's ministers have it not in contemplation to bring forward any measures by which that distress may be alleviated. I admit that the safety of the state is the first object that demanded their attention; but that being provided for by the various bills now in progress through the House, I think measures of relief, as far as relief is practicable, ought to go hand in hand with measures of coercion. It has been stated in many loyal addresses to the throne, echoed back again to us in the speech from the throne, re-echoed in our address, and repeated in various speeches in this House, that this distress is only of a temporary nature. Often as I have heard this asserted, I have never once heard it attempted to be proved; and I believe for this plain reason, that to prove it is impossible, because this distress is inherent in, and inseparable from, the situation in which this country is now placed. We are in an artificial and extraordinary state of things, different from that of any other nation on earth. We have to provide for the interest of an immense national debt, in addition to the expenses of our regular peace establishment, so that the ordinary sources of revenue, derived from taxes on internal consumption, which served to defray the expenses of other governments, will not suffice for our wants; but we depend also upon the revenue derived from manufacturing, to a great extent, for the consumption of foreign powers. This resource is of immense importance, as may be seen by the single instance of the cotton manufac-
1232║radical12311230l.1229Mr. Marryat
 stated, that he had been extremely desirous, if it had been possible, to give his support to this bill. The object of himself and the friends with whom he acted, in the opposition which they had given to the present measures was the security of the public peace; but even though such was their object, neither he nor they could support a bill which authorized the searching of a man's house by night for arms. If the noble lord on the other side would call to his recollection what had passed in another country, he would find that arms had been seized more easily by day than by night; and without any of those violations of decency and decorum which must naturally take place when a man's doors were broken, open, and his whole family suddenly exposed to the gaze and inspection of official intruders. For these reasons he should vote against the measure.Mr. Calcraft
1233 wished to explain the vote which he intended to give this evening, as some gentlemen might not know how to reconcile it with his vote of a former evening. He could have wished the words "by night" to have been struck
1233Sir Joseph Yorke
 said, that no man was more anxious than he was to justify the right of the people of England to have arms; but, in the present state of the public mind, he thought it expedient to place this right under some restriction.Mr. Dickinson
 could have wished the government to have come forward with some more conciliatory measure. He would have agreed to the bill now before the House if the clause, allowing the search by night, had undergone the amendment which an hon. friend of his had proposed. The bill in its present form contained something so hostile to the spirit of the constitution, that he could not possibly support it. He was not sufficiently acquainted with the forms of the House to know how to proceed, in order to throw it out; but he trusted, that some gentleman of greater parliamentary experience than he possessed, would take the proper course to effect that object.Lord James Stuart
 said, that he should move to leave out the words "by night," if for no other reason at least for this—to give an hon. baronet on the other side (sir J. Yorke) the opportunity of voting twice in 29 years against the government [A laugh].Mr. Tierney
 then put the question, that this bill be now read a third time, which was agreed to without a division, on the motion that the bill do now pass, Mr. Tierney moved to leave out the words "by night," on which the House divided—For the motion, 46; Against it, 158: Majority, 112. The bill was then passed.The Speaker
1195 seconded the motion. He was so well acquainted with the practical effect of Mr. Owen's plan, and with the great distress which existed in that part of the country near which his establishment was situated, and particularly he so well knew the anxiety which existed among the great body of those who were so distressed to have the plan inquired into, that he conceived the House ought to take the matter into consideration. At the same time that he asserted this, he did not mean to give his support to those numerous theories which had been founded upon Mr. Owen's plan. He saw, however, that a great part of it had produced an excellent effect, and he conceived that one ground why it was entitled to an examination. He did not look upon the present motion as one which went to embrace the whole of Mr. Owen's plan (which he feared, if taken up in a national or general view, would be attended with too great an expense), but to extract and separate the useful parts of it from those numerous and extensive projects with which it was combined. He would support the motion, in consequence of the good effects which he understood to have resulted from some of Mr. Owen's exertions, and from the feeling which he was aware existed among the poorer classes, that a trial of it might be made with advantage to them. One thing had resulted from the operation of this plan at New Lanark—that it had united large bodies of human beings in the strongest bonds of kindness and affection towards each, other; in such a manner indeed as he believed was never seen or known before. This was a strong reason with him in support of the inquiry, and he thought that
1195Lord Archibald Hamilton
1216 contended, that the hon. member for Bramber had wholly misrepresented Mr. Owen's intentions, and his theological views. He had read the paper drawn up by a committee who had been appointed at Leeds to inquire into the nature of the establishment at New Lanark, and who had declared, that they never saw a purer system of morality than was there practised. While Mr. Owen did not disguise his own views of polemical subjects, he was not so extravagant
1216Mr. D. W. Harvey
120912081207 observed, that he was completely at war with the system of Mr. Owen, which was built upon a theory inconsistent with the principles of political economy, and in his opinion was calculated to produce infinite mischief to the community. Something had fallen from an hon. member on a former night, on the subject of the employment of machinery. It could not be denied, on the whole view of the subject, that machinery did not lessen the demand for labour; while, on the other hand, it did not consume the produce of the soil, nor employ any of our manufactures. It might also be misapplied by occasioning the production of too much cotton, or too much cloth; but the moment those articles ceased in consequence to pay the manufacturer, he would devote his time and capital to some other purpose. Mr. Owen's plan proceeded upon this—he who was such an enemy to machinery, only proposed machinery of a different kind: he would bring into operation a most active portion of machinery, namely, human arms. He would dispense with ploughs and horses in the increase of the productions of the country, although the expense as to them must be much less when compared with the support of men. He confessed he did not agree in the general principles of the plan under consideration, but he was disposed to accede to the proposition of a committee. Spade husbandry Mr. Owen recommended as more beneficial to production. He was not informed enough on the interests of agriculture to give an opinion, but that was a reason for sending the subject to a committee. For what did the country want at the present moment? A demand for labour. If the facts stated of spade husbandry were true, it was a beneficial course, as affording that demand. And though government or the legislature would not be wisely employed in engaging in any commercial experiment, it would be advantageous that it should, under present circumstances, circulate useful information and correct prejudices. They should separate such considerations from a division of the country into parallelograms, or the establishment of a community of goods, and similar vi-
120912081207Mr. Ricardo
1224 said; there was a great difference between the distress of the manufacturing districts in England and in Scotland, inasmuch as in the one country
1224Mr. Primrose
12281227, thought it extraordinary that government, knowing all this distress to exist, had not been prepared with some measures to relieve it. He was not at all surprised that those who were connected with that part of Scotland, and who had themselves been eye-witnesses of the misery and starvation which prevailed there, should express themselves in warm language; and he trusted that the House, on taking that circumstance into consideration, would pardon any warm expressions that might have been used. There were occasions on which government was glad to employ the distressed part of the population on works of general importance. This had been done at Glasgow and elsewhere; but in the county of Renfrew, no public works could be undertaken; and thus the principle which was good in one part of Scotland, was bad in
12281227Mr. Tierney
12001199119811971196 said, that he was anxious to state the grounds upon which he was disposed to vote for the present motion, without being understood in any degree to support the general principles with which it was connected. In the first place he thought, that in the present distressed state of the country, that plan which proposed to alleviate such distress should be very wild and exceptionable, indeed, against which the House should peremptorily shut its ears. It was no doubt among the misfortunes belonging to the distress of the people, that they were too ready to attend to any visionary scheme that promised them relief; that they were disposed, as it might be said, to catch at straws, in the hope of saving themselves from sinking. This was, however, too generally the consequence of popular calamity. But parliament should be guarded, not to give the sanction of its high authority to any visionary project, because that sanction might do considerable mischief, especially in this way, that if such an impracticable plan were recommended by the House, that recommendation would weaken its power of carrying into effect any plan of less extent, but more practicability, as the people would naturally be disposed to say—"What comparison do the advantages of this plan bear to the prospects held out by the project of Mr. Owen?" This was, therefore, with him one reason why the House should look with extreme caution to any of those measures which were proposed in the present shape. At the same time he did not wish that the House should reject all inquiry on the subject before them. He was desirous not to be understood as meaning to agree to Mr. Owen's plan. He conceived the theory on which it was founded to be wholly erroneous. It was founded upon a principle which he denied—that of the increase of population being a benefit to the country. On the contrary, he had no hesitation in stating, that the excess of population was one of the great causes of the distress which at present afflicted the country. Yet
12001199119811971196Mr. Brougham
1189§118811871186Of being cheated as to cheat.""Certes, the pleasure is as greatrespondere parati11851184 said, the hon. gentleman was quite mistaken as to the particulars of the proceedings in the Court of King's-bench, with regard to the inquest. The court entertained the motion for a rule to show cause why a mandamus should not be issued to the coroner, and the only reason why the mandamus was not issued was, that the coroner came forward and stated his own irregularity as an excuse for not proceeding further with the inquest. The coroner had acted illegally
1189§118811871186Of being cheated as to cheat.""Certes, the pleasure is as greatrespondere parati11851184Mr. Brougham
1181 said, he held in his hands a petition from a person of the name of Thomas Redford. He had not any acquaintance with this person, nor could he vouch for the accuracy of the statements in the petition, but it was couched in respectful language.1181Mr. Brougham
 said, that the wording of the motion, supposing it were otherwise unobjectionable, would induce him to vote against it, as it in fact recognized Mr. Owen's plan. It was impossible that he could give his support to any plan, which in its results could only, he thought, tend to delusion and disappointment. He did not intend to delay the House by entering at all into questions of employment of capital, or amount of revenue, to which indeed, he felt quite incompetent. Unquestionably a great deal was expected of them by the country; of that hon. gentlemen must be aware; and while he must admit that there was much which they could not do, he was not the less disposed to assist most warmly in the development of any measure which might have a tendency effectually to relieve the suffering poor.—But he really thought that, if the hon. baronet had the interest of Mr. Owen warmly at heart, he would not make an unfavourable impression on the public mind with respect to it, by pressing his motion to the division, which must, if he persisted, shortly take place.Mr. Calcraft
1225 said, that while distress so generally pervaded the whole country, he could not refrain from observing on the contracted, and unstatesman-like policy pursued by his majesty's government. Two special considerations had been omitted in their views of that great question, namely, the want of provisions for those persons whose families were in a state of starvation, and the general interests of the community. Ministers seemed inclined to throw the support of the distressed upon the more opulent, without considering that every pressure on them, would necessarily re-act upon the people. It would be no answer to those who could not procure food, that the army was increased, that coercive measures were necessary to be enforced, and that an increased expenditure was requisite to meet the general exigencies of the times. All that might be the case; but it would never satisfy the people, nor procure them the means of subsistence. Their distresses should be looked to, and the causes that produced them probed to the bottom; if any serious intention was entertained of effectually removing them. In a season of such emergency as the present, the government and he parliament should interfere; for the poor
1225Mr. J. P. Grant
1182 presented a petition from Thomas Bowker of Crawshawfold, in the county Palatine of Lancaster, setting forth:1182Mr. Lambton
 said, he regretted extremely the troubling the House with any thing relating to himself. But in consequence of what was stated the other night by a noble lord, he had written immediately to his agent. It would be in the recollection of that House, that the noble lord had stated he was informed that his (Mr. L.'s) agent had dismissed several individuals from his mines in consequence of their being radicals. By a letter which he had this day received from Durham, his agent positively assured him that no radicals had been dismissed from his employment, that he was astonished such reports should be propagated; that the men were never more peaceable than at the present moment.Mr. Lambton
1221122012191218 rose, pursuant to notice, to bring forward his motion relating to the Manufacturing Districts in Scotland. He said, that at the time of his return from the continent he found the county of Renfrew labouring under a most severe pressure; but the pressure was most heavy upon those who were engaged in the manufacturing interest. They were wholly unable to support themselves by their exertions. Those who were appointed to relieve them had recourse to plans of artificial labour, such as the making of roads, &c., A large sum was subscribed for the purpose of that relief, under the idea that their distresses would prove to be only of a temporary nature; but after expending that, unfortunately another was found necessary to be demanded. In consequence of the situation in which Renfrewshire was placed, it was determined that a petition should be agreed to, stating the nature of the local distress, and
1221122012191218Mr. Maxwell
 expressed his hope that the House would not refuse to grant the committee moved for by the hon. baronet.Mr. Maxwell
1205 eulogised the character of Mr. Owen, who had long exerted himself to alleviate the distresses of his fellow creatures. It appeared that the right hon. gentleman (the chancellor of the exchequer) was not disposed to give assistance to the plan, because it was proposed by a person who differed from himself on the subjects of religion and politics. In that respect he dissented from the views of the right hon. gentleman. No man could more lament than he did, the course which Mr. Owen had pursued; and indeed, he had told him, that if he introduced those obnoxious sentiments, he would prevent people from supporting his plan. Still he could not agree with those who thought this a sufficient ground for rejecting it. It was indeed a part of Mr. Owen's system to teach men to make allowance for such differences of opinion. He had never in the course of his life known a person so thoroughly exempt from prejudice or self-interest as Mr. Owen. The right hon. gentleman would allow him to remind him of an extraordinary circumstance attending the establishment at Lanark, and which particu-
1205Mr. John Smith
 said, that every attention was paid by lord Liverpool, and the right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer to every remonstrance and memorial presented on the part of the distressed operatives of Scotland.Mr. Kirkman Finlay
 opposed the motion. He saw no benefit that could arise from the appointment of a committee. Spade husbandry, whatever good effects it might otherwise be attended with in some places, would not afford permanent relief! because it would not afford permanent employment.Mr. N. Calvert
1210 disapproved of the plan as a general one. It was however much more objectionable when first brought forward than at present. With all the prejudices that were entertained against it, he saw no reason why it should not be sent to a committee, if it were only for the purpose of satisfying the public, and showing the impracticability of it Mr.
1210Mr. Alderman Waithman
1226 repelled the charge of inattention made on the government by
1226Mr. Huskisson
12141213 could not give his consent to this plan. His right hon. friend opposite, had already stated, as part of his objection to Mr. Owen's plan, the nature of his religious principles. This observation did not appear to be correctly understood by his hon. friend on the bench behind him. It applied, as he apprehended, not to the principles of any particular sect of any religion, but to those avowed by Mr. Owen himself; and if Mr. Owen, as he understood, objected to all the systems of religion at present established—if his whole plan proceeded upon a system of morals founded upon no religion whatever, but rather upon considerations of moral rectitude of conduct only, he was of opinion that it behoved the House to be cautious how it gave its sanction to an institution, which did not acknowledge as one of its essential features, that doctrine, on whose truth and piety it was not for him now to enlarge. In the year 1817, he had read a paper connected with this subject, which he presumed all who heard him had also seen. Till that paper came under his observation, he had really felt disposed to vote for the plan. That paper had, however, altered his opinion. It seemed an object of Mr. Owen, to establish a number of little communities, with each a certain allotment of ground through out the country. This, it was contended, would increase the quantity of sustenance. The conclusion implied that man would labour more diligently for the advantages to be distributed throughout a little community, than for his own individual profit. It was a position at variance with daily practice and constant experience. Societies which were to enjoy a sort of community of goods. He (Mr. Wilberforce) had not had
12141213Mr. Wilberforce
1183 presented a petition from Thomas Barlow, of little Heaton, in the county Palatine of Lancaster, weaver, setting forth,1183Sir Robert Wilson
11941193"Cirencester, Dec.l.ll.119211911190, in pursuance of the notice which he had given, rose for the purpose of moving that a select committee be appointed to inquire into the plan of Mr. Owen for ameliorating the condition, of the lower classes. He trusted that the same spirit of conciliation which had marked the debate of Tuesday last would be manifested on this occasion. Labouring under severe indisposition, he brought this question forward with increased embarrassment. It had been his hope that some hon. gentleman more conversant with the subject would have introduced it to the consideration of the House, and appeared in the character of an advocate for his distressed and suffering fellow-countrymen. Under these circumstances, the House, he doubted not, would extend to him its kindness and indulgence. He could assure it, that he would endeavour to contract his observations into the narrowest compass. The question was rather one of humanity than
11941193"Cirencester, Dec.l.ll.119211911190Sir W. De Crespigny
1217 replied. An argument had been urged against the motion, which was scarcely to be justified.—He owned that he felt extremely sore at that argument; recollecting, as he did, that in his life he had never witnessed a purer religion than that established at Lanark. It was true that more of the inmates belonged to the Methodistical church than to the Established; it was, however, a fine sight (and had the hon. member for Bramber been present he would have thought the same) to see them on each Sunday proceeding to their different places of worship. A right honourable gentleman, who had attacked Mr. Owen's plan, had coupled with it parliamentary reform. Now, he understood that to parliamentary reform Mr. Owen was decidedly hostile. Something had also been said about a community of property. There was no such thing at Lanark. Every man had his little cottage, purchased what he required, received his
1217Sir W De Crespigny
1211 was sorry to differ in some respects from his hon. friend the hon. member for Portarlington. He agreed with him however, in the leading principles he laid down with respect to the causes of the present distress, and the mode of applying a remedy. He was not of the same opinion with his hon. friend on the subject of the corn laws. In principle they were wrong; and he opposed them when the subject was before the House. Still, he felt that in a period of war they would be of advantage in procuring an independent supply of that most necessary article. It was also a great object to secure the employment of capital in agriculture. It might indeed be said that it was bad economy to grow corn at home when it could be had cheaper from other countries. The answer to this was, that they could not secure a supply at home in time of war unless by imposing some tax on corn of foreign growth. He agreed with what was said respecting their commercial system, and was surprised that no means had been adopted for opening a more extensive market with foreign countries, particularly France. He did not allude to a commercial treaty; that, in his mind, was not desirable; but by admitting the wines and silks of France, the produce of this country would be taken in return, and produce mutual advantage. He did not think it would be prudent to agree to the present motion. All were agreed that the plan proposed was absurd; where, then, was the necessity for appointing a committee to prove its absurdity? If they were to engage in inquiry upon such grounds there
1211Lord Althorp
 agreed that an advantage would be derived from delaying the consideration of this case till after the discussion on the Grampound bill. The present bill was free from one material objection to the Grampound bill; namely, the proposition for giving to the unconvicted voters of Grampound votes for the county. If there was one part of our representation which ought to be more sacred than another, it was that of the representation of counties. The principle of the Grampound bill went to put another class of voters on an equality with freeholders. There were now three bills in the House relating to boroughs in the same county. In Wales, four or five boroughs all contributed (not by delegation, as in Scotland) to return one member. It might be possible, in like manner, to class together the unconvicted voters of the different boroughs of which the district would not be greater than one of those in Wales.Mr. Wynn
1298 was happy, that in the projected alteration of the Penryn bill, the right to elect would be given to a district including such populous places as Falmouth and Penzance. There was no necessity for adhering rigorously to the same precedent, when the adherence would not be productive of the same be-
1298Sir C. Monck
 observed, that in many of the boroughs the right of returning the members was vested in the corporation, which could take no part in returning members for the hundred.Mr. D. Gilbert
 observed, that the circumstance of a person possessing a freehold in a town having a right to vote for both the town and county was by no means uncommon. If they acted, therefore, on the principle of excluding persons from a county vote, because he had already a vote in the hundred, the next step would be, to deprive those who had a vote in a town of their vote for the county. He protested against depriving any man of his franchise on speculative grounds. He was friendly to the principle adopted in the case of Shoreham.Mr. Sergeant Onslow
 said, he had that day seen a great many persons connected with the book trade, who were of opinion that their interests would be much affected by this bill. He hoped the noble lord would therefore allow full time for the consideration of so important a measure. The booksellers, notwithstanding the alterations which had been made, were still in the greatest alarm. He was willing to believe that it was not the intention of the noble lord to affix a stamp duty to certain publications respecting which their apprehensions were excited, but the bill as now worded would have the effect of doing so. It would require a day or two at least to examine the bill to see in what way it would operate. He wished to know from the noble lord whether time would be granted for the proper examination of this bill?Mr. J. Smyth
 said, he would consent to have the bill re-committed on Monday next. He did not think it would be advisable to fix a later day, as it was desirable that a measure of the kind should be discussed with the fullest attendance. In the interval between this and Monday, the bill might undergo the examination which gentlemen wished.Lord Castlereagh
 said, it appeared to him that this was by far the most important of all the measures proposed to parliament, principally when considered as the foundation of future legislation. He put it, therefore, to the noble lord, whether there was any necessity for pressing it forward at present. It seemed to him to require the most mature consideration.Mr. J. P. Grant
1300 said, that the principle of the bill seemed to his majesty's ministers to be of great importance. So far
1300Lord Castlereagh
 said, that the principle of the bill was so involved and mixed up with the details, that it was impossible to discuss the principle till the details of the arrangement were known.Mr. Brougham
 observed, that after the arrangements were agreed to in the committee on Monday, the discussion on the principle might take place.Lord Castlereagh
 hoped that between this and Monday such alterations might be devised as would secure the interests of this trade, not merely for the sake of the trade itself, but for the sake of the community. His objection was chiefly directed to the principle of resorting to stamp duties, not as a means of revenue, but of prohibition of publication.Mr. Brougham
l.1302 said, he had the strongest objections to the military college. He
l.1302Colonel Davies
 said, that after all the professions and pledges of economy and retrenchment which the House had heard last session from his majesty's ministers, he had hoped they would have made some sincere and effectual effort to redeem their promises. It now appeared that he had been deceived in such an expectation. He therefore embraced that occasion of giving notice, that he should on some night immediately after the recess, move for a committee to inquire into the whole of the army expenditure. In the state in which the country was placed, it was their duty to look to every possible means of lessening the public expenses.Colonel Davies
ex officio  said, that as he had opposed all the other new measures which had been proposed to the House, he was glad to state that the clause in this bill which limited the time for prosecuting ex officio Lord Ebrington
 inserted as an amendment after the words directing an application to the court, the words "free of all expense to the party applying." Mr. Denman said it had been doubted (though he believed it applied to Wales) whether it applied to that country. The Attorney General said it certainly did. The report was agreed to.The Attorney General
ex-officio said, that having originally put the question respecting the limiting of ex-officioMr. G. Lamb
 intimated that he should leave the subject for discussion at a future period.Mr. Calcraft
 wished to call the attention of the noble lord to a part of his speech on a former day, which, contrary to his intentions he was sure, had wounded the feelings of a most respectable individual, whom he had known for a number of years. He alluded to the late chief clerk of the Insolvent Debtors court.Mr. Calcraft
 said, he should not press the discussion of the subject against the wish of the House, but it did appear strange, that when 10 or 12,000 men were added to a standing army in time of peace, and that standing army too the largest that ever was known in the country at any similar time, the noble lord should pass it over as an ordinary matter of business which called for no explanation. Though he was not prepared, under all the circumstances of the country to say that he should peremptorily oppose the calling out of the pensioners, yet he thought it the duty of members, to awaken the jealousy of the country to such proceedings He hardly knew, however, how to begin a discussion on which he should be ready to enter, as the noble lord had given no reasons for the vote. He saw too, among the votes, a sum for the military college. He, for one, should object to that vote at that moment, as the utility of that application of money was very questionable He had rather that the noble lord should take a sum on account generally, without specifying particular heads, as parliament would then be pledged to no principle except, perhaps, that of the increase of the army, by calling out the pensioners.Mr. Calcraft
nolle prosequiex-officio suggested that the officers of the Crown should, in the case of nolle prosequiex-officioMr. Bernal
certiorari1303certio rari, said, he considered the bill as an improvement in the law of England. Though he was not desirous of clogging its progress by the addition of clauses, he should mention, that as the law now stood, every prosecutor on a misdemeanor had the power, without cause assigned, of removing the cause by certiorari1303certio rariMr. Denman
1299 said, he was sorry that anything he had said should have wounded the feelings of the individual in question. He certainly did not intend to do so. In the course of the investigation before the, committee nothing came out which would
1299Lord Althorp
 brought in the Insolvent Debtors bill, and moved its first reading.Lord Althorp
 said, the House had at the beginning of the session been made acquainted with the increase of the army. He had proposed a vote generally for the service of one quarter; and he should have no objection to propose a vote for the whole on account, without specifying particular services, with the exception of that for the military college and asylum, which did not pass through the hands of the paymaster-general, and which it was from that reason necessary; to have under a separate head. But if any gentleman wished to put an end to the military college, it would not certainly be proposed to abolish it before the 24th of March, and it was only till, that time that the sum to be voted would supply the establishment. The expense of the college was less than it had been last year, as reductions were in progress. It would be desirable, too, that the measure of calling out the pensioners should be recognized by a vote.Lord Palmerston
l. said, that the House had seen the abstracts of the estimates on the table. It had not yet been in his power to make out the usual detailed estimates for the year. At present his object was merely to move a vote of certain sums on account. After the recess the detailed estimates should be laid before the House in the usual form. The sum now required was nearly one million and a half, which included the expenses incurred by the call of out-pensioners, and the forming of them into royal veteran battalions, up to Christmas. The noble lord then moved—"That it is the opinion, of this committee that a sum not exceeding 900,000l.Lord Palmerston
 said, the number of volunteer and yeomanry corps had been increased. The exact number he could not state, as the services of those corps were accepted, not by the War office, but by the home department. The increase on the estimates was merely on the volunteer service, and from the charges of calling out the pensioners.Lord Palmerston
 rose, and said, he had understood from what had been said on a former occasion by an hon. and learned gentleman, that no discussion was to take place on the motion that the Speaker do leave the chair, but that the principle of the bill was to be debated in the subsequent stage.Lord Castlereagh
 said he had been misunderstood. His meaning was, that they should debate the principle of the bill on the motion for the Speaker's leaving the chair, and afterwards go into its details in the committee; for it was clear that he never meant that both its principle and its details should be discussed in the committee.Mr. Brougham
1328**132713261325l.l.ll.l.l.1324ultra1323132213211320 concurred with his hon. and learned friend in thinking this the proper stage for discussing the principle of the measure before, the House; although the noble lord, after having taken credit to himself for granting a delay of three days, now wished them to go into the committee without saying one word on the principle of the measure. A more
1328**132713261325l.l.ll.l.l.1324ultra1323132213211320Mr. Macdonald
1329 denied that the law of libel was of that vague nature asserted by the hon. gentleman. If gentlemen considered the nature of a seditious libel, they would find that it had its origin in inveterate malice; and therefore, in such times as the present, it was necessary to apply an effectual check to the mischief. He thought that ministers would have been guilty of a dereliction of duty, if they had not brought forward such measures as those which had formed the subject of the hon. gentleman's animadversion; for the publications which had of
1329Mr. W. Dickinson
imprimatur13311330 said, he was happy the hon, member who had just sat down had risen before him, and he begged leave to say that he entirely agreed in every word he had uttered. With respect to
imprimatur13311330Mr. Sergeant Onslow
 explained. He had not made the assumption ascribed to him by the hon. and learned sergeant as to the authors; he had merely put a case in illustration of his argument.Mr. Macdonald
13361335in terrorem,133413331332 said, that at a
13361335in terrorem,133413331332Mr. J. R. S. Graham
13381337 observed, that the arguments urged in favour of the bill sent down from the House of Lords (which was so connected with their own bill that it was difficult to keep them separate in the present discussion), were of a very curious and extraordinary nature. The hon. member for Somersetshire supported it, because it did not affect the trial by jury; and by a parody of reasoning, if a bill was brought in affecting the trial by jury, he might support that, because it did not touch the liberty of the press. He considered the trial by jury, and the liberty of the press, as the great bulwarks of British liberty, and therefore would
13381337Mr. Marryat
1342imprimatimprimatur134113401339†llimprimatur said, he could not suffer this bill, which formed a branch of that system of coercion which had been adopted by his majesty's ministers, to pass, without calling upon those who had already done much towards the promotion of the system to which he alluded, not now to do that which would have a tendency to change the whole system of the law of the press of England. If any thing could increase his repugnance to the proposed bills, and to the pretexts under which they had been introduced by their authors, it was to find them defended by such men as the hon. member for Somersetshire, and his hon. and learned friend, gentlemen who were considered under the denomination of impartial, and as holding the balance between the two great parties who divided that House. If that was the course such men intended to pursue, and on such grounds as they professed, it were better that the popular branch of the government should abdicate its functions, and leave the interests of the constituency at once to the mercy of the ministers of the Crown. In all the former measures that were discussed, it was both degrading and mortifying, when so much stress was laid upon shadows, and such a disregard of principle, to see that body, which was called the House of Commons, holding no one principle in common with the great mass of the people of this country. It appeared to him that the two bills before the House, although different in their object, were yet the same in spirit. He should however consider them separately; and at present should confine himself as much as possible to that before the House. The present subject for their consideration was the Stamp Duty bill. The principle of this bill, he contended, was altogether new, and had the direct tendency of an 1342imprimatimprimatur134113401339†llimprimaturMr. Denman
 in explanation, denied having made any allusion to the proceedings of the Star Chamber in the observations which he had felt it his duty to submit to the House.Mr. Dickinson
1349134813471346134513441343 was most anxious to ex-
1349134813471346134513441343Mr. Bankes
135213511350 observed, that the early part of the speech of the hon. gentleman who had just sat down, was not at all applicable to the question. It might have, with propriety, been urged to a radical meeting, but not to that House, that the present age had rights and advantages which were not enjoyed by our ancestors. He was quite willing to allow that no argument in favour of the liberty of the press was to be deduced from a reference to the ancient periods to which the hon. gentleman had adverted. He had listened to the hon. gentleman with great attention; but really he had been at a loss to discover what were the hon. gentleman's intentions, till the last part of his speech, when some new lights broke in upon him, and did seem to discover something like them. After observing upon the extensive influence of the press, the hon. gentleman had proceeded to regret what the country had,
135213511350Mr. Abercromby
l1357ll1356135513541353 said, he could not refrain from offering a few observations on the measure now before the House, and the extraordinary manner in which it had been supported. The bill itself though objectionable in every point of view, did not appear to him nearly so alarming as the speech of the hon. member for Corfecastle. There never, he believed, had been a speech delivered within the walls of parliament of so unconstitutional a nature since the enactment of the arbitrary statutes which it described. The hon. member had collected the severe and
l1357ll1356135513541353Mr. Bennet
1360†Knowledge of good and evil is from thee."Like Eden's dread probationary tree,Thou ever bubbling source of endless lies;Thou fountain at which drink the good and wise;Diffus'd make Earth the vestibule of Hell.By thee worse plagues than Pharaoh's land hefel,Exert their influence and advance their cause;"By thee, Religion, Liberty, and Laws,13591358 contended, that it was unfair to regard one measure separately, for they ought to be considered collectively as measures which were made necessary by the peculiar situation of the country. —He agreed with the hon. member who had spoken last, upon the subject of education in answer to observations upon that point which had been made by the hon. member for Corfe Castle.—He never could bring himself to believe that the lower classes could receive too much education,—or that any bounds could be justifiably prescribed to the extension of knowledge and the improvement of the human understanding; he thought that they might be too little educated, and that the present period was one in which advantage had been taken of their limited means of information; he thought that as in twilight objects were sometimes seen in distorted proportions, which upon the
1360†Knowledge of good and evil is from thee."Like Eden's dread probationary tree,Thou ever bubbling source of endless lies;Thou fountain at which drink the good and wise;Diffus'd make Earth the vestibule of Hell.By thee worse plagues than Pharaoh's land hefel,Exert their influence and advance their cause;"By thee, Religion, Liberty, and Laws,13591358Mr. Wilmot
13621361 considered the present bills as destructive of the liberty of the press, and consequently dangerous to the other liberties of the country. The hon. member for Corfe-Castle had shown what sort of system this bill formed part of, by going back to tyrannical times for his precedents. An hon. and learned gentleman had accused those who aided the subscription to Mr. Hone as supporters of blasphemy. He was not in the House at the time when this charge was made, otherwise he would have defended himself and his friends against it. Imputations were not only thrown out against Mr. Hone and his friends, but against the jury by whom he was acquitted. Now Mr. Hone was acquitted, not because the jury wished to sanction blasphemy, but because they conceived that the political squib which was charged with blasphemy was not published for the purpose of reviling religion. He (Mr. Waithman) was in court during the trial, and having witnessed the ability, the fortitude, and the eloquence, with which Mr. Hone defended himself, and conceiving him persecuted unjustly, for an offence against religion, while he had only a political object in view, he was among the foremost to promote a subscription for him and his family. The present measures were subversive of the Bill of Rights, and by them the right of petition was also destroyed. The liberty of speech being taken from the subject, the present bill was an attempt to deprive him of the liberty of the press. But he would ask why government had suffered all those obnoxious publications to go on without interruption for so long a time, if it was not to form an excuse for passing these measures? It had been said, he could not tell whether truly, that some of the individuals who issued those publications actually had the sanction of the government in publishing them. He could not say he knew the fact; but some of these publications were of a nature so abominable, that several respectable individuals came to him and expressed their confidence that they must have the sanction of government, or the publishers would never have dared to proceed such lengths; and it had actually
13621361Mr. Alderman Waithman
136513641363 observed, that the speeches of several hon. friends of his had left little further to be urged in support of the measures before the House. The speech of his right hon. friend, the member for the university of Dublin, especially, had shed such intensity of light upon the subject, that he could not conceive how the wisdom of the measures could be questioned, or how their necessity could be denied. He was anxious, however, to explain his reasons for the votes he gave upon all those measures. He was impelled to speak of them all, because it had been repeatedly stated in the course of the night, that those measures annihilated the liberty of petitioning, and subverted the liberties of the country. But those measures, in his opinion, were so far from annihilating the liberty of petitioning, and subverting the liberties of the
136513641363Dr. Phillimore
1366 said, he wished to put a question to the noble lord. If a bookselling house, consisting of six partners,
1366Mr. J. Wharton
13681367 rose to object to the extreme unreasonableness and hardship of obliging every printer of a paper containing less than two sheets, or that should be sold for less than sixpence, not only to enter into a recognizance himself in the sum of three hundred pounds, but also to find two or three sufficient sureties to enter into a recognizance for the like sum, that he should not publish a libel. He had no objection to the clause as far as
13681367Mr. Marryat
1369§ supported the amendment, and said, that nine out
1369§Mr. Alderman Waithman
 said, that under the bill as it stood, all accounts of proceedings affecting the arts and sciences, agriculture, &c. would be prohibited, except under all the burthens and restrictions it imposed.Mr. W. Smith
 said, it had been assumed that the bill was to affect all printers: this was not the fact. That it would affect those who with small means, and no character to lose, and no stake in the common-weal, was true. This he deemed to be a good. All public questions would still be discussed, but in a more temperate and decent manner.Mr. R. Wharton
 wished to know whether it was really intended to suppress all publications containing accounts of events? For instance, there was a publication on a sheet or half sheet, containing an account of the distress of the Scilly Isles, widely circulated for the purposes of charity.Mr. W. Smith
1370 said, that no publications would be affected that were not exposed for sale; and the words describing papers containing news, intelligence, and occurrences, being borrowed from the newspaper act, all those papers described by the hon. gentleman had in reality been always newspapers. The only additional hardship persons printing such papers were now subjected to was, that they must apply to a printer who had entered into recognizances. It had been said by an hon, member, that it was a new principle of our law to call on persons for securities against crimes with which they had been charged. Now, not only were there in the excise laws many instances similar to the present bill, but persons possessing boats or cutters of a certain description, which were supposed to give facilities for smuggling, were required to find bondsmen that they should not be employed in smuggling transactions. But there was a statute of Edward 6th, which had continued till George 2nd, when it was sanctioned and extended, which required all persons keeping alehouses to give surety for the keeping of order in their houses. The statute of Edward 6th required them to give their recognizances—the statute of Geo. 2nd required them to find two other sureties. He might mention the cases in the revenue laws, but this, which had so long formed a part of
1370The Attorney General
d. said, that a very large class of publications, entirely innoxious, would be affected by the law. Play-bills contained occurrences, and fell under the bill. Thousands of works, published at a few pence, would be loaded with this 4d.Mr. J. Smith
 was afraid the bill would affect some works published in the nature of Encyclopædias, in which articles on matters of church and state, merely historical, were inserted in some numbers.Mr. A. Wright
1d. asked, whether the apprehension was, that the first or the second part of the bill would apply to these works? If to the second, there could be no difficulty in the printers of such works finding securities as to the penalties applying to them. If the first was supposed to apply, viz. the stamp, the remedy was to bring them out monthly, or in numbers of a price above 61d.Lord Castlereagh
13721371 said, he was in hope, when the attorney-general rose, that he would have satisfied the hon. members for Nor-which and Oxford, by stating his intentions to introduce certain exemptions into the bill, which would have removed their objections to it. He was the more confident
13721371Mr. Marryat
1373 said, the suggestion of the hon. member respecting the exchange and shipping lists had been attended to, as an amendment was to be introduced to exempt them. The present bill was, however, in that part copied from the newspaper act, and included no papers of that kind which were not before subject to duty. As to the practice of requiring sureties, it was necessary to inquire what was the old law of the country, which had been eulogized by all constitutional writers, from sir E. Coke to sir W. Blackstone, and which had been recognized in Magna Charta, both as granted by king John, and as confirmed by Henry 3rd. No person was allowed to be in this country out of prison, who could not find a certain number of persons to be responsible for his good behaviour. This was a law enacted by a monarch who had never been mentioned but with eulogy,—Alfred. This law having been recognized in the charter, and in the confirmation of the charter, had only become obsolete through the change of circumstances in the country. He did not mention it as a law now generally applicable; but he deduced from it this,—that when a general law to such an extent had been eulogised by our best constitutional writers,—when the principle had been sanctioned in the case of the keepers of ale-houses, though with respect to the people at large the necessity which dictated the general law had ceased —that in a case in which the morals of the country were much more seriously affected
1373The Solicitor General
 said, that if this clause stood, and the noble lord should come to any unfortunate termination of his career, this bill would go to exclude the public from the benefit of his last dying speech and confession.Sir W. De Crespigny
 said, that he agreed with much of what had fallen from Mr. Marryat, and that in a future stage, he should move an amendment, for the purpose of exempting the class of publications alluded to by that hon. gentleman.Mr. T. Wilson
 said, that the case at Manchester, which had been referred to as sufficient reason for this clause, only proved that the magistrates had endeavoured to establish such a right as was now to be given to them, but had failed. Was the House, then, prepared to alter the law of the land merely to meet the view of those magistrates? The term "good behaviour" was extremely vague and indefinite, and the recognizance to that effect was the more unjust because it was unnecessary, as the persons who would be called to give it had already in the first instance given security of a pecuniary nature sufficient to answer all reasonable purposes.Mr. Denman
 remarked, that the clause was the more cruel, as it required the recognizance, not of a person convicted, but of one charged with a libel, though it might turn out that the charge was malicious or groundless.Lord A. Hamilton
l131913181317l1316 presented a petition from a great number of the booksellers and publishers of London, on the subject of the new duties proposed to be
l131913181317l1316Mr. J. Smith
 bore testimony to the high respectability of the petitioners, whose statements spoke too strongly for themselves to need the aid of his assertions. When it was considered that an attention to the ordinances of religion, and a care for the education of their children, had been among the marked characteristics of the Scottish population, the distress would be conceived to be severe which had compelled them to neglect these duties. That part of the country from which the petition came was in this respect peculiarly unfortunate, that having been the seat of flourishing manufactures, the persons once engaged in them were now thrown as burthens upon the landholders.Mr. Kennedy
 hoped his declaration would be effectual, when it was known that not a single contributor to the Friendly societies or Savings banks had ever been deprived of his money by government.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he anticipated no probability of any material deviation from the plan laid down by parliament in the last session.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1393 begged to remind an hon. gentleman opposite of a statement which he had made on a former evening respecting a clergyman who had preached a sermon at an Orange procession, calculated rather to inflame than to allay the passions of his hearers. He was not at that time acquainted with the circumstances which the hon. gentleman stated, nor did he know the name of the clergyman; but he had since received a letter from him, denying many of the circumstances mentioned, and declaring that the sermon which he had been requested to preach on that occasion, and which he had consented to preach as any other clergyman would have done in ordinary civility, was by no means of the tendency which had been represented. He mentioned the text from which he
1393Mr. Canning
1395 said, his majesty's government had not been inattentive to the distresses of Scotland, but they doubted whether they could take measures to relieve it by public money, without injustice to the whole empire. Cases of as severe distress had occurred in other parts, especially in England; and in the answer of the earl of Liverpool to the duke of Hamilton, the noble earl had stated that he saw no principle on which he could apply the resources of the country at large to the relief of that local distress. The proprietors of land in Scotland had the power, though they were not subjected to the obligation, of assessing
1395Lord Castlereagh
1396 alleged, that the pro-
1396Mr. Douglas
 disclaimed any wish to transfer the poor laws to Scotland; but he would repeat, that while the proprietors of England were incumbered with the poor's rate, in addition to their other burthens, it would be too much to expect that they should also contribute from their funds to the relief of the poor of Scotland, while the proprietors of that country were altogether exempt from the poor laws.Lord Castlereagh
 argued against the principle upon which it was proposed to accede to the prayer of this petition. The manufacturers and merchants of Scotland had, as well as the same classes in other places, materially profited from that monopoly of trade which Great Britain had enjoyed throughout the war. Those people, through whose labour that profit was obtained, were now distressed in consequence of the cessation of that monopoly; and was it fair, that instead of having their distress relieved by the capitalists whom they had enriched, that relief should be demanded from the public funds? He called upon the House to resist such a demand; any concession to it must serve to establish a most dangerous precedent.Mr. Maberly
 reminded the House, that during the discussions of last session, he had uniformly maintained, that the burgh of Aberdeen was not bankrupt. He could now prove that facts justified his opinion: Aberdeen was paying an interest of four per cent on all its debts, and in the course of a year five per cent would be paid up on the arrears of the two last years. The town of Aberdeen was considered good security, and most of its creditors would feel greatly disappointed were the debts paid off. He did not rise to oppose the motion, for as far as the labours of the first Committee went, they were as productive of as little evil as of good.Mr. Forbes
140514041403 rose, pursuant to notice, to move, "That there be laid before this House, a return of the number of persons liable to be struck off from the Chelsea Out Pension List, in consequence of His Royal Highness the Prince Regent's Proclamation, dated 28th October 1819; distinguishing those who originally enlisted for seven years under the Act 46 Geo. 3rd, whose time of service, according to engagement, has expired, and who are entitled under that act to certain pensions in consideration of wounds." His object in so moving was, to be enabled to move hereafter, for leave to bring in a bill to expunge so much from the act, commonly called the Chelsea Pension Act, as affected a certain number of persons now deprived;, unjustly as he conceived, of pensions intended for the reward of their service. He did this with the greater pleasure, not only as he conceived that his motion affected a strong subject of public inquiry, and a subject involving points of no small constitutional importance; but also, because it affected a class of persons, than whose claims, he would venture to say, on the justice, the sympathy, the humanity, and the gratitude of this country, it would be difficult to conceive any of a more sacred or imperious character. These men had come forward at the very time when it was found necessary to recruit the army by a new and invigorating system, in order to enable it to cope against a veteran and successful enemy. They had earned their well-contested glories, and had now retired on small but honourable pensions; which pensions, if the law had any power at all, the law of the land ought to establish as their property. He required parliament to look at their own acts, and to look at, what he thought, the illegal proclamation of October last. That proclamation; set forth, that all those persons (excepting certain regiments only from its operation) who should not report themselves for a certain length of service, should be deprived of the pensions which they then enjoyed. Now, there were many hundreds who, would be affected by this proclamation; particularly those (whose, claims he should support) who were originally destined for seven years service; and who, having received certain wounds, were entitled to certain pensions, settled: by the provisions of what was commonly called Mr. Windham's act. Such persons having received their discharges, and
1405140414031402Lord Nu-
1402
 said, the only question here was, what was the condition upon which the soldier enlisted? The regulations adopted by the officers of the Crown was, that a soldier, in order to entitle himself to the enjoyment of his pension, must render himself liable to be called upon to serve the three full periods of his enlistment, amounting to 21 years. These regulations were suggested by Mr. Windham himself; and if he had meant to come to a different conclusion, he would no doubt, have made his bill clearly intelligible. From the beginning, it was evident that Mr. Windham contemplated the securing of the service of the soldier for 21 years; and very few instances had occurred in which the soldier was disposed to question this proposition: on the contrary they were generally anxious to disguise their wounds, so that they might get into the veteran battalions.Mr. C. Long
 had to put a question to the chancellor of the exchequer, which, however ridiculous it might seem, was of great importance to the labouring population of Lancashire. It was reported amongst them that the government was about to seize the funds of the Friendly societies and Savings banks, and apply them to the payment of the national debt [a laugh]. This report had been caught up by persons little conversant in political matters, and had actually caused the breaking up of friendly societies, to the great loss of those who had claims on them. He was aware that it was impossible for the government to touch any of these funds, and that the report must have been circulated by designing persons. What, perhaps, enabled them to give currency to the report was, that in the last act for the amendment of the acts relating to Friendly societies, the money of these societies was directed to be lodged in the hands of the commissioners for the reduction of the national debt. He wished to hear a declaration on the subject from the authority which in that House was alone competent to give it.Mr. B. Wilbraham
1392 said, that even after the experience of the extent to which malignity and absurdity could go in the propagation of reports injurious to the administration, he had not been prepared for such a rumour as that alluded to by the hon. gentleman. It was utterly groundless; there was not the smallest foundation for it, either in fact or possibility. Under the authority of parliament, the money belonging to Friendly societies and Savings banks was kept entirely apart from the public money; and
1392The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 moved the second reading of the Blasphemous and Seditious Libel bill.Lord Castlereagh
14161415ex parte felt much diffidence in addressing the House upon this subject. His diffidence was increased by the consciousness, that he could not add any thing to the unanswered and unanswerable arguments already urged from his side of the House against these measures. He trusted, however, that as he did not often, claim the indulgence of the House, he should experience it upon the present occasion. He protested against the whole of the system of measures of which this however appeared to him to be the most objectionable. Although he would admit some of those measures to be locally and temporarily necessary, yet he could not help thinking that the whole, brought forward and supported as they were, formed the most alarming attack ever made by parliament upon the liberties and constitution of the country. Here he must say, in reference to what he considered as the source and cause of all the measures brought forward—he meant the proceedings at Manchester—with respect to those proceedings, all he heard in that House only strengthened his previous conviction that inquiry, rigid and impartial inquiry, was loudly called for, and was indispensably necessary for the purposes of justice. The most positive assertions, and the most distinct offers of proof from his side of the House, were answered only by counter-assertions and by 14161415ex parteLord Ebrington
14181417 could not sufficiently express his surprise at the extraordinary conduct of ministers. He asked whether it was respectful to the House, whether it was respectful to the country, that this
14181417Colonel Davies
142714261425 appealed to the House, whether, in former discussions, a full opening had not been made, with respect to the nature and tendency of all the measures which had recently been brought before them; and amongst them,
142714261425Lord Castlereagh
, in explanation, defended the conduct of his hon. and learned predecessor in not pressing any more prosecutions immediately after the acquittals which had been alluded to.The Attorney General
1437 said, that the hon. and learned gentleman had that night, although in a tone very different from that of his hon. and learned colleague on a former evening, brought forward a charge against those who contributed to the relief of Mr. Hone. He had hoped, that after what had passed in that House from time to time, respecting the prosecution of that individual, it would not have been necessary for him to say one word upon the subject. He had thought it had been clearly understood, that whatever might be the opinion with respect to the conduct of government in that prosecution, there could be but one feeling of disgust with respect to the parodies in question. One of the hon. and learned gentlemen opposite had thought proper on a former occasion to say that it was owing to those who expressed their disapprobation of the prosecution of Mr. Hone, and who had contributed to the subscription for that individual, that blasphemy and sedition had since gone unpunished. He (the marquis of Tavistock) must request the indulgence of the House, while he stated shortly what the motives of his conduct had been. Having seen others not only not prosecuted, but loaded with honours and pensions, after having published parodies of a similar nature, only that they were in favour of the government; and having seen in the case of Mr. Hone, that if the parodies had not been against his majesty's government, we should not probably have
1437The Marquis of Tavistock
1440§14391438 observed, that he was so pointedly called upon by the speech of the noble lord and by that of the hon. member for Shrewsbury last night that he did not think he should discharge his duty to himself if he did not rise to offer an explanation of the language imputed to him. Three weeks had elapsed since he had made use of the expressions alluded to. They had occurred at the commencement of the debate on the present bills, and yet, strange to say, though the hon. member for Shrewsbury was present at the time (whether the noble lord was or was not he could not say), he had not ventured to bring forward the charge when what he (the solicitor general) had said was fresh in the recollection of the House, but had postponed doing so until an interval of three weeks had elapsed. He would dare any hon.
1440§14391438The Solicitor General
1435ex officio143414331432ex officio1431 observed, that the remarks on the course of proceeding adopted by his majesty's ministers, which had fallen from gentlemen on the other side, were well deserving of notice. They appeared to him to have arisen from a misunderstanding of what had formerly taken place. His noble friend had, on a former occasion, distinctly stated the nature of the alterations intended to be proposed in the committee, and therefore he thought the imputation of his hon. and learned friend, was without foundation. Still less founded was the assertion which his hon. and learned friend had made, that his noble friend, or any other of his majesty's ministers, or indeed any gentleman on that (the ministerial) side of the House, had treated the present as a frivolous measure. Measures connected with the state of the press had been insisted on by his majesty's ministers, as those of the utmost importance, and therefore deserving the most serious consideration of the House before they became the law of the land. When he recollected the manner in which the noble lord opened the present debate, and the speeches which were delivered by gentlemen on the other side of the House, they appeared to him directed to any thing rather than the matter immediately under discussion. They had again restated to the House the question at Manchester, and a sweeping condemnation of all those measures produced by it. Some allusions had been made to himself in the course of the debate, intending to provoke him to address the House, which he was always unwilling to do, unless his duty rendered it absolutely necessary. He rose last night to answer certain remarks which were then thrown out, but was on that occasion prevented from stating his opinion. The law, they were told, as it at present stood, was sufficient for the punishment of libel; and observations were made relative to the conduct of an hon. and learned friend of his, to whom he had unworthily succeeded. He begged to state to the House the circumstances in which his hon. and learned friend was placed, particularly in the year 1818, when no prosecutions were commenced. The observations which came from the other side of the House on this
1435ex officio143414331432ex officio1431The Attorney General
1445, adverting to the assertion of the hon. and learned gentleman who had just sat down, that no argument had been offered in support of this measure, observed, that no argument had been advanced against it. He would give a reason why he should most conscientiously vote for the bill. It had two objects—one to seize libels, and the other to send out of the country those who persisted in vilifying the civil and religious institutions. With respect to the parodies published by Mr. Hone, the House could not be unaware of their mischievous tendency. The impression against them would however, he believed, be still stronger, if the mode of their distribution were fully made known, for that would naturally increase the alarm which the currency of such publications was calculated to produce in every religious, considerate mind.—Where would the House suppose he first saw these parodies? It had pleased God to bless hint with a large family and he actually found one of these profane and impious libels in the nursery of his children! He must, however, do justice to the young folks; who said that the jokes were very good; but very shocking. Parliament
1445Colonel Wood
1401 rose to move for the re-appointment of the Committee to inquire into the state of the Scotch Burghs. He understood, that no opposition on the part of ministers was intended to the motion. The only alteration he should propose, was, to substitute, in the place of a gentleman who was not likely to attend, another hon. member. The report that was made by the former committee, was before the House, and he could appeal to it, as confirming, every observation he had ever uttered on the subject. The abuses proved to exist, were so gross, so perpetual, and he might say, so flagitious, that nothing but an investigation into the causes could provide a remedy. These abuses sprung from the practice of self-election in corporate bodies endowed with the power of perpetuating the abuse. When he had introduced the subject first to the consideration of the House, it was retorted upon him, that whatever he might profess, his object was parliamentary reform. He repeated now what he then stated, that neither himself nor the petitioners from the Royal Burghs sought parliamentary reform directly, although neither he nor they disguised from the House, that any alteration in the burghs must collaterally and in a small degree affect the representation in that House. If parliamentary reform grew out of the change, it would do so collaterally, and not directly. The strength of the existing abuses were fully illustrated in the fact, that three most
1401Lord A. Hamilton
1400l., on moving that the petition should be printed, stated, that it was a mistake to suppose, that there were no poor's rates in Scotland, those rates being very considerable, although there were no poor laws in that country. But even if the system of poor laws were established in Scotland, were gentlemen aware that there were no less than between 20 and 30,000 persons in Glasgow who were not natives of that country, and how were those persons to be relieved? The Chancellor of the Exchequer had last year obtained from parliament the grant of 100,0001400l.Lord A. Hamilton
1394 said, the House were so often under the painful necessity of hearing of the distresses of the country, that he felt divided between the aversion to occupy their time, and the sense of duty to the county he represented. The petition which he had to present came from the presbytery of Hamilton, and gave the details of the misery and degradation of a large portion of that county. It was from a body of men who seldom approached that House—a presbytery, which consisted, as gentlemen acquainted with Scotland knew, of the clergymen of several parishes (in this case of 14). The petitioners stated, that according to the rules of the church government of Scotland, it was their duty to inquire into the state of their flocks. That they found that the wages of a labouring man were not sufficient to maintain a family—that
1394Lord A. Hamilton
 animadverted upon the declaration of the noble lord, that government was ready to lend money for the relief of the people, provided security were given for its repayment. But when the noble lord made this proposition, he would ask, whether it was possible that he or any reasoning man thought that the present distress was merely temporary? For his own part, he believed that this distress, so far from being temporary, was increasing every day; and he was persuaded that it must continue to become still worse, unless measures were promptly taken to relieve the trade and finances of the country. He hoped that before the recess the House would have some opportunity of delivering an opinion upon these important topics, and especially upon that of finance. The House might go on in passing coercive measures to meet the effect of the present system, but these were only temporising expedients, and unless the great questions to which he had referred, should be gone into, parliament would have closed its present sittings without having done any good. They might think that they had removed alarm, but let it be recollected that the evil which gave rise to alarm—that the distress and discontents of the people, still remained.Mr. Ellice
14141413141214111410 rose to oppose the measure. This bill, he said, had now arrived near its last stage, and still the discussion on its principle had not taken place. No gentleman on the other side came forward to defend it against the objections which had been stated to it. At first, when it was proposed to discuss it on the second reading, the noble lord opposite had wished the debate to be postponed to a future stage; that stage was now past, and the discussion of the principle of the bill was deferred till the third reading. He rose to oppose the bill, because, both as taken by itself, and as composing a part of the system of measures which was introduced along with it, it appeared to him as one of the most vital importance, affecting the liberties and constitution of the country—a measure, not calculated to call forth declamations, but to be opposed as effecting a change in the practical privileges and rights of the people. This was not like the Seditious Meetings bill, of a temporary nature, but was intended to be permanent, and could only be defended on one of two grounds—either that the freedom of the press had been at all times an evil that required correction; or that it was a privilege which, though good in itself, we were now unworthy of enjoying. Now, so far was the first of these positions from being true, that it might on the contrary be proved that it was productive of great practical good; that ever since the Revolution, its tendency had been to preserve order and to ensure good government; and that nothing had operated so much to prevent troubles, or even a total dissolution of the government. This might be illustrated by recurring to times anterior to the Revo-
14141413141214111410Mr. Primrose
1424** said, that in opposing the haste with which the present measure was attempted to be forced through the House, he was only actuated by a sincere desire to perform a great public duty. He was sure the noble lord would do him the justice to say, that during the whole course of these proceedings, he had not endeavoured to retard their progress by a factious or vexatious opposition. The present bill, however, which was most novel in its provisions, was not brought forward as the other measures had been; and he conceived he was not asking too much, when he called on ministers not to press it before the Christmas recess, but to pause until they met again after the holidays. The noble lord, it seemed, was not disposed to accede to that proposition. Since that was the case, he would make his appeal to other gentlemen in the House, who, though they might approve of the measure, were not quite so eager to have it immediately disposed of. They perhaps, would agree to his proposition, which he declared, in all sincerity of heart, was not intended to impede the course of proceedings which government recommended for adoption, but was meant to afford a proper opportunity for due deliberation on one of the most important subjects that was ever brought before the legislature. Many gentlemen were, he knew, willing to give a certain degree of confidence to ministers; but he believed no member of any administration, before the present period, ever thought of introducing a bill from the other House of Parliament, containing the most important enactments, without feeling the propriety of opening, distinctly, his view of the subject, and stating the necessity in which the measure originated. He was quite sure, that, in another place to which a bill passed in that House had been sent, some of his majesty's ministers deemed it their duty to state the grounds on which the measure had been introduced, and
1424**Mr. Tierney
 expressed himself obliged to the right hon. gentleman for the opportunity afforded him of removing any erroneous impression which he might have been the means of occasioning. In the report which had been given of his speech on the night to which the right hon. gentleman alluded, he had seen many things which he did not state. He had been made to say, that the procession went to church bearing effigies, with the insignia of a pope and a bishop; that on their arrival at the church, they stripped the effigies of their robes, and threw them into the fire; and that then a clergyman preached a sermon which was nothing less than sedition. Now, he stood in the judgment of the House, whether he had said this. As to his having charged the clergyman with preaching sedition, all he had said on that subject was—"I conceive a sermon preached under such circumstances, to be sedition against man, and blasphemy against God." He was quite ready to admit that this clergyman, or any other who acted as he had done, thought he was doing right, but still he must disapprove of his conduct.Mr. Bennet
 observed, that this was not the only time when such reports had been circulated. When the education committee was sitting, it was asserted that its intention was to seize all charitable funds, and to turn the two universities into charity schools. He was afraid that the declaration of the chancellor of the exchequer would not be effectual, as he had had an example of the inefficacy of facts or reason on such reports, in the case he had alluded to.Mr. Brougham
 said, that it might be also said, in the way of consolation, to the people in Lancashire, that they need be under no alarm as to the paying off the national debt with the money of Savings banks, for that no money would be applied to that purpose at all. Till the last year there had been a sinking fund of fifteen millions; now there was only nominally a sinking fund of five milllions; and that would probably fall so much short by the deficiency of the revenue, that nothing at all would be applied to that purpose.Mr. Calcraft
 concurred with the noble lord, that as this was a question between England and Scotland, it would be unfair to burthen the proprietors of the former for the relief of the poor of the latter, especially as the proprietors of Scotland were exempt from the poor laws, through the mal-administration of which the people of England suffered so severely. But while he deprecated the mal-administration of this system, he begged to be understood as a decided advocate for the principle of the poor laws. If any proposition should be made for the repeal of those laws he would stand up as its opponent. For he was quite convinced of the equity of the principle of those laws, however he lamented their improper administration, and especially the misappropriation of the funds collected by those laws in the payment of wages.Mr. Calcraft
 thought the question in this case was extremely narrow. The only point at issue was, what construction was to be put upon the words "the period of service for which they had been engaged." In his opinion, if a man enlisted for seven years, that was the period of his engagement; and if he became entitled to a pension during that period, the Crown had no right to call for his services any longer.Mr. Calcraft
 said, that with regard to the question of pensions for length of service, it clearly appeared that the soldier was subject to the conditions laid down in the regulations adopted by the Crown. The same rule, however, did not apply to that class of persons who received pensions for wounds. In the former case, the words of the regulation were, that they should only receive their pensions on the condition that when called upon they should complete their service for their three full periods; in the latter, however, the words were that they should "complete their service for the period for which they had been engaged." In these regulations, therefore, there was a marked distinction, and he apprehended if a man had only engaged for seven years, and received a pension for a wound obtained during that period, he would, according to the words of the regulation, have, to all intents and purposes, completed the period for which he had been engaged, and could not be compelled to serve longer than seven years.Mr. J. P. Grant
1397 said, the House had now before it a petition in favour of a number of industrious deserving manufacturers, which contained such a detail of calamity as could not be heightened either by the speech of his noble friend or by any colouring that eloquence could confer, and yet the noble lord gravely and coolly said, that neither parliament nor government could do any thing for the relief or mitigation of such calamity, beyond a certain sum that might be lent on security for its repayment. But how did it become the noble lord and his colleagues thus to reply to a petition concerning the distressed manufacturers, considering that the great cause of their misery was to be found in the policy which those ministers had been pursuing for a series of years? The noble lord had observed, that the Scotch proprietors should show an adequate sympathy for their poor countrymen, before they applied to that House for pecuniary relief, especially as those proprietors had a power of levying taxes upon themselves. This sympathy, he would tell the noble lord, had been evinced by the Scotch proprietors, who had levied taxes upon themselves for the relief of their poor; but the fact was, that the property which they possessed was not sufficient to afford the amount of relief required. But, independently of the taxes paid in common by these proprietors, each was found as beneficent as his means qualified him towards his distressed neighbour. It came to his knowledge, that the relation of an hon. friend of his, who was a member of that House, allowed, out of his own private purse, no less than eight pounds a week for the relief of the poor in his immediate vicinity.
1397Mr. J. P. Grant
1423 could not avoid expressing his surprise at the very extraordinary conduct pursued by his majesty's ministers, relative to the progress of all the measures they had proposed since the meeting of parliament. He could see no reason to justify the precipitancy with which they were hurrying bills through the House, which went to shake the foundation of English liberty. He hoped, however, the manner in which they were passed, would have its due impression with the country, and that such members as were not devoted to the Treasury, would pause before they sanctioned proceedings of the most indecent and unnecessary description. In proposing a bill which went, be-
1423Mr. J. P. Grant
 expressed a desire to see the bill pass with all due expedition. He held in his hand a letter from Ireland, stating, that several emissaries had appeared in the western counties, organizing the people, whose machinations ought to be checked.Mr. R. Martin
 observed, that the noble lord, in moving for the renewal of the Committee, had said a great deal, of which he (Mr. D.) had never heard before, and which was not in any degree confirmed, even by the luminous report of the last committee. As to the election of Edinburgh, the only question arose from the chance absence of one of the magistrates. The noble lord had stated the Burgh of Aberdeen to be bankrupt; that he denied, and dared him to the proof. The noble lord had that night struggled to show, that parliamentary reform was not his object; he believed the noble lord before to feel that parliament would not suffer those corporate rights, guaranteed by the articles of the Union, to be shaken. All that could be expected was, to replace the boroughs in the state in which they stood previously to that compact, so that no burgess should be made liable to debts, over which he had no control.Mr. W. Dundas
 explained. He had expressly referred to the papers on the table as containing proofs of his assertion. The magistrates of Chester had said that the facts could be verified on oath.Mr. Money
1419 said, he cordially assented to all the measures proposed as calculated for the protection of our religion and our liberties. He trusted that the whole had not yet appeared of the measures prepared for stemming and turning the tide of blasphemy, which was now poured into some of the most populous, and hitherto some of the most religious parts of the country. A right hon. and learned gentleman had stated, in a speech at distinguished for piety as for eloquence, that blasphemers carried their pernicious industry so far as to convey their poison to the minds of youth by means of primers and catechisms. Of this fact, too, there was abundant proof. The magistrates of the county of Chester stated in the papers on the table, that blasphemy and sedition were taught in schools where thousands were educated. The grand jury of the same county declared that the holy scriptures were reviled and laughed at, and audaciously represented to the people as false, by blasphemers, who thus deprive the people of all the moral restraints, and all the hopes and comforts of religion. The earl of Glasgow also stated, that most active endeavours were made to instil the most poisonous principles, and to eradicate every principle of religion from a district once the most religious. A gentleman, much experienced in the knowledge of mankind, and well known to that House, had said, that it was one of the worst symptoms of the age, that sedition was conveyed to the child with his lesson. That an early and effectual antidote to this evil was necessary all must admit. It was the bounden duty of the House to extend a moral and religious education to every part of the country. The tax on cheap publications, as it would diminish the sale of them, would in so far diminish the evil which they were the means of inflicting on the country. But there were other publications, on which some restraint ought to be laid—he meant Sun-
1419Mr. Money
142214211420 could assure the hon. gentleman who had just sat down that he would agree with him if he could prove his case. Those who knew him best, would as little suspect him of blasphemy, sedition, and impiety, as the hon. member. If he saw any reason for believing what the hon. gentleman wished the House to believe, that there were schools in the country, in which sedition and blasphemy were taught, he would be as forward as the hon. gentleman for almost any measures. But the whole evidence was mere
142214211420Mr. William smith
 explained. He was aware of that; but he repeated that the assertions in those papers were too vague to be trusted.Mr. W. Smith
 hoped it was the impression upon every man's mind in this case, that some relief should be afforded to the poor people to whom the petition referred; for in a country where there was so much wealth, it would be quite inhuman to allow persons of this description to suffer absolute want. Were these poor persons among the disaffected, that might be a reason for feeling less sympathy in their favour; but even that would not justify the House in turning a deaf ear to their complaints. Here, however, those, for whom relief was supplicated were as remarkable for the propriety of their demeanour, as for the severity of their sufferings. There was, no doubt, a material difference between the situation of England and Scotland, in consequence of the application of a portion of the poor's rate in this country to the payment of wages: but this application was one of the many evils belonging to the system of the poor's rates, to which system he hoped that House would devote its serious attention; for the evils of this system were of grievous magnitude.Mr. Wilberforce
1399 protested against the view which had been taken of this subject on both sides of the House. He protested, in the first place, against the observation of his hon. friend, that this was a question between England and Scot-
1399Sir J. Mackintosh
143014291428 said, he had entered the House with expectations of a very reasonable kind— expectations which, reasonable as they were, he was sorry to perceive were likely to be disappointed. He had entered the House with the expectation that those who proposed an innovation in the criminal law of the country—an innovation affecting the most important of all the constitutional rights of Englishmen—a law against the freedom of the British press—would show some reason for such a proceeding, before they called upon the House to entertain the proposition; but the noble lord reversed the usual course of business, and argued, that gentlemen on that (the Opposition) side of the House should state their objections to the measure. To state their objections to the measure! To offer arguments against that in support of which 110 argument had been offered! In his opinion, every individual who agreed to this proposition without full explanation from those by whom it was introduced, would make himself a party to an outrage against the constitution—would become a party to a precedent of the most scandalous and reprehensible nature. Surely it could not be argued, that because the bill came from another place, it was therefore to be adopted here, on a simple proposition to that effect. It was a measure of the highest possible importance, and before the second reading was moved, its nature should have been fully described to the House. He hoped the circumstances would be recollected by the House and
143014291428Sir James Mackintosh
 rose to explain. He said he had been misunderstood. He intended to distinguish, and he thought he had distinguished prevention by previous restraint from prevention by punishment and example. His hon. and learned friend, had told them, that banishment was not a new punishment. He (sir J. Mackintosh) had merely stated, that it was a punishment not now existing as applicable to offences of the press.Sir James Mackintosh
1444ex-officio14431442l.1441 allowed that he never had heard that his hon. and learned friend was a member of any political society, or that he was connected with any political body. All that could be said was, perhaps, that his hon. and learned friend now entertained opinions different from those he had formerly expressed, respecting his present associates; but there was nothing wonderful in this; it was natural that we should like people better the more we became acquainted with them. The very apprehension of being thought inconsistent would excuse some warmth—a warmth which seemed to verify the old proverb, "That proselytes were generally enthusiasts." That it was not intended to discuss this bill was manifest, for the gentlemen on the other side had not advanced any argument in support of it; he had heard no indication of their sentiments, except a scoff or a laugh, which was not an argument. With respect to the particular question, whether or not there had been a due activity in the prosecution of libels, he must say that he did not think the reasons urged by the other side in defence of their declining to prosecute were of sufficient weight. He meant to say nothing unkind of individuals, for whom he felt great respect, and of the purity of whose motives there could be no question, but it was his duty to state his opinion freely. When he spoke of individuals in public stations, he must be understood as speaking of nothing but errors in judgment, of a relaxation in some cases, and too severe activity in others. He would, take up the conduct of the law officers of the Crown since the year 1811, and he would say he was one of those who thought that the activity exercised at that period called for animadversion. Every body knew, that in prosecuting for libel, persons might sometimes be convicted who were not in any way chargeable with moral guilt. He had been present on one occasion at the time to which he had just alluded, when twenty people were
1444ex-officio14431442l.1441Mr. Scarlett
 suggested, that to secure the payment of the interest of the proposed loan, a new toll should be imposed on the roads in the district to which that loan was to be granted.Mr. V. Blake
 hoped that the political economists, who had ridiculed the plan he had proposed for examination (that of Mr. Owen), would think of some practical means of relieving the poor.Sir W. De Crespigny
1408 perfectly agreed in the construction put upon the first part of this act by the noble secretary at war; namely, that where pensions were granted to soldiers for length of service, the Crown had a right to call for their ser-
1408Lord Althorp
1436 said, that as allusion had been made to him, he thought it necessary to rise in order that he might state to the House the grounds on which he had objected to the prosecution of Mr. Hone. His objections to that prosecution arose from the circumstance of the hon. and learned gentleman who then held the office of attorney-general, having appealed from one jury to another, with the view
1436Lord Althorp
corps de reserve14071406║ objected to the shape in which the noble lord had brought forward his motion. The paper which he had called for was not that which was necessary for his purpose. He was very willing, however, to meet the noble lord upon the principle of this bill. Its intention evidently was, to enlarge the military force of that day, by holding out farther inducements to recruits. The noble lord thought that this bill gave a permanent and indefeasible right to the soldier to enjoy his pension, under whatever circumstances he might have received it. This was not the case, nor had such a regulation ever been contemplated by Mr. Windham: all the law did was, to create a right under certain conditions, which conditions or regulations were reserved for the Crown to make. What were the words of the act? With regard to the 5th section, it did not bear at all upon this question. The only meaning of the 5th section was, that men, who entered the service under certain regulations should not be deprived of the benefit arising from those regulations by the Crown, at any subsequent period. In short, it went to secure to the soldier the benefit of the regulation which existed at the time of his enlistment. But the third section was that on which the question turned. The 3rd section said, "that from and after the passing of the act, &c, any soldier shall be entitled to his discharge by reason of the expiration of the period of service, fixed in the orders and regulations of his majesty's government;" leaving it in the power of the king to fix the period of service: and it further provided "that men so discharged should be entitled to receive such pensions, allowance, or relief, as should be fixed in the orders and regulations in such cases respectively." These words he apprehended, did not give a perpetual right to
corps de reserve14071406║Lord Palmerston
, after he had moved for sundry accounts relative to the revenue, which were ordered, next moved "That there be laid before this House, an account showing how the sum of five millions, voted for the purpose of paying off debt due to the Bank of England on the 5th July 1819, has been applied, distinguishing the dates of the different payments."Mr. Maberly
1453l.l.l.1452l.,1451l.l.l.l.;l said, that the hon. gentleman had framed a series of motions calculated to produce a view of the state of the consolidated fund, and also to bring before the House an account of the progress made in the repayment of the advances of the Bank, in consequence of the measures adopted last year for a resumption of cash payments by the Bank. With regard to the first object, he had no objection to bring it in the clearest manner, and to the latest date, before the House. The justice of incredulity, as to the expectations he had held out, would be seen by the result. Rumours and surmises of every kind had been in circulation on the subject. The House was well aware that there had been a considerable falling off in the quarter ending the 10th of October last, as compared with the same quarter in the preceding year. The chief deficiency, which had occurred in the customs, amounted to above 916,5871453l.l.l.1452l.,1451l.l.l.l.;lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
1448 said, that the facts of the case were very different from the representation of the petitioner. In May, 1812, the petitioner had been apprehended, not by colonel Fletcher, but by another magistrate, for giving as a toast "the death of the King." While he was detained for that offence, colonel Fletcher received a letter from Mr. Graham, inclosing another from the deputy inspector of hulks at Portsmouth, with an affidavit made by John Harper, a convict, that three years before, about the time Mr. Chadwick of Beech-hall, was murdered, the deponent returning from market heard two men at a little distance from the road ill-treating another. The two men were John Lever and A. Gordon. They threatened the deponent, that if he told what they had done, they would serve him the same. He was terrified and went on his knees, and promised never to speak a word of it. He afterwards received a present of a suit of clothes from Lever. Mr. Fletcher finding that the relations also entertained suspicions, very properly committed Lever; but about the time of the trial, it was found that the relations would not prosecute, the evidence being insufficient, and merely resting on the assertion of the convict, for whom it would have been necessary to have procured a free pardon before his testimony could have been received. Yet it was not on this account to be expected that be should not be tried for the former offence, and he was accordingly brought to trial, found guilty, and sentenced to a year's imprisonment. The House must feel in its justice, that it was rather a hard case to
1448Mr. B. Wilbraham
l.1459ad valoreml.l.l.,l.l.l.l.,l. begged to ask the right hon. gentleman, whether he did not consider this as a matter of finance? Whether the principle, upon which the act of parliament directed the repayment of 5,000,000l.1459ad valoreml.l.l.,l.l.l.l.,l.Mr. Maberly
 then moved for "an account of all Exchequer Bills received in payment of duties between the 1st of July and the 21st of December, 1819." The Chancellor of the Exchequer moved, by way of amendment, the insertion of the words, "10th of October," in the place of "21st of December." After a short conversation, the House divided on the motion that the "21st of December" stand part of the question: Ayes; 30; Noes, 90. The main question, as amended, was then agreed to.Mr. Maberly
1460 said, he had this day conferred with some news-paper venders, and proprietors of news-papers, residing in different parts of the country, and they all agreed that some of the clauses would materially affect those employed in vending cheap publications. They were men of small capital; and the clauses, if severely executed, would be the ruin of them; that which required them to find security would
1460Mr. Bernal
14651464146314621461 said, he would make no apology for rising on the same side immediately after his hon. friend, as it seemed to be the system adopted by the gentlemen opposite, to allow those upon his side of the House to go on speaking one after the other, till somebody on the opposite benches might think it convenient to answer. In looking at the measure before the House, it was impossible not to remember a declaration of the noble lord, that it was not his wish to establish a censorship of the press, as if a member of the Crown thought it necessary to disclaim having entertained a proposition from which our ancestors—he did not mean those of Alfred's days, with whom we had very little in common, but those of later date would have revolted with horror.—Perhaps, however, ministers did not go so far as other members of the House in supporting arbitrary principles; for while one hon. gentleman had held that the freedom of the constitution ought to be abridged, another (the hon. member for Corfe-Castle) had said, that Mr. Justice Blackstone had become an obsolete writer. Notwithstanding the awful authority, however, of the member for Corfe-Castle, he must venture to differ from him on that head. He considered the very learned and admirable writer in question of the highest authority, and reasonably held him in that estimation to which his celebrated work entitled him But if these measures were to be still pursued; if the system which was prepared by the noble lord a few weeks ago were yet to go on, he must certainly think the Commentaries of Mr. Justice Blackstone on the law of England were indeed about to be laid on the shelf, as hostile to the state of things which those measures and that system were calculated to produce. He did not know whether the Attorney-general and the Solicitor-general meant to favour them with a new set of institutes of the constitution which they had promulged; but if the progress of arbitrary legislation were to go on with the same fearful rapidity with which it had advanced since the House re-assembled, he was afraid that the sheets of their work would be scarcely dry
14651464146314621461Mr. George Lamb
1466 said, that parliament ought not to surrender the liberties of the people permanently to a temporary alarm. It had hitherto been the glory of the English press that it had no previous censorship, but this boast it was now called upon to surrender. Before ministers asked for new powers by this extraordinary measure, they were bound to show that the existing laws were insufficient to suppress the evil complained of after having been duly carried into execution. He was willing as well as the other gentlemen on that side of the House, to sanction measures for the establishment of tranquillity, and he had no objection to the imposition of a tax on some publications, provided the liberty of the press would not be destroyed by the remainder of the Bill. He blamed the government and the law officers of the Crown, for declining to bring on more prosecutions, in consequence of the acquittal of Hone. He must connect the present bill with the other measures which had been brought forward by ministers; and in his mind the system taken as a whole, created more grounds of alarm than the state of the country which it was intended to meet, alarming as that was. In order to see the intentions of ministers, the bills should be considered as they were originally introduced, and not as they were subsequently modified. The honourable gentleman then went over the changes made in the traverse-bill, the seditious meetings bill, the blasphemous libel bill, and the bill now before the House; and contended that their original severity showed the conviction of ministers, not that the power of the Crown should be reduced, but that the influence of the people should be reduced. It had been well said by Montesquieu that the existence of freedom in England mainly depended on the right of petition by public meetings, and the freedom of the public press. How alarming was it to see the former nearly annihilated by the bill for preventing meetings, and the latter about to fall under the enactments of the measure now in progress. He besought the House to weigh well the consequences which would attend the present bill before it gave it its sanction. At least it ought to be rendered temporary. The sentiments which he had uttered were those of
1466Mr. Pryce
1467 said, he could not refrain from delivering his sentiments on that part of the bill which required recognizances and securities, convinced as he was that it must be ruinous to a useful body of men. Some objections to it were so evident that they met every eye, and yet no necessity had been shown for enacting it. He himself had at one time great apprehensions from the blasphemous and seditious press, but his mind was set at rest on the subject by the speech of an hon. and learned gentleman last night, who had proved that juries were not unwilling to convict when the prosecution was judiciously commenced, and the trial properly conducted. That speech remained unanswered, and appeared to him unanswerable. That the law-officers of the Crown had not tried the strength of the existing laws, as they ought to have done, before they demanded an alteration of them, was evident from events that came under his own observation. Nothing could exceed his surprise at reading an account of the Smithfield meeting of July last, and at finding that the chairman was not prosecuted for the language of the resolutions signed by him. By one of these resolutions the persons who concurred with the chairman declared that they would not obey the laws beyond the beginning of next year; by another, that they would not pay taxes beyond a certain period; and by a third, that the national debt was a swindling concern on the part of the House of Commons, and ought not to be liquidated. He took it for granted, as he just then arrived in town, that the individual who presided at the meeting, and whom he had never seen in his life, would be brought to trial, and that he then should see him. He concluded that the law could not be allowed to sleep, and that the only question would be, whether the language was merely seditious or not also treasonable. Certain it was that no government could long exist which allowed any portion of the people to pass such resolutions. He really believed that if a prosecution had been immediately instituted against the parties to the Smithfield meeting, the late fatal occurrences at Manchester might never have taken place. Why was not the law enforced, and offenders brought
1467Mr. J. Smith
imprimatur.1468 had conscientiously supported his majesty's ministers in passing the bills, which the necessities of the country required to be passed at this important time, and for that reason he would state why he would support them on the present occasion. The press, like other things, was a good or an evil, as it was well or ill employed. The freedom of the Press was productive of benefit, while, on the other side, its licentiousness tended to the injury of the state. All infractions of the law required to be punished, but chiefly infractions of the law on the part of the press, which, instead of breaking the law, ought to labour for its being properly obeyed. Some additional measure of this kind, he thought, was called for by the extensive spread and incalculable multiplication of blasphemous and seditious works. This increase he attributed in part to the effect of Mr. Hone's acquittal. That acquittal excited alarm among all the friends of religion and order, and encouraged a noxious brood of scribblers to proceed with greater audacity, and to scatter their venom through the land. The measures
imprimatur.1468Mr. Cooper
l.,1470║l.;1469 agreed with the member who had just sat down, that no measure was of more importance than that which went to regulate the freedom of the press. He agreed likewise with the hon. gentleman, that when publication without previous censorship was allowed, the person who published ought to be liable to all the consequences of his own act. This was the law of the land at present. It had been acted upon and found sufficient in the best periods of our history. The only question between him and the gentlemen opposite was, whether the existing law was now sufficient to restrain the licentiousness of the press, without any new enactment. He complained of the increase of blasphemous and seditious libels as much as any of those who supported the bill. Indeed, he might ask, did any one in the House defend that tainted part of the press? All that he called upon the supporters of the bill for was, to show that the law, as it had existed for 120 years, was now insufficient to correct the evil of which he as well as they complained.
l.,1470║l.;1469Mr. Calcraft
14791478§147714761475l.l.,1474147314721471 had the strongest objections to the temporary duration of this bill, and especially to the duration for the short period of one year. If the House could really consider the provisions of this bill as destructive of the liberty of the press, he should be prepared to admit, that whatever the present exigencies of the country might be, it ought to be merely temporary. It was his opinion, however, that there was not a single clause in this bill which could be rationally considered, as an invasion of the liberty of
14791478§147714761475l.l.,1474147314721471Lord Castlereagh
14941493149214911490148914881487148614851484148314821481ex officio1480 rose with extreme reluctance and solicitude, to deliver his sentiments on the question now before the House. His great wish, on this occasion was, if possible, to limit the duration of the bill. The observations which he should have the honour to address to the House would have that object, and that object only. He would not be tempted, by the example of the noble lord, to enter into a discussion of the general system of measures which were now in progress through parliament. If he had been in health, he would have taken the proper time for that purpose. But he feared the time for
14941493149214911490148914881487148614851484148314821481ex officio1480Sir James Mackintosh
150115001499149814971496imprimatur,1495 congratulated the House on having at length heard, in the long-expected, and not too much to be admired, speech of his hon. and learned friend, those reasons against the system of measures proposed by his majesty's government, which up to that period had not, he thought, been fully stated to the House. In many, perhaps most of the general principles laid down and enforced by his hon. and learned friend, he entirely concurred. But he thought the whole scope of his argument would go, not merely to the present measures, but to any possible restraint by which the complete and unfettered freedom of the press might be affected. Yet even in that principle, as a principle he was not inclined to differ from his hon. and learned friend; for he thought with respect to the press as with every other part of human freedom, that it was a matter of regret when the legislature was forced to interfere. It certainly was a matter of great regret, when to existing restraints, they were obliged to add others not hitherto enacted; and he considered that the justification of the original, or the augmented restraint, was only to be found in the necessity, or high expediency of the case—not in the value of the rights of any set of individuals, but by a comparison of their rights, with the rights and interests of the community of which they were members. It was one great beauty of the English law, that about small things it did not trouble itself. Much was left to the good sense and discretion of the community, and it was only when that good sense was overborne or laid aside, that legislation stepped in, for the purpose of securing those good manners and good morals which formed the cement of society. It undoubtedly was more desirable that they should be secured without positive enactments, but positive enactments were frequently absolutely necessary. His hon. and learned friend seemed to have adopted the idea, that up to this moment the press was that "chartered libertine," which it had been so eloquently described to be; and that this was the first time that parliament had touched the press; as if it did not live under restraints, which showed the impossibility of ascribing that principle of perfectibility to it which his hon. and learned friend had assumed. Whether it was or was not necessary to impose a new
150115001499149814971496imprimatur,1495Mr. Canning
, in explanation, disclaimed any such confined and partial use of the term "people" as had been imputed to him by the right hon. gentleman. The people for whom he had addressed the House, and on whose behalf he had implored consideration and protection, were a part of the nation, born and nurtured under the constitution, and inheriting a right to its liberties and laws. The measures now under consideration would annihilate their rights. When this bill should pass into a law, the liberty of England would no longer exist.Mr. Denman
1510ultra-tory15091508150715061505l.l.,1504║l l.;15031502 remarked, that the right honourable gentleman having found the speech of his hon. and learned friend, to which he had professed his intention of replying if not unanswerable, rather dangerous to approach, had, by a species of tactics not unusual with him, flown off from it to other topics, and fastened upon a casual expression used by another hon. and learned friend of his, but not meant in the sense attached to it by the right honourable gentleman. Yet to this casual expression the splendid part of the right hon. gentleman's speech exclusively applied.—
1510ultra-tory15091508150715061505l.l.,1504║l l.;15031502Mr. Brougham
potestas faciendi quicquid leges, licet; said, that every person who had heard the hon. and learned gentleman who had just sat down, must be sensible that he owed it to himself and to the House, not to suffer the allusion which had been made to what had fallen from him on a former occasion to go unanswered. It was now nearly a month since he had taken the liberty of offering his humble sentiments on the situation of the country. At that distance of time he had made use of expressions, which, he ventured to say, had been that night most completely although he was sure not intentionally, misquoted. He would take the liberty of stating what he believed he had said, and thus the mistake which had arisen would be set right. He was first charged with having said, "that the conduct of magistrates ought not to be too critically inquired into." Now he begged permission so state, that at the time he made use of this expression, there was no appearance of an indemnity being asked for on the part of the magistrates, nor, as he was apprised, of any intention existing of screening them from the operation of the law as it affected their conduct. He conceived that their conduct was open to inquiry in the court of King's-bench, and he did say, that it was inconsistent with the dignity of the House to stop short in the task which their public duty imposed upon them, for the purpose of critically inquiring into their conduct, and for parliament to exercise a degree of criticism which could not have been exercised in a court of justice. This was what he meant to say, and what, he believed, he had said. The next charge brought against him was, that he had looked for a definition of liberty among the records of the Roman empire, and in the Justinian code. He had defined personal liberty to be potestas faciendi quicquid leges, licet;Mr. Plunkett
. I did not say that you directly said so, but such an inference was deducible from your expressions.Mr. Brougham
15131512 resumed. He would now state what he did say on that occasion, he had said that an intensity of light (which he did not regret but rejoiced at) was thrown upon every subject for the last few years, that public curiosity, with respect to the affairs of government was excited to such a pitch, that the faculties of the great portion of the people were not sufficiently exercised to consider well and thoroughly—that therefore it was likely to lead them into error, and that it was the duty of parliament to see that good and wholesome food was administered to the minds of the people. His hon. and learned friend had said that he had charged some of the schools in England with teaching blasphemy and sedition. He admitted that he had said he believed blasphemous libels, which had been made the subject of public prosecution, had been formed into primers for the purpose of inculcating into the minds of children that description of pestilence. His hon. and learned friend had stated, that it was a mistake to say that any thing like blasphemous or seditious doctrines were taught in certain schools. But admitting the statement of his hon. and learned friend to be quite correct, would that serve to prove the fallacy of the information which he (Mr. P.) communicated to the House, upon a former evening? That information he still believed to be correct; and surely his hon. and learned friend was not prepared logically to maintain, that because he was acquainted with certain schools where no such mischievous system of education was admitted, that therefore this system was not pursued in any other schools. His hon. and learned friend's contradiction could not, indeed, be effective, unless it applied to the precise schools in which he (Mr. P.) had the best authority for stating, that instruction in blasphemy and sedition actually prevailed. But he had this evening had a letter put into his hands by a member of that House not then in his place, from which letter it appeared that the blasphemous doctrines which had of late been so widely circulated, and so justly censured, were inserted in primers, for the purpose of inoculating children in a particular school, the name of which he felt it would be in-
15131512Mr. Plunkett
15151514l.l., thought that his right hon. and learned friend when he complained of misquotation on the part of others, ought at least to have taken care not to fall into a similar error himself. He had insinuated, that all on that side of the House objected to this bill on account of the lower class of publications which were sold for two-pence being about to be placed in point of duty upon a footing with other newspapers. He would appeal to the House whether that construction of their arguments was not incorrect. So far from objecting to this equalization of duties, they had, and more especially himself, distinctly stated that they had no sort of objection to this part of the measure. But what was most extraordinary on the part both of his right hon. and learned friend and of the right hon. gentleman opposite was, that they had totally omitted what was the real objection to this bill, and that was the clause which called upon booksellers to enter into recognizances, in London of 60015151514l.l.,Mr. Tierney
 defended the law officers of the Crown from the charge preferred against them by an hon. and learned gentleman of having neglected their duty by permitting the most atrocious libellers to escape unprosecuted.The Attorney General
 was explaining, when he was called to order. If the House thought him not entitled to explain, he would make a motion—it was indifferent to him.Mr. Brougham
 rose to order. If the hon. and learned gentleman intended to frighten the House—Mr. Martin
 observed, that any hon. member in calling another to order, should be careful not to commit disorder himself. It was customary to allow hon. members to explain; but as it was matter of courtesy, the privilege ought to be used moderately.The Speaker
 supported his hon. friend's motion.Lord A. Hamilton
1458l.l.l. said, it appeared to him that the House would act very unwisely by interfering as to the arrangements entered into by government for the repayment of the 5,000,0001458l.l.l.Mr. Ricardo
l. believed that one of the greatest evils which lessened the confidence of the public in the resources of the country, and which gave rise to all those rumours that could not surely be of advantage to it was, the ignorance in which the public were kept with respect to the intentions of the chancellor of the exchequer. As to the manner in which the right hon. gentleman was to repay 5,000,000l.Mr. Kinnaird
1456l.l.1455l.:l.,ad valorem.1454† was surprised that the right hon. gentleman had assigned no better reasons for refusing the motion of his hon. friend. The statements he had
1456l.l.1455l.:l.,ad valorem.1454†Mr. Ellice
14471446 said, he had a petition to present from an individual, praying that the House would not entrust additional powers to magistrates, as he had suffered peculiar hardship from the exercise of that discretion with which they were now invested. The magistrate who was particularly referred to in the petition, was a colonel Fletcher, of Bolton. He should have hesitated to have received such a statement, if he had not inquired respecting the character of the petitioner, John Lever, and found that, though in a humble walk of life, he bore a good character.
14471446Mr. Bennet
1449 said, that the petitioner complained that, after having been confined for some time upon a charge of murder, he was tried only for a misdemeanor, of which he was convicted, mainly upon the evidence of two persons, who had been heard to threaten, that they would go to Lancaster for the purpose of "doing him." As to what the hon. member had said with respect to the lion's mouth at Venice, he should only observe, that he felt it his duty to prefer any charge which he believed to be true, against those who abused their power, for the purpose of oppressing the people. When parliament was about to invest the magistrates with new and extraordinary
1449Mr. Bennet
alibi, observed, that he recollected the trial of the petitioner in 1812, and perfectly remembered that the petitioner, who had been committed for a misdemeanor, was, before he obtained bail, detained upon a charge of murder, which detainer must have rendered it difficult for him to collect the materials for his defence. The petitioner was, it appeared, treated very harshly in the course of his imprisonment; but, notwithstanding all those circumstances, it was much to be regretted that this complaint should not have been preferred long since. For it was certainly a grievance to the accused, that it should have been deferred for seven years, as that must render it more difficult for him to make out the grounds of his vindication. But it was a strange fact, that notwithstanding the committal of the petitioner by the magistrate alluded to for murder, no bill was presented against him to the grand jury. The petitioner was, however, convicted of the misdemeanor for seditious words, which he uttered when half jocular and more than half in liquor. In consequence of this evidence, the judge charged in favour of the petitioner, but still he was convicted. He (Mr. B.) had, however, a much more extraordinary sample of the same jury at this assizes, for they, with express reluctance, acquitted thirty-eight persons who were charged upon the evidence of only one spy, whose evidence was contradicted by the most decisive proof of an alibi,Mr. Brougham
l.l.l.1457 considered this question as involving in it, in some measure, the discussion of the measures taken by the House for the resumption of cash-payments on the part of the Bank. It was on that occasion suggested, that some regulations should be imposed upon govern-
l.l.l.1457Mr. Grenfell
l.l.l.,l. said, that the consumption of tea had been considerably increased during the last year. It was certainly greater last quarter than during the corresponding quarter of last year: and if hon. gentlemen would look at the several quarters as compared with those of the two last years, they would still have reason to consider the revenue generally as improved. He thought it more fair and proper to take an average of two or three years, in these cases, than to refer only to a particular period. In regard to the produce of the new taxes, hon. gentlemen seemed to think that they ought to have brought more into the exchequer: they imagined that the gross sum of 3,190,000l.l.l.,l.Mr. Lushington
 said, that the House could not think of entertaining and retrying a case which had been already disposed of in a court of justice. As to the other part of the complaint, if the magistrate in question had misconducted himself, he could be severely punished by the law; and if the petitioner had received injuries, the law was open to him for redress.Mr. Huskisson
15271526 believed that abuses of the press existed to such a degree as required the interference of parliament He defended the clause of the bill which authorized a search for, and seizure of publications, adjudged to be libellous. This right of search existed to a greater extent, by the act of Charles the 2nd, and during the first six years of the reign of William the 3rd. He contended, that the right of
15271526Mr. Bankes
, in answer to what had fallen from the hon. member, referred the House to the statements which had been made by men of the most respectable authority, relative to the disturbed state of the western part of Scotland. He referred the House also to what had been said on the same subject by the hon. members for Renfrew and Lanarkshire. It was admitted generally, that great disaffection existed in that country. It was true, that the disaffected had availed themselves of the distress which existed, in order to work upon the minds of the people. So far had these evil minded persons succeeded, that a day was fixed for their rising. Was this, then, not sufficient to alarm the public mind? It was found necessary to take every precaution for the preservation of the public safety. The citizens of Edinburgh, therefore found themselves obliged to take arms in defence of their properties, their families, and all that was dear to them.Lord Binning
15491548154715461545 could assure his hon. and learned friend, that as far as it applied to him, there bad not been the slightest occasion for the apology which he had just offered to the committee. He never thought, and he was convinced the House, never thought, his speeches too long. There was no man to whom he listened with greater pleasure than he always did, to his hon. and learned friend, because, even when he could not come to the same conclusion, he always heard much to delight and much to inform him. However, much in general he concurred with him in matter of principle, and much as he in general approved of what fell from his, hon. and learned friend—if there was any, regret felt by him on this occasion, it was, that with that power of eloquence he so eminently possessed, he had taken a basis much too wide for the motion with which he concluded. And he could assure, his hon. and learned, friend, that he would, have come to the discussion with very different feelings, if he had not overlaid the motion by the earlier part of his speech, but had proposed the amendment without the general argument, which had added; much to the amusement of his speech, and much to his delight, but nothing to his conviction, and much he owned to his, alarm [Hear, hear!]. The amendment proposed might or might not be harmless. But, in calling upon those who proposed the present bills to state their reasons for them, in the alarming tone which his hon. and learned friend had used, he had imposed a task of awful magnitude upon those who differed from him in their political views. The alternative which his hon. and learned friend had pro posed to their acceptance was this—either that, they should surrender their liberties to some unknown, undefined, and invisible power, or else that they should acknowledge the supremacy of the daily press. To the latter, he, for one, could never assent: in spite of the obloquy which might attend the declaration he was, now going to make, he was determined, conscientiously to discharge his duty; and if the choice was, whether he was to sa-
15491548154715461545Mr. Canning
155215511550, said, that he ventured to address the committee with infinite disadvantage, after the splendid, succession of eloquence to which they had just listened. The right hon. gentleman had expressed his acquiescence in the first part of his hon. and learned friend's speech; in the latter part of that speech he must be excused by his hon. and learned friend for saying, that there appeared to be a little too much courting of the conductors of the daily press. He knew that his hon. and learned friend had no such intention. But that was, in any view of it, no argument for the dissent of the right hon. gentleman from the amendment. What was the real argument at issue? The amendment was offered as more applicable than the original passage in the bill to the purposes intended to be effected by the gentlemen on the other side and as leaving unaffected the daily press, which both his hon. and learned friend and the right hon.
155215511550Lord Folkestone
1559Ægida concuteret dextra, nimbosque cieret.Credunt se vidisse jovem; cum sæpe nigrantem—Arcades ipsum1558 said, that he would detain the committee but for a few moments. If ever he had risen with caution and apprehension, both as to the topic and as to the persons, whose arguments he had to combat, it was on the last occasion when he addressed them. He had been called on to do so by the nature of the speech which had been delivered by his hon. and learned friend. There were many members then in the House who, perhaps, had not been present when he last addressed the committee; but to those who were, he would appeal whether he had not correctly followed the statements of his hon. and learned friend. If he had not followed his hon. and learned friend throughout, he had, following his example in referring to the models of antiquity, commented upon his strong points, and upon those which had made most impression. If he had dwelt upon particular subjects, it was
1559Ægida concuteret dextra, nimbosque cieret.Credunt se vidisse jovem; cum sæpe nigrantem—Arcades ipsum1558Mr. Canning
1565 regretted with the
1565Lord Castlereagh
1567 observed, that this bill did not propose to create any
1567The Attorney General
 said, that the clause enacting the penalty of banishment on the commission of a second offence, as it now stood, was capable of being construed retrospectively; to obviate which, he should propose to introduce the words, "after the passing of this act."—The amendment was agreed to; after which he proposed, in order to avoid the consequences which the law attached to banishment for life, that the judge should be authorized to banish the delinquent for such term of years as to him might seem fit.The Attorney General
 avowed that it was not intended to abandon the principle of banishment for life in cases of aggravated guilt.The Attorney General
 submitted in the case of Mr. Carlile, who, in the face of the courts of the country, thought proper, after conviction, to persevere in selling the libels to which that conviction applied, whether on the second conviction of such a person it would be seemly or right to allow him to remain in the country?Lord Castlereagh
 said, that that fact was not known until after the appointment appeared in the Gazette, and he did not conceive that any grounds had been adduced on which he ought to have advised his royal highness to remove him.Lord Castlereagh
1568 begged those who defended this clause, on the ground that former statutes had authorized banishment, to reflect on the circumstances under which those statutes had been enacted. The 39th Eliz. had certainly introduced the punishment of banishment; but it had substituted that punishment for others of the most degrading kind. The class of offenders to whom that statute applied were, before its enactment, liable to be placed in the stocks, to have their ears cut off, to be branded on the forehead with the letter C, and to be made slaves for
1568Mr. G. Lamb
 suggested that the discretion of the judge should not exceed seven years.Mr. Brougham
 said, it was not to the appointment he had objected, but to the principle of continuing him after the fact of his connexion with the work in question was known.Mr. Brougham
toto cœlo15641563l.15621561voce signatum.1560 admitted the difficulty of taking the definition of his hon. And learned friend as to libel without the amendment, for one was inconsistent with the other. He would rather take the whole, or leave the bill as it now stood. His hon. and learned friend and the right hon. gentleman had certainly displayed very great eloquence; a considerable portion of which, however, had been expended in a kind of complimentary contest. In their episode, respecting each other they, to a by-stander, somewhat resembled two lovers who, after a quarrel agreed to meet and accommodate their differences. He certainly rather agreed with the observation of his noble friend that there was no necessity, as applied to the general argument, for, the introduction of part of what had fallen from his hon. and learned friend. Still however the argument of his hon. and learned friend was not (as he conceived it) that two classes of men should be distinguished, by the bill—
toto cœlo15641563l.15621561voce signatum.1560Mr. Brougham
15291528 said, he never supposed that the hon. member would oppose the spread of religion and morality.— He always thought the hon. member was a consistent supporter of the present measure, as he entertained doubts regarding the policy of extending that education, which he said put the country in a new situation, and thus rendered restrictions on the press necessary. The noble lord opposite had, on the contrary, denied that the bill was intended to meet a new condition of the country, arising from the diffusion of knowledge. For his own part, from all; the experience he possessed of the state of a part of the country where education was most generally spread, and all the reasoning he was capable of, he came to the conclusion, that education was an unequivocal blessing. Education might be productive of some evils, but its advantages incalculably predominated; for, the more the minds of the people were opened, the greater the extent of their information, the more likely they were to be moral, orderly, and religious; the better the peace of the country would be secured, and the greater would be the chance of stability to the government.— It had been the opinion of all parties, Whigs and Tories, that the liberty of the press was a blessing, till the introduction of these measures. He must say that the House was left in a singular situation in two respects; first, it was going into a committee on a measure, in support of which not one reason had been given by those who had introduced it; secondly, in being called upon to enact a new punishment, without having heard the consequences of it explained by the Attorney and Solicitor-general, who were bound to defend it. The consequences of banishment for life had not been explained;
15291528Mr. J. P. Grant
, in order to show the system of exaggeration which was practised in order to create alarm, mentioned some observations which were made in a Nottingham ministerial paper. It was there stated that himself and his colleague (lord Rancliffe) must be either grossly ignorant of the training which was practised at Nottingham, or that they wilfully withheld that information from the House. The magistrates, feeling anxious on this subject, directed the town clerk to write to the editor, calling upon him to come forward and make known the information of which he stated himself to be possessed. The editor waited upon the clerk, and Stated that he possessed no information of the kind, and that he was ready to retract all he had said in his next publication.Mr. Birch
1516ex post facto said, that his feeling of duty upon this subject was too strong to allow the present motion to be carried without entering his earnest protest against a measure which he conceived of the most noxious and dangerous character. This was, indeed, in his view, one of the most odious of the coercive measures which ministers had thought proper to obtrude upon parliament, with a view to reduce the liberties of the people. But there was one clause in this bill which he deemed peculiarly abhorrent to the genuine spirit of the English law, and to the liberal feelings of the English people. He meant that which authorised banishment. For a period of 200 years banishment was unknown to our law, except in 1516ex post factoMr. Bernal
 supported the bill. He would admit, as a general principle, that too great severity of punishment was not desirable. But the question naturally occurred, was the punishment beyond the guilt?—He did not think it was. Was the country to be left exposed to an inundation of blasphemous production, without taking any steps to oppose its course. No guilt could be much higher in degree, than that of the person who deliberately sent forth to the world publications calculated to corrupt the heart, to destroy every principle of religion, every source of happiness here, and of hope hereafter. This bill did not go to trench upon the just and true liberty of the press. After it passed into a law, it would be found that the press was just as unshackled as before. The freedom of the press consisted in the power of writing and publishing what it was fit and proper to write and publish, not in sending forth libels to sow disaffection, and preach up impiety. The peace of society, as well as of every individual, required that the press should be under the restraints of justice, good sense, and propriety. If there was no restraint upon the press, how easy would it be to ruin people in their fortune and reputation! A man would have nothing to do but get three or four dozen hand bills, and stick them about upon the walls. He knew a banker in Ireland that was treated in this manner. He was perfectly solvent, if he got time; but a report was circulated that he could not pay his notes; There was a run upon the bank; and the man was broke. Suppose for example Sake, that any person was maliciously disposed against alderman Birch, who made such excellent patties, and hand bills were sent about saying, that they were made of young children, dug out of the grave, and minced up—would any person buy the patties? not one, even if the flesh were as white as a chicken. No one would go near the shop, and the man would be ruined in his business. The devil a patty would he sell.Mr. R. Martin
in rebus adversis perfugium et solatium prœbet.sccundas res ornat;ex post facto1524†1523152215211520║15191518ex officio1517 felt it to be perfectly impossible that he should allow the Speaker to quit the chair, without taking the opportunity of warmly protesting against the enactments of this bill. He should cautiously abstain from looking at it, in any observations he might offer to the House, except upon those general principles by which it was connected with the other bills. The grounds, then, upon which he objected to it were virtually the same as those upon which he had proceeded on a former night, with respect to measures effecting the press; and they were resolved into this one, namely— that the
in rebus adversis perfugium et solatium prœbet.sccundas res ornat;ex post facto1524†1523152215211520║15191518ex officio1517Mr. Denman
 said, that he approved of the measure because he believed it to be necessary; but as the causes which required it were, in his opinion, of a temporary nature, the remedy applied to the evil should not be permanent. This measure might be tried for three years, and at the end of that period it might be renewed, if circumstances should then require its continuance. But he begged the House to recollect, that if they passed this as a permanent measure, it could not be repealed without the concurrence of the other House of Parliament. He therefore moved for leave to bring up a clause for limiting the duration of the bill for three years.Mr. Alderman Heygate
 observed, that if his hon. friend's suggestion were not attended to, it must be meant to do that indirectly which it was not thought expedient to do directly—banishing a man for a period of years more than equal to his probable life; and such a mode of proceeding could not be too strongly deprecated, as inconsistent with the openness and dignity of the English law.Sir J. Mackintosh
154415431542154115401539153815371536153515341533153215311530 said, the present was the proper time for him to state the amendments of which he had given notice
154415431542154115401539153815371536153515341533153215311530Sir James Mackintosh
15571556"Dasperat tractata nitescere posse, relinquit."—" quæIliaci cineres, et flamma extrema meorum; Testor, in occasu vestro, nec tela, nec ullas Vitavisse vices Danaum; et, si fata fuissent Ut caderem, meruisse manu.155515541553† said, he rose to recall the attention of the committee to the grounds of his amendment, from which they had been quite carried away by the magnificent speech of his right hon. friend, who on this occasion had delighted the committee by the union of all the splendor of eloquence with the specious and dexterous declamation in which he was eminently skilled. His right hon. friend had employed all his powers of imagination and skill, and artifice of representation (he would not add another syllable), to lead the minds of the committee from the argument of the question. His (sir J. Mackintosh's) province admitted not of the same use of ingenuity; and if it did, he could not hope to succeed in such a contest. His part was, not to indulge in the vivacity of invective, but, by a humble and plain defence, to recall the attention of the committee to the question before them. His part was, not to dazzle by the fascinations of eloquence, barren and unentertaining statements, and dry reasoning, being the only commodities he had to offer. His right hon. friend had dressed up an imaginary personage, whom he introduced into the House of Commons for the purpose of intimidation. This imaginary personage, so magnificently presented on the scene of that House, his right hon. friend had indeed most triumphantly destroyed and demolished. The ability with which his right hon. friend had accomplished this achievement, he certainly admired; or if the display produced any thing like regret in his mind, it was, that it should be thrown away in combating with a spectre which must soon have disappeared, and in destroying what from its nature must soon have destroyed itself. A feebler hand and a less vehement effort might have accomplished so unnecessary and so ignoble a task. His right hon. friend had, in one part of his speech, from his stores of panegyric, poured forth praises on the feeble efforts which he (sir J. Mackintosh) had made, while, in another, he had attacked with the force of his invective a part of the arguments which he had adduced to support his proposition. As in no part of his address to the House there had been sufficient merit to deserve eulogy, so in
15571556"Dasperat tractata nitescere posse, relinquit."—" quæIliaci cineres, et flamma extrema meorum; Testor, in occasu vestro, nec tela, nec ullas Vitavisse vices Danaum; et, si fata fuissent Ut caderem, meruisse manu.155515541553†Sir James Mackintosh
 expressed his surprise that the words "maliciously and advisedly" should be omitted in this bill, since they were inserted in the act of the 36th of the king.Sir J. Mackintosh
1566 observed, that the ground of the introduction of the present bill was to put down the blasphemy and sedition which issued from a portion of the press. But it went not to that alone, for it confounded the innocent with the guilty, and equally condemned that portion which was respectable, with the vilest and most disreputable part. It classed the innocent man, who by accident was led to the commission of crime, with the deliberate and malignant libeller. The amendment of his learned friend would make this just and necessary distinction. The bill comprised every mode of publication. But the law of libel, as it already existed, not only went to punish the writer of an offensive article, but even all those who were, in a particular way, connected with the work. But as this did not apply alone to the diurnal press, but to almost every species of publication, he would ask, why not define what the libel was? It was said to be "any thing tending to bring his majesty's government into contempt." Now, as the acts of the government were ascribed to, and looked upon as the acts of ministers, the libel would not of course
1566Mr. Scarlett
1582 agreed in every thing that had been said relative to the respectability of the petitioners, but he could not allow that House to separate under an impression, that the commercial interests of the country were overlooked or forgotten by the ministers of the Crown. With them it was an object of great solicitude. If any practical view opened on the minds, either of the petitioners or of the hon. gentleman who presented it, his right hon. friend at the head of the board of
1582Lord Castlreagh
15781577 was happy to hear it stated by all the hon. gentlemen who had spoken, that the laws enacted last year concerning the currency of the country, ought not to be disturbed. The country was, unquestionably, in a state of great distress, but he differed in opinion from his hon. friend who presented the petition as to the cause of that distress. His hon. friend thought that this country was in a state of forced currency, and that the evils both at home and abroad arose from the regulations which that House had made relative to the currency. That cause, however, he was convinced, was totally inadequate to produce such an effect, and therefore the evil must be traced to other sources. He might here remark, that his hon. friend had brought an unexpected accusation against him, namely, that he had proposed a plan for the regulation of the currency, but that he had not the merit of originality. Now, he did not think that he had ever claimed that merit, for he was aware that many persons before his time had taken a similar view of the subject, and he hoped that whatever might be the merit of the application which he had made of principles known to others, he had stated his opinions with becoming modesty. He conceived that the distress was chiefly to be ascribed to the inadequacy of the capital of the nation to carry on the operations of trade, manufacture, and commerce. But why was the capital more inadequate now than formerly? If the profits on capital were higher, and labour more productive in other countries, it could not be doubted that capital would be transferred to those countries: no proposition in Euclid was clearer than this. Now, he thought they had greatly aggravated this evil by bad legislation, and he had formerly mentioned instances. He had referred to the corn-laws as one example; and however unpopular the doctrine might be with some gentlemen, he would state his opinion freely, that he believed the corn-laws to have materially increased the evil,
15781577Mr. Ricardo
 heard with regret from the noble lord, that in place of the government on its own responsibility taking-up the inquiry into the public distress, for the purpose of providing that relief, which must be applied, and quickly, the noble lord had left it to the proposition of individual members of that House. As to what had been stated by the hon. member who denied the effect of taxation on the manufacturing distresses, he differed from him most decidedly. If some arrangement was not effected before the period for the bullion payments arrived, under such a system of taxation, he feared an alarming crisis was near. Mr. Ellice
15811580 regretted the harsh expressions towards the petitioners which had fallen from his. hon. friend the member for Marlow. Was it no disrespect to eighty of the most considerable merchants of London to say that they belonged to the anti-bullion party, and were influenced by such feelings alone in their application to that House? Had his hon. friend, before he gave vent to such observations, allowed himself to have perused the names appended to that petition, he would have checked himself, and not charged some of the greatest capitalists in the metropolis
15811580Mr. Brougham
15711570 said, a petition had been put into his hands, signed by a number of respectable persons, merchants and traders of London, whose object was to call the attention of the House to the commercial distress of the country. These persons approached the House with no factious views. They did not desire to interfere with or interrupt the course which parliament might desire to take on other questions, and they were the rather convinced that ministers would not be inattentive to their requests, because they had made efforts lately to meet the wishes expressed in the petition of another respectable
15711570Mr. Irving
1574 said, he had had no intercourse with the petitioners, but had been only requested by them to present the petition to the House. But he saw names affixed to it as respectable as that of the hon. member himself. The majority was composed of the most respectable names in the commercial world—and if small in number it contained a body of wealth and consideration which demanded attention from that House. They called for no specific enactments, and he, in mentioning some considerations that occurred to himself, had expressly stated that he was not instructed to state them, but that they were entirely suggestions of his own. As to the resumption of cash payments, he confessed, that however much he had differed from others, not as to the result, but as to the means to be taken to insure it, he should now be most unwilling to disturb the existing enactments; because, chiefly, the country had already suffered a great part of the inconveniencies which could result from that measure. By the advocates of the law that end was to be reached by privation, which he had conceived might be attained by a course of prosperity. He would say, it was his most deliberate conviction, that a great part of the evils which afflicted all classes in the country, had been owing to the measures taken respecting the currency; and though the subject had not been the study of his life, he would, if the question came again to be discussed, not be afraid to meet either the hon. gentleman, or any of his disciples in argument; and he felt, that in opposing the hon. gentleman, he should be supported by the opinion of the
1574Mr. Irving
15761575 regretted that the hon. gentleman had not withheld the reflections in which he had indulged on the petition. The gentleman with whom the petition, originated, was a merchant of the first eminence and respectability, both for wealth, talents, and personal character: from the nature of his mercantile connexions, he could not enter into plans of speculation; but, at the same time, were he disposed to speculate, none had better means of doing so, on the score of wealth and credit. He could assure the' House, that the petition had no connection whatever with the noble lord (Castlereagh), any more than with a person in another world; and he had reason to believe that the noble lord had not even heard of it till last night. This gentleman had called on him (Mr. S.) to ask his opinion on the propriety of such a petition; and he confessed that he had ap-
15761575Mr. J. Smith
1579 was an advocate for the object which the petition had in view, although he could not help thinking the question proposed for inquiry extremely complicated. It would perhaps be better to take one branch of this great question at a time than to enter into the whole of it at once. The freedom of trade was, no doubt, a sound principle in theory, but gentlemen were not generally aware of the difficulties which presented themselves, when an attempt was made to carry that principle into practice. The distress of the country, at present, he attributed to over speculation, over importation, and over manufac-
1579Mr. Finlay
15731572 said, he could not see any practical end that was openly proposed by the petitioners, but he had reason to complain that they, having, as they seemed to think, a remedy in view for the distress of the country, allowed the House to sit for a month, and afterwards to determine on an adjournment, without coming forward. When he heard last night that a petition, purporting to come from the merchants and traders of London, had been put into the hands of an hon. member, he was very much surprised, as he had passed the greatest part of
15731572Mr. Grenfell
 thought inquiry most imperiously called for; for unless the grievances of the people were considered, and their distress relieved, no hope could be entertained of permanent tranquillity. When the people were in distress, and discontented in 1812, coercive measures were adopted, but no steps were taken to relieve distress or remove the cause of discontent. Upon the recurrence of distress and disaffection in 1816 and 1817, coercive measures alone were again resorted to; and now, in 1819, the same course was to be followed. But after such recent experience, was it wise to persevere in such a system?Mr. W. Douglas
 said, he imputed the distresses to the great diminution of the currency, which had been for a long time gradually going on. When nine millions had been withdrawn from the circulation, great mischief and distress must have been the result. He believed much of the confusion had already taken place, and from what he heard from various parts, confidence was reviving. Let government but state the extent to which the diminution of the circulation should go, and the distress, the effect of uncertainty and want of confidence, would quickly disappear.Mr. Alderman Heygate
 begged to remind the noble lord of the situation in which the bill would place Ireland. It would, in her situation, be much more severely felt than in England, for she had already restrictions on the press which were not known here. He alluded to the power which was exercised of withholding stamps from the proprietor of a newspaper after his conviction for a libel a second time. There were also several regulations with respect to stamp duties on the smallest papers, even hand-bills, which were not known here. He trusted, therefore, the noble lord would take this matter into consideration, and introduce some measure upon the subject.Sir H. Parnell
 could not suffer this opportunity to pass without once more entering his protest against the measure. He thought it was one which was calculated to enslave the country. Whether ministers would abuse the power which, it gave them, he would not say; but whether they did so or not, he objected to the bill as a measure, which, under the pretence of putting down seditious libels, went to cramp every thing like free discussion upon political subjects. In the name therefore of the free people of England—not the people without the government of King, Lords, and Commons, but the people with the sovereign at their head—he protested against this measure, as one which would alter their excellent constitution. He condemned it the more as being part of a series of severe enactments against public liberty, without being accompanied with even an attempt to inquire into the condition of the people, or the cause of their distresses.Sir R. Wilson
 then said:—"Mr. Manners Sutton; we have it in command from his royal highness the Prince Regent, acting in the name and on the behalf of his Majesty, to inform you, that his Royal Highness, fully confident of your eminent and tried abilities, and fitness to discharge the important duties of Speaker of the House of Commons, to which you have been elected by them, has been pleased to command us to signify to you, that his Royal Highness fully approves of the choice which the Commons have made; and that his Royal Highness therefore, in the name and on the behalf of his Majesty, doth approve and confirm you to be their Speaker."The Lord President
[16"My lords; since his royal highness the Prince Regent, acting in the name and on behalf of his majesty, has been graciously pleased to approve of the choice which his majesty's faithful Commons have made, I submit myself with all
[16 then said:—
[16"My lords; since his royal highness the Prince Regent, acting in the name and on behalf of his majesty, has been graciously pleased to approve of the choice which his majesty's faithful Commons have made, I submit myself with all
[16The Speaker
"Mr. Speaker; We have it farther in command from his royal highness the Prince Regent, acting in the name and on the behalf of his majesty, to inform you, that his Royal Highness most freely grants and allows to his majesty's faithful Commons, all those rights and privileges, in the most full and ample manner, which have ever been granted to them by his majesty, or by any of his royal predecessors. With respect to what regards yourself, Mr. Speaker, you may be assured, that his Royal Highness, judging from what has taken place in the last parliament, will at all times be anxiously inclined to put the most favourable construction upon all your words and actions, in the discharge of your highly important duties." replied:—
"Mr. Speaker; We have it farther in command from his royal highness the Prince Regent, acting in the name and on the behalf of his majesty, to inform you, that his Royal Highness most freely grants and allows to his majesty's faithful Commons, all those rights and privileges, in the most full and ample manner, which have ever been granted to them by his majesty, or by any of his royal predecessors. With respect to what regards yourself, Mr. Speaker, you may be assured, that his Royal Highness, judging from what has taken place in the last parliament, will at all times be anxiously inclined to put the most favourable construction upon all your words and actions, in the discharge of your highly important duties."The Lord President
[22 to second the address, and observed, that after what had been said by the noble earl, he did not think it necessary to take up much of their lordships' time; but in what he did say, he trusted to receive their usual indulgence. In adverting to the melancholy topic of the demise of the queen, although he could not add to what had been already said by his noble friend, he felt himself
[22Lord Saltoun rose
[2827[26lllllll25[2423 did not feel himself called upon to offer any opposition to the address, which had been supported with great propriety by his noble
[2827[26lllllll25[2423The Marquis of Lansdowne
33[32l31[30‡29 said, he had heard with great satisfaction what had fallen from the noble marquis. He was happy to observe the liberal view which the noble marquis had, in a manner so creditable to himself, taken of the speech and the address. The House, he was sure, would participate in the satisfaction he experienced on perceiving that nothing
33[32l31[30‡29The Earl of Liverpool
35[34ll said, he could not feel the extreme satisfaction proposal to be expressed in the Address, at the flourishing state of the country. There had not, in his opinion, been such pain: taken to reduce our expenditure as if was the duty of government to have taken. We had now 30,000,00035[34llThe Earl of Lauderdale
21 said, that in rising to require the concurrence of their lordships in the points contained in the Prince Regent's most gracious speech, he felt no inconsiderable reluctance, from a consciousness of his own inability to treat on such important subjects in a suitable manner; but he was encouraged by the assurance, that it required no very able advocate to secure their unqualified assent to the address he should hare the honor to move, where every topic, save those with which the speech commenced, was calculated to excite feelings of gratification. The lamented indisposition of his majesty had ever been a cause of sorrow to their lord-ships; the continuance of it, therefore could not fail to call forth the sincerest expression of their sympathy. They had also now to pay the mournful tribute of their sorrow to the memory of her late majesty, who, for so long and so eventful a period, had presided over the court of Great Britain, adorning it by her eminent virtues, and preserving its purity by her own proud example. During that period, the court of this country was the object of universal esteem and admiration; and now that it had lost her presence, by whom its character had been so highly elevated, it became every person in the country to mourn that event as one that claimed their deepest regret.—He then alluded to the other points touched upon in the speech from the throne, and observed, that on whichever side their lord-ships turned their attention, whether foreign or domestic, the whole scene presented a most cheering prospect. In adverting to the negotiations at Aix-la-Chapelle, he could not but rejoice that the result had been such as to prove the con-cord and agreement subsisting between the sovereigns of Europe, from which; added to the evacuation of France by the army of occupation, under the circum stances in which it had taken place, the most pleasing anticipation might be formed of the continuance of tranquillity in Europe—a result which could scarcely have been looked forward to some time
21The Earl of Warwick
 adverted to what he had said on a former evening, relative to its being the intention of his majesty's government to propose a bill for continuing the restriction upon cash payments at the Bank of England, and observed, that at the time he made that statement, it was not in his contemplation to propose any inquiry with regard to the subject. Since then, however, a communication had been received from the committee of gentlemen with whom his majesty's government were in the habit of officially communicating, he meant the committee of Bank Directors, which had induced him to bring forward a motion for a committee of inquiry. He therefore gave notice of his intention to move to-morrow se'nnight for the appointment of a committee to inquire into the state of the Bank of England, with reference to the question of the restriction of cash payments.The Earl of Liverpool
 expressed his satisfaction at the intended motion of the noble earl, but trusted it would not interfere with the motions for information which he intended to make for the purpose, and which information he considered essential to the proper consideration of the question.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, he by no means intended his motion to interfere with the motions of the noble earl, but on the contrary, thought that the greater part of, if not all the information for which the noble earl intended to move, would be useful to the consideration of the subject in the committee.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he had, towards the end of the last session, moved for certain papers relative to the state of the prisons of the country. Those papers had not yet been presented; but every thing, that had fallen under his own observation since the dissolution of the last parliament, relative to the subject of prisons, was of a nature to shew, that a farther inquiry into the subject was highly expedient, and all that he had heard from others had served to confirm him in this opinion. As soon, therefore, as the papers to which he had alluded should be laid on the table, he would move the appointment of a committee to take them into consideration; and he would also move, that all the acts relative to the management of prisons be referred to the same committee. He was happy to find that this subject was to be taken up in another place; but when he considered the advantages their lordships House possessed for the successful prosecution of an investigation of the kind he had in view, he should not be induced, by any thing which might happen elsewhere, to abandon his intention.The Marquis of Lansdowne
[80 wished to remind the noble marquis, that the information he had moved for at the close of the last session comprehended the state of the prisons for the year 1818. The accounts of course could not be made up before the end of the year. Every effort had, however, been made to complete them, and the greater part were already prepared, but the whole could not be finished before the end of the ensuing month. When the motion for these accounts was before their lordships at the end of the last session, he had intimated his intention to submit to the House a proposition relative to the state of the prisons soon after the meeting of parliament, and he hoped to have had an opportunity of doing so before any other public notice should be taken of the subject. It had long been his most anxious wish to see the state of the prisons fully investigated; and under that impression, it was his intention, had he not been anti-
[80Lord Sidmouth
 said, he was far from wishing to anticipate the noble secretary of state. If his majesty's ministers were desirous of taking up the subject, he should not stand in their way, but would, on the contrary, always be ready to concur with them in the course which might appear most effectual for the attainment of the important object he had in view.The Marquis of Lansdowne
81 having moved the order of the day, and the reading of that part of the Speech of the Lords Commissioners which related to the death of the queen, and the care of his majesty's person, proceeded to address the House on the subject of which he had given notice. The death of the queen—that calamitous event, which their lordships and the nation had deplored, and for which he had recently called upon their lordships to offer their condolence to the Prince Regent—now imposed upon him the duty of proposing a measure relative to the trust of the king's sacred person. When, about eight years ago, their lordships were called upon to consider this important question, they had judged it right that the custody of his majesty's person should be vested in the hands of one individual, and that that individual should not be the person who was placed at the head of the government. He thought then, and remained still of the same opinion, that their lordships had come to a judicious decision. It was not a decision adopted on any principal of jealousy of the head of the government, but was one which could not fail to be most agreeable to that illustrious person himself. Their lordships then resolved to commit the custody of the king's person to that individual to whom, from connexion, character, and rank, it was most proper the sacred trust should be consigned. In consequence of the lamented decease of her majesty, their lordships had now to consider of the best means of supplying her place with respect to this important trust. He believed he should anticipate their lordships wishes by proposing his royal highness the duke of York. Whether their lordships considered the relation in which that illustrious person
81The Earl of Liverpool
[106imperium in imperio observed, that he had not yesterday thought it necessary to make any observations on this measure, as explained by the noble secretary of state, nor, as he understood it now, had he any very strong objection to urge against it. Since he had come down to the House, he had, however, perused the bill, and there was a part of it, which, for the sake of propriety and consistency in their lordships' proceedings, required in his mind some consideration. He was perfectly willing to acknowledge, on the ground of parliament having recognized the principle, whether right or wrong, that the care of the king's person should be separated from the executive government, that the trust could not be better disposed of than it was by this bill. But, besides the separation of the trust, the bill involved another principle, which had, when the question was before discussed, been the subject of much objection with many noble lords: he meant the establishment of an [106imperium in imperioLord Holland
 said, he had no objection to give the explanation which, the noble lord required. The noble lord had observed, that though it might be a question, whether it was expedient to vest the executive government and the care of the king's person in one individual, yet that the principle of separation being recognized by parliament, he thought the duke of York a very proper person for the trust proposed to be vested in his Royal Highness by this bill. Now, if this was the view which the noble lord took of the subject—if the appointment made by the bill appeared proper—it seemed that the conclusion to be drawn was, that all the patronage, be it more or less, which belonged to the office, ought to be vested in the individual named in the bill, who must have the superintendence of the establishment. The question of the extent of the establishment was at present not before their lordships; but he had no difficulty in saying, that it was under consideration, and would soon be the subject of a proposition in another place. It was intended, that the establishment should undergo a reduction, and the proposition which was to be made would be founded on a principle of reduction; but as to the details of that reduction, they had no connexion with the present bill. They would come first before the other House, and would, in the usual course of business, be brought under the consideration of their lordships. In the mean time, all that he contended for was, that whatever that establishment might be, it ought, if their lordships agreed to the present bill, to be placed under the control of the duke of York.The Earl of Liverpool
107║ said, he could not accede
107║Lord Holland
custos personœ[108 conceived that the noble lord had taken an erroneous view of
custos personœ[108The Earl of Liverpool
121[120 said, he held in his hand a petition from the lord mayor, aldermen and commons of the city of London, in common council assembled, relating to the present state of the criminal law of the country, which was evidently deserving of the most anxious attention of their lordships, it being a subject that loudly called for legislative consideration. The petition did not come from visionaries, or merely speculative men, but from men of business, men immersed in the commerce of London, and in the every day habit of attending to those subjects which must be materially involved in any consideration of the criminal law of the country. Amongst those also who petitioned were men who formed an important part of the magistracy of the country, and who were in the constant practice of those duties which were essentially connected with the administration of the laws. These considerations more peculiarly rendered the petition deserving of their lordships consideration. That the subject itself was one of the greatest importance could scarcely admit of a doubt; nor could he
121[120Lord Holland
[122 said, he did not rise for the purpose of opposing the petition, or making any objection to the discussion of so important a subject, when it should come before the House. The present, however, was not the time for discussion, nor did he mean to enter into it. Were he to say any thing upon such a question, it would be necessary to say a great deal. He wished, therefore, to refer it to another opportunity. What he wished to call their lordships attention to now was, a mere matter of fact. Upon such a subject it was necessary to know how facts stood. It was necessary to consider how far the increase of crimes might have arisen in the last and preceding years, in consequence of the transition from war to peace, and the circumstances naturally attending such a change. They should look to former corresponding periods of war and peace, to know whether the same effects followed from the same causes. There was certainly no period in their history completely analogous to the present. There was no preceding war in which the military and naval establishments were so large. This was to be borne in mind, when computing how far the same changes arose from the same causes in other periods. Documents quite satisfactory could not, it was true, be consulted, for until within a few years no general return was made of convictions and punishments. It was in 1805, when he had the honour of being secretary for the home department, that such re-
[122The Earl of Liverpool
[124123 said, he did not rise for the purpose of prolonging the discussion under the present circumstances. It was a most important subject, and he should be glad that an opportunity were given of taking such an extended view of it as that alluded to by the noble earl. The principle laid down by that noble earl did not appear to him sufficient to account for the late extraordinary and unprecedented increase of crimes. It did not by any means commence with the peace, but went on progressively, from time to time, during the war also. Its progress was not therefore
[124123The Marquis of Lansdowne
 said, he had not stated the transition from war to peace as the only cause of the increased crimes, but as one which he considered very material. He, however, still contended, that the increase, with respect to the late war, was proportionally similar to that which had taken place in former wars, and on the conclusion of peace.The Earl of Liverpool
 alluded to the report before their lordships relative to the means of preventing the forgery of bank-notes, and observed, that if they wished to put a stop to the lamentable effects of forgery, they must remove the cause. There were very few instances of the forgery of country bank-notes, while executions for forging Bank of England notes were numerous. The reason was, that the competition of country bankers occasioned a vigilant attention on the part of each house to the state of its notes. If many forged notes were suffered by country bankers to get into circulation, it would affect their credit. Hence they were constantly on the watch. But the Bank of England, having no competition, did not feel the necessity of the same vigilance. The only remedy for this was, either to return to cash payments, or if that was not to be, to allow the bankers of London to issue one and two pound notes, in which case, from the competition, great vigilance would be used, and forgery become much less prevalent.Lord King
iota[126125 said, he wished it to be distinctly understood that he did not object to the care and custody of the king's person being vested in the duke of, York, it having been deemed fitting by the legislature that the custody of the king's sacred person should be separated from the executive government; and some measure being rendered necessary by the
iota[126125Lord Holland
[128imperium in imperioimperium in imperio;custos personœ,127 observed, that their lordships were now only proceeding to legislate on a part of the subject, upon which no difference of opinion existed. They were all agreed as to the propriety of establishing the custody of the king's person in one of the royal family; they were agreed as to the propriety of vesting it in the duke of York, to whom the control of the establishment was to be given, in consequence of such appointment, by the present clause. To this he thought that no objection could fairly be urged. A difference of opinion might arise with respect to the amount of the establishment; but the best way of proceeding, in such a case, was to separate the two questions; to appoint the duke of York, in the first instance, and to leave the other subject for a future occasion, not as
[128imperium in imperioimperium in imperio;custos personœ,127The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he did not join issue with the noble earl. It was by no means necessary, to support his objection to refuse the patronage of the establishment to the duke of York in the case alluded to. In one word, his objection was this, that if they agreed to the clause in its present shape without any qualification they would allow a principle of larger extent than the noble lord himself would, upon reflection, be willing to recognise. At the same time, having stated his opinion, he would not give their lordships the trouble of dividing.Lord Holland
 said, he had now to propose to fill up the blank, and to move the appointment of a member of the council, to supply the vacancy occasioned by the death of lord chief-justice Ellenborough. It was from no want of respect for the learned person who succeeded that noble and learned lord that he did not propose him for this situation; but the official duties of the chief-justice rendered the appointment inconvenient, as it was desirable that a sufficient number of members should always be ready to attend the council on the monthly and quarterly meetings. He should therefore move the appointment of marquis Camden.The Earl of Liverpool
 concurred most heartily in the motion, and congratulated their lordships on the choice which had been made of the noble marquis, who had acted so generous and disinterested a part with respect to the reduction of his own establishment. Hence, he was the fittest person that could be selected.Lord Holland
[160159[158157 pursuant to the notice he had given, to move an address to the Prince Regent, for copies of the instructions transmitted by his majesty's. secretary of state to the governor of Java? for the surrender of that island to the commissioners appointed by the
[160159[158157The Marquis of Lansdowne rose,
163 thought that the noble earl had completely failed in his answer to the statements of his noble relation. The noble earl had endeavoured to show, that in consequence of a deficiency in point of form, part of the information called for was not fit to be presented to their lordships; but he had said nothing to remove the impression produced by the speech of his noble relation, namely, that a transaction had taken place with respect to the surrender of Java, which deserved the serious inquiry of parliament. In moving for the instructions sent to the governor of Java, his noble friend had inferred nothing with respect to these instructions as to the subject of the treaty with the sultan of Palembang. His noble friend merely wished to ascertain whether the terms of the treaty were to be considered as absolute, or whether there had not been some understanding between the two governments on the subject of the surrender of Java, which might have served to modify those terms. Without some such understanding, there was a breach of faith with the native princes with whom treaties had been concluded. We who pretended to go about the world to teach moral lessons to mankind, were particularly called upon to give examples of good faith in the maintenance of treaties. The sultan of Palembang surrendered Banca for what he considered an equivalent, and of that compensation he was now to be deprived. The noble earl had said, that we made no promise to retain possession, of Java but did he mean to contend, that it was just to deliver over to another power a sovereign with whom we had recently made a treaty, without asking any security for the fulfilment of the engagements into which we had entered? This would be an assertion in direct contradiction with the law of nations, and, what was far more important, with the feelings and common sense of all mankind. It would have looked much better had the noble earl said, that those who made the treaty with the government of the Netherlands were ignorant of the agreement entered into with the sultan of Palembang. In that case there would be an acknowledgment of great carelessness; but the colour which the noble lord had endeavoured to
163Lord Holland
 contended, that if we had received the sovereignty of Banca for that of Palembang, and if we still retained what was given as the equivalent, we were bound to support the sultan in the rights which he had acquired by the transfer.Lord Holland
[166165 said, that the treaty and the instructions in question might be granted, but the protest could not, and for this plain reason—that ft Was not an official document, it being made by a person who had no right to make it. In the discussion that might arise after the other papers were laid oh the table, in consequence of the present motion, the Subject might be considered in all its bearings, with as much information and latitude as if the protest was actually produced. He would not refer to the other
[166165The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he would withdraw so much of his motion as referred to the protest, not because he allowed the justice of the objection stated to its production, but because he did not see that it would be necessary to the discussion if the other papers were granted, and because the whole subject might thus be brought under the review of the house by other means of information. With regard to the terms of his motion regarding the instructions, they might be modified so as to include what the noble lords opposite were willing to produce. He did not move for the treaty of Paris as regarding this question, because it was already before the House. The noble earl opposite had stated, that the Dutch had a factory at Banca before 1803; but that establishment was not equivalent to the sovereignty of the island, or why was the cession of it made a particular article of the treaty, and not included in the general engagement to restore the Dutch colonies? The island was, therefore, not considered as belonging to the Dutch before 1814; it was not given them by us for nothing—we received in exchange for it a valuable consideration in perpetuity. If, then, the sovereignty of this island was transferred to us in perpetuity, and if for it we had received the permanent settlement of Cochin, how could it be contended that our engagement with the sultan was merely of a temporary nature? The noble earl who spoke last had said, that the treaty of Paris was absolute and unconditional; and was not that with the sultan of Palembang, by which we received a valuable colony, absolute too? The sultan had relied on the permanency of his acquisition as much as we did on ours; and were the advantage and security to be all on one side? The rule of the unconditional surrender of conquests could not apply to Banca, because Banca had not been conquered from the Dutch. The noble marquis concluded by reading his motion, which included copies of the two warrants, by which Java and its dependencies, and the island of Banca, were surrendered to the Dutch in 1814, and a copy of the treaty concluded between the government of Java, when under the British dominion, and the sultan of Palembang, regarding the cession of Banca.The Marquis of Lansdowne
[164 in explanation, said, that the question of our right to interfere in favour of the sultan of Palembang might be determined by the nature of the transaction between him and the government of Java, by which he acquired the sovereignty of which the Dutch threatened to dispossess him. If the treaty was a finished transaction, if the exchange of the sovereignty of Palembang against that of Banca was completely executed; then we had done all that on our part we were bound to do. After he acquired from us the sovereignty of Palembang by ceding Banca, our part of the engagement was fulfilled. He was then left to conduct
[164Earl Bathurst
[162161 said, he should not object to the production of copies of the instructions which had been [transmitted, for the surrender, in the terms of the treaty, of the colonies which were in pos session of the Dutch in the year 1803; but if the noble marquis wished to obtain copies of the instructions which were sent out after communications on tile subject of the cession had taken place between the Dutch and English; com missioners, these were documents of a very different description, and he could not consent to their being made public. There were points connected with the transaction still under discussion between the two governments; and, in such a state of affairs, their lordships would readily perceive the propriety of his with holding any communication of the documents on which these discussions were founded. It seemed to be the opinion of the noble marquis, that it was the duty of his majesty's government, before they surrendered Java, to exact from the Dutch commissioners a pledge that they would abide by the treaty contracted with the sultan of Palembang while the island was in our possession; but no such pledge could be required, for, had any conditions been demanded before Java and Banca were given up, such a demand would have been a violation of the treaty concluded with the king of the Netherlands in which surrender was unconditionally stipulated. He did not mean to say that representations had not been made an the subject at the, time; but only that we had no right hold possession till an Arrangement should be made. Any agreements entered into with native authorities must have been concluded, either with princes who were subject to the former Dutch government, or those who were independent of it. If with the forever the superiority of, the, Dutch government was restored by the of terms of the treaty and in no arrangement made with the independent Prices, was it ever de dared, either by the British government or the directors of the. East India company, that Java would not be surrendered until the Dutch government agreed to recognize their claims. He majesty a government had agreed to cede the full so-
[162161Earl Bathurst
203 said, he rose in pursuance of notice, to move for a Secret Committee to inquire into the State of the Bank of England, with reference to the resumption of cash payments, at the period prescribed by law, and into other matters connected with the subject. In doing this, he had no hesitation in stating that it had been his most anxious wish that the resumption of cash payments should take place with the least possible delay, that no time whatever should be lost in returning to our ancient policy, as soon as circumstances would possibly allow. It would be in the recollection of their lordships that on the opening of the session he had stated his opinion that circumstances would not permit the return to cash payments at the period prescribed by law, but that if that should prove to be the case, it was intended by his majesty s government merely to propose the continuance of the restriction till March next, and that if it should in the mean time be thought requisite still to continue the restriction committee should be appointed in the next session to investigate the subject,
203The Earl of Liverpool
[204 thought, from
[204The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, he did not think it advisable, in the present stage of the question, that the committee should be authorized to deliver an opinion; nor did he mean that they should be confined to the mere reporting of evidence; he had, therefore, adopted the middle course of allowing them to report such observations as they might think necessary to explain any parts of the evidence, or that they might think of importance.The Earl of Liverpool
 was still of opinion that the words of the motion would preclude the committee from making observations upon any part of the evidence, except the information they actually reported.The Earl of Lauderdale
 was only anxious that the committee should have the fullest powers to inquire, and full liberty to report their observations. He had no objection, therefore, to strike out the word "thereupon," which would, at all events, leave the committee completely at liberty to make such observations as they should deem meet.The Earl of Liverpool
205, in agreeing most fully in the propriety and expediency of the motion, also cordially agreed with the noble earl, that the members of the committee should come to the inquiry without any reference to their previous opinions, but with a determination to enter upon the fullest investigation of the subject, and only after a thorough inquiry to come to a conclusion upon the evidence. With regard to its being a secret committee, some communications from the Bank might require secrecy, but otherwise the whole subject, in all its branches, was so completely before the public, that he could see no necessity whatever for secrecy. The state of the Bank of England too, he considered a very subordinate part of the inquiry. He had no doubt
205The Marquis of Lansdowne
 presented a Petition on behalf of the Common Council of the city of London against the renewal of the above act, and strongly expressive of the petitioners opinion as to the injustice and injurious tendency of its operation.The Earl of Shaftesbury
 observed, that a more important subject could not come under the consideration of parliament than that to which the petition referred, and which must form a question for discussion in the course of the present session. With a view to the due investigation of this subject, and to the obtaining of that information which was requisite to enable the House fully to consider it, he intimated his intention of moving in a day or two, for a statement of the number of persons who had been discharged under the provisions of the Insolvent Debtors' act, their names, the sums for which they had respectively obtained their discharge, and the dividends paid.The Lord Chancellor
 observed, that the words of the motion were the same as those used in 1797, on the appointment of a secret committee, of a similar description, and they had not given rise to any difficulty.The Earl of Harrowby
—289 observed, that as a noble lord had given notice of his intention to move to-marrow for a committee to take into consideration the number of hours during which children were employed in the cotton factories, he wished to call that noble lord's attention to the real state of the case. The subject had been under consideration last year, in consequence of its having come before their lordships in the shape of a bill from the Commons; and he thought it might have been allowed to take the same course again. He did not mean to say any thing at present on the merits of the question, but he wished to appeal to the candour of the noble lord, on two different points, as grounds for the postponement of his motion. In the first place, it would be recollected, that great difficulty had been experienced in the course of last session to find a sufficient number of members to attend the committee. The noble lord was, however, going to propose its re-appointment at a time when several noble lords were about to be appointed to conduct a most important investigation. The second point was this: he bad just received a voluminous mass of papers connected with this subject, the details of which were stated to contain proof that the late disturbances at Manchester, and other places where cotton manufactories were established, had been occasioned by the misrepresentations which prevailed last year, when the investigation of this subject was going on. This was a most important assertion, and he wished to have the opportunity of examining the evidence for it, as it ought not to be made without a statement of the grounds on which it was founded; but he could not read all the papers before Monday. Much mischief had been done by the circulation of mutilated extracts of the evidence which had been
289The Earl of Lauderdale
 wished to afford every opportunity for a full and free enquiry. He was, therefore, not unwilling to comply with the request of the noble earl, so far as to postpone the motion he intended to make until Monday, but he did not think it right to consent to a longer delay. With regard to what the noble earl had said, as to the difficulty of finding members to attend the committee of last session, he should only remark, that there was not a single day on which the committee had not met and transacted business. As to statements on the subject of the investigation, not consistent with fact, having been circulated, he did not doubt but such might have been the case; but at the same time he must observe, that a very different opinion from that alluded to by the noble earl was entertained by many respecting the origin of the disturbances.Lord Kenyan
ll[324lll rose to move an humble address to his royal highness the Prince Regent, thanking him for his most gracious message; in doing which he should briefly state the nature and character of the particular fund to which the message referred, and which, by the lamented demise of her majesty, had now lapsed to the Prince Regent, for the general purposes of the civil list, and in what manner it was thought advisable to apply it. Their lordships were aware that 58,000ll[324lllThe Earl of Liverpool
[326l325l said, he had no objection to offer to the general object of the address, and was willing to concur in it, on account of the practical application of the fund in question, which he fully approved. It was, therefore, with no spirit of quibbling that he should state an objection which occurred to him on the principle laid down in the message of the Prince Regent, and re-asserted in the address as moved by the noble earl. The message stated, that the 58,000[326l325lThe Marquis of Lansdowne
l327l concurred in the hope which the noble marquis had just expressed. He had felt that he was not called upon to say any thing on the subject alluded to, as it was not referred to in the message. Their lordships must be aware, from the votes of the other House, that it was under consideration. When it came regularly before their lordships, he should feel it his duty to give such explanations as the occasion might appear to him to require. With regard to the question immediately under consideration, he was of opinion, that their lordships could have no hesitation in adopting the principle laid down in the message respecting the power of the Prince Regent in the disposal of the 58,000l327lThe Earl of Liverpool
 presented a Petition from certain Electors of Westminster against this bill. It was in substance the same as the one presented to the House of Commons by sir Francis Burdett, [see p. 208] Lord Sidmouth having moved the order of the day for the second reading of the bill,The Earl of Lauderdale
ex post factoassumpsit,ex post facto[336 said, he was surprised that the noble secretary of state should content himself with merely moving the second reading of this bill, and
ex post factoassumpsit,ex post facto[336The Earl of Lauderdale
ex post factosub silentio[338337 said, that with the construction of the present bill he had had no concern; but the bill which was for reviving and continuing an act of the 51st of the king, having, after much consideration, passed the other House, a representation was made to him, showing the expediency of such a measure; and bath as high steward of Westminster and as secretary of state, he felt himself bound to give the bill his support. He now pro-
ex post factosub silentio[338337Lord Sidmouth
339 contended, that the noble secretary of state had taken all erroneous view of the law. He seemed to be of opinion, that the high bailiff was only obliged to provide a single clerk to assist him in taking the poll. Such, however, was not the fact. Lord Ellenborough had laid it clearly down as the law, that the returning officer was bound to provide due accommodation for the election, and that the candidates, for whose benefit that accommodation was provided, must defray the expenses. Nothing could be more groundless than the analogy the noble lord had attempted to establish between sheriffs of counties and the high bailiff of Westminster. The office which the sheriff held was imposed upon him, while the high bailiff, on the contrary, not only took the burthen on himself voluntarily, but purchased his office from the dean and chapter of Westminster. The operation of this bill, if it should become a permanent law, would therefore, merely be that of raising the money value of the office, and enabling the dean and chapter to get a better price when it came again into the market. The noble lord spoke
339The Earl of Lauderdale
 presented a petition from certain persons concerned in the cotton factories at Stock-port, praying that a bill similar to that proposed last session, for limiting the hours of the labour of children, might be introduced and passed.Lord Kenyon
 said, he had been informed, that many of the individuals who had signed petitions for the object prayed for by this, had been persuaded so to do, in consequence of being told that if the bill passed they would get more money for their labour, and have to work fewer hours than they now did.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, he had no reason to suppose that any persons had signed this petition under the impression described by the noble earl. He had heard assertions of undue means having been resorted to for obtaining signatures, but he was not aware of any false representations having been employed to procure signatures to the petitions he presented, and regarded the assertions to that effect as unfounded. He had now to present a petition from persons of sixteen years of age and upwards, employed in the cotton manufactories of Holywell, in Flintshire. The object of this petition was the same as the last.Lord Kenyan
[340 wished to state, with respect to this petition, some facts which might, if their lordships pleased, be supported by affidavits. He was informed that a person from Stockport had arrived at Holywell, bringing with him a letter to some of the people employed there, and a copy of a petition, in terms similar to that presented, for them to sign: this stranger assembled the people in a public-house, and informed them that the petition was for a law which would
[340The Earl of Lauderdale
 thought the noble earl must have been deceived by the information he had received on this subject. The representations of the transaction which had been made to himself, from what he considered good authority, were of a very different nature.Lord Kenyan
 presented a petition, signed by the clergy of the established church, the dissenting clergy, medical persons, manufacturers, shopkeepers, and other inhabitants of Bolton-le-Moors, to the number of 5,226, praying, like the preceding petitions, for the limitation of the labour of children.The Bishop of Chester
 could not help reminding their lordships, who might be disposed to lay some stress on the circumstance of the petitions being signed by medical persons, of what had occurred last session, with regard to petitions similarly signed, Some of the medical persons who had signed the petitions, on being examined before the committee of last session, had declared, that on inspecting the manufactories they found the children employed in them, generally speaking, in better health than was usual for children of their age. They were of course asked what had induced them to sign the petitions. They answered, that they had been induced to sign them by the representations of friends; but that now, since they had had the opportunity of a personal examination of the children, they would sign no more. This fact accounted for the smaller number of such signatures which were now procured.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, it might be true that some medical persons had signed the former petitions inconsiderately, but he had reason to believe that such was not the case with those who had signed the petition he now presented.The Bishop of Chester
341 restated what had passed before the committee last
341The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, he had been for some time at Bolton-le-Moors. He then took occasion to inquire into the character of the medical persons whose names were attached to the petition, and was perfectly satisfied with the grounds on which they had formed their opinion respecting the effects of the employment in the factories on the health of the children. The right rev. prelate then presented a petition from persons of sixteen years and upwards, employed in the cotton factories at Bollington, in the county of Chester.The Bishop of Chester
 said, he wished to appeal once more to the consideration of the noble lord who was desirous of promoting this inquiry, in the hope that he would be induced to postpone it. The subject was one of the highest importance, since the object of the noble lord was, to alter those principles which had hitherto governed the application of labour in this commercial country. If the noble lord seriously felt all the importance of the question, he certainly would not urge it at a time when so few members were present, but would defer his motion until a period when it was likely he might find the house in a different state.The Earl of Landerdale
343[342 said, that having already, at the request of the noble earl, postponed the motion from Friday to this day, every noble lord who was desirous of attending might be supposed to be aware that the subject would be brought forward. If the House was thin on such an occasion, it was to be presumed that it arose from the supposition that no serious opposition would be made to the motion for appointing the committee. The case was one which, in his opinion, called for expedition, and therefore he could not agree to any longer delay. As what he had to propose was merely an inquiry, similar to that which had taken place last session at the request of the noble earl, he could see no reason for postponing the motion until there should be a more numerous attendance. The committee which was instituted last session, after the bill had undergone a second reading, had left the evidence in a very imperfect state. It was his wish, that the evidence should
343[342Lord Kenyon
345[344 said, he could not agree with the noble lord who made the motion, either in the principle of interference which he wished to establish, or in the force of the reasons which he had stated for the appointment of a committee. The noble lord had said, that it was right to appoint a committee this year, because a committee had been appointed last year; but he had not properly considered the difference of circumstances in the two periods. A committee had been appointed last year, because a bill came up from the other House, which had met there with a full discussion, but of which their lordships were ignorant; and then the question was, ought it to pass into a law without examination, or ought the House to
345[344Earl Grosvenor
[346 said, that this was indeed a very important subject, and he could not imagine either why a greater number of noble lords had not attended, or why those who were present had thought proper to withdraw. There
[346The Lord Chancellor
 said, that he should have no objection to postpone the subject to that day sevennight.Lord Kenyan
347 proposed an adjournment of a fortnight. He rose, he said, to say a few words about the protection given to labourers by the law of the land. It appeared on the examination of witnesses before the committee of last year, that two factories were discovered so dirty and unhealthy, that he, with all his desire that compacts between the employer and the labourer should be free, thought that they ought to be put down. He had asked their names; then he had asked if the magistrates had not exerted, in correcting them, the powers given by sir Robert Peel's bill; but he was told that there had been no interference. Was it not, therefore, more necessary to pass an act to compel magistrates to do their duty, than to enact new laws, which, like that to which he alluded, might be allowed to remain inoperative? He was convinced that no good could be gained by the agitation of the question, while much evil might result from the false expectations which renewed discussion would excite. These false expectations, which could never be realized, were the true cause of the disturbances which disgraced Manchester last Summer. In support of this, the noble earl read an extract from the
347The Earl of Lauderdale
[348 did not see any reason for thinking that on a future occasion there would be a fuller attendance of members. A noble earl had argued, that there existed a connexion between the disturbances in Manchester, during last Summer, and the exertions of the petitioners; but he could assure him that there was not the least foundation for such an opinion. The imputations thrown on the petitioners were, therefore, entirely groundless. They had conducted themselves with the most perfect prudence, with the most complete submission to the laws, and in the most inoffensive manner. He had himself been asked by them, whether he would advise meetings to be called at Manchester, Bolton-le-Moors, and Stockport, for the purpose of petitioning parliament, and he advised them to call no such meetings. He warned them of the dangers that might ensue, and gave it as his opinion, that no advantage could result from such a measure. Accordingly, no meeting was called at any of those places, nor had the petitioners formed the least connexion with those who had assembled in a more riotous manner. With regard to this last fact, he did not rest merely on the circumstance he had mentioned, or the casual observation of even people well informed. Some of the rioters of Stockport were tried at Chester, and he himself had attended, for the express purpose of ascertaining whether any connexion like that stated by the noble earl really existed, and he had left the court with the conviction that there was no ground for the charge. He held in his hand an address from the petitioners, declaring that they held in abhorrence the disturbances that had disgraced Manchester and its neighbourhood last Summer. He could not help remarking, that the reason which the noble earl gave for refusing to proceed farther, was in his mind a good reason for hastening the enactment of the law. Much good had already
[348The Bishop of Chester
387[386 rose, in consequence of his notice to make a motion on the subject of Offices in Reversion. What he then proposed was merely a motion for reversions granted by the Crown, but he now meant to extend his object further. The motion
387[386Earl Grosvenor
 doubted whether the second motion was so framed as to produce any practical result. He was at a loss to know what the noble lord meant by the general term public authorities. Did he mean departments of state, public boards, and courts of law? It appeared to him that it would be necessary for the noble earl to specify what bodies or persons he meant by public authorities.The Lord Chancellor
 wished the motion to be as general as possible, and for that reason had chosen the term public authorities. He was desirous of obtaining a return of grants in reversion from every public body by which such grants were made.Earl Grosvenor
[388 thought that the motion must be differently framed. No such term as public authorities was known in the law or constitution of the country. How was the proper officer to proceed when such an order, framed according to
[388The Earl of Liverpool
 did not think the objection to the motion valid. There were a great many acts of parliament in which the term public authorities occurred; it was, therefore, singular enough to assert that it wag unknown to the law and constitution of the country. He was of opinion that parliament had a right to call upon all public authorities, generally, for any information they could afford; but if a particular specification were necessary, the noble secretary of state was, from his office, better qualified than any other person to say how that ought to be done, and might teach his noble friend how to reach his object.Lord Holland
 said, that the House certainly possessed the right of calling for information; but when a noble lord proposed that such a call should be made, he ought at least to explain distinctly what he meant to call for.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he had purposely framed the motion in as general terms as possible, because it was his object to reach all grants in reversion of sinecures and places of every kind. His wish was, to obtain returns of those grants which were not made directly by the Crown: but as he understood that there was no intention: to oppose the principle of this motion, he would withdraw it, with the view of bringing it forward, on a future occasion, in a shape which he hoped would be more satisfactory to their lordships.Earl Grosvenor
 having moved the third reading of this bill,Lord Sidmouth
de novo;419 said, there were circumstances connected with this bill which, as it appeared to him, would render the passing of it at this time, and in its present shape, very improper. He thought it unfair towards the parties who were
de novo;419Lord Holland
 did not consider the objection of sufficient weight to delay the passing of the bill. The noble lord admitted, that if the bill had been to continue an existing act, it would not have been necessary to do more than recite the title of such act; and, in fact, this was also all that was required for the renewal of an expired law: for by an act introduced by the late Mr. Perceval, it was provided, that in any act purporting to continue another, it should be sufficient to recite merely the title of the previous statute, though it should have expired before the continuing act passed. The present bill, therefore, would, on its being passed, have the force of law in the same manner as if all the provisions of the expired law had been recited in it. The noble lord must, therefore, perceive, that the present bill was unexceptionable, for it not only proposed to revive, but to continue, the former act.The Lord Chancellor
[420de facto, notwithstanding what had been said by the learned lord, was of opinion that, as this was [420de factoLord Holland
 thought it very extraordinary, that a bill which on the face of it professed to revive, should be regarded as the same as a merely continuing bill. He should have expected the learned lord to propose to strike out every thing relative to the revival of the former act. If he approved of the bill, he would make a motion to that effect; but it was not for him to seek to correct a bill which he disapproved and considered altogether unjust.The Earl of Lauderdale
 was satisfied, if he understood Mr. Perceval's act, that the wording of the present bill was perfectly correct. It proposed both to continue and revive. All that could be objected to it, therefore, was, that it contained more words than were necessary; but he did not consider that a reason for delaying the measure by striking out the superfluous words.The Lord Chancellor
 did not consider Mr. Perceval's as strictly applicable to the present bill, which distinctly professed to revive an expired law. He, besides, thought it necessary that the provisions of the former act should be recited, in order that the law might be known.Lord Holland
 having laid on the table, an Additional Paper relative to the payment of the pecuniary indemnity by France to the Allied Powers under the convention signed at Aix-la-Chapelle, on the 9th of October 1818,The Earl of Liverpool
423 wished to ask the noble earl, first, whether any paper had been laid upon the table respecting the slave trade; and next, for some explanation respecting the documents which had been laid before the House. He did not mean to desire an explanation of the language
423Lord Holland
, with reference to the question respecting the slave trade, stated, that he expected shortly to be enabled to lay papers upon that subject before the House. The other question of the noble lord he had no hesitation in answering. The treaty of holy alliance was signed at Paris, in 1815, personally by the sovereigns of Austria, Russia and Prussia, without the intervention of any ministers, and was communicated to this government. It being, however, contrary to the constitution of this country, for the Prince Regent, acting in the name of the sovereign, to sign an autographic treaty, without the intervention of a responsible minister, intimation to that effect was transmitted to the other sovereigns, stating, at the same time, that the treaty alluded to was in conformity with the disposition of the British government; and this government had since indirectly acceded to it. It certainly, however, was not his intention to lay upon the table a copy of the Treaty of Holy Alliance.The Earl of Liverpool
[424 thought, that their lord-
[424Lord Holland
 said, he had already stated, that this country was no party to the treaty in question: it followed of course that it could not be regularly called for by their lordships. It certainly had not been his intention to produce it, nor was he aware of any ground on which it could be laid before the House. The reference to principles to which the noble lord had alluded, was merely to those on which the allied powers had all along publicly acted.The Earl of Liverpool
 was sorry the noble secretary of state was not disposed to give their lordships this information. He was extremely anxious to see what were the bonds of Christian fraternity to which the protocol he had alluded to referred.Lord Holland
461 said, he held in his hand a Petition complaining of a great hardship, and one which in a particular manner, called for their lordships attention as it arose out of their lordships' legislation. The petition was from two individuals who had obtained a decree of the court of chancery for the sale of the estate of a lunatic, but which could not be effected, as the estate consisted of copyhold property. It appeared, that in the act passed some years ago, for regulating the power and jurisdiction of the court of chancery with respect to the sale of the estates of lunatics, that the word "copy-hold" had, by some mistake, been omitted. The consequence of this neglect was, that no sales of such property could be made. The petitioners prayed, that their lord-
461The Marquis of Lansdowne
 was of opinion that there was no intention to exclude copyhold property from the operation of the act; and as such a mistake had occurred, he was surprised that no bill had been introduced, either to declare that the act referred to should embrace copyhold property, or to repeal it, and substitute a new act on the subject. The bill was brought into parliament by the present lord chancellor of Ireland, and it was recommended in the master's report on the subject, that copyhold estates should be applied in the way provided for by the act. As it was certain that it had been originally intended to include copyhold estates in the act, it was proper that it should be amended; and his lordship, as we understood, intimated that he would himself introduce a bill for this purpose.The Lord Chancellor
 said, he held in his hand an account connected with the subject to which the noble marquis referred, and on Monday intended to lay on the table further accounts, which would constitute the greater part of the returns ordered on the motion of the noble marquis. Their lordships would recollect, that the motion of the noble marquis was for the prison returns until the end of the year 1818, and these, as he had already informed the House, could not be expected to be made up until a considerable time after the meeting of parliament, most of the returns for England were made up, but they were not quite complete. The major part for Scotland had also been made, but very few had been received from Ireland. He should on Monday lay all the returns made on the table, and would on Thursday next move, that they be referred to a committee.Lord Sidmouth
 said, that the motion he made last session had for its object not only to obtain returns from all the prisons under the control of sheriff's, but all prisons in the country of every description. He had some apprehension, from the information he had received, that returns had not been made from prisons under local jurisdiction.The Marquis of Lansdowne
 was not aware of the cases to which the noble marquis alluded, but if it should be found that the returns were not made in the spirit of the order of the House, it would be for their lordships to see that such a neglect was promptly corrected. For his own part, he could assure their lordships, that he would do every thing in his power to attain full and accurate returns, with as much expedition as was practicable.Lord Sidmouth
[512511, in submitting to their lordships the motion of which he had given notice, felt that it would not be necessary for him to advert to the papers presented by the noble secretary of state, relative to the conventions concluded at Aix-la-Chapelle with the principal powers of the continent. He would only observe, that after looking at these papers, and seeing the little prospect they afforded of any effectual assistance from those powers towards the complete abolition of the Slave-trade, it was the more incumbent on their lordships not to suffer the advan-
[512511The Marquis of Lansdowne
[514 declared, that no person could be more disposed than he was, to pay due respect to any statement made by a noble lord in that House; but, notwithstanding the anxiety now attributed to his majesty's ministers, to confine themselves within the limits which the law imposed, and giving them full credit for the circumspection with which they had acted in the present case, he could not help thinking, that what had fallen from the noble viscount, instead of tending to lull their lordships into a confident tranquillity, with respect to the conduct of ministers, was calculated to excite all their vigilance, for the purpose of compelling those ministers to carry the treaties in question fully and fairly into effect. The noble viscount had said, that it was impossible to take any steps under the treaties, until they were sanctioned by parliament, and an act on the subject had passed; but as ministers knew the state in which the question stood with respect to the treaties, it would have been well had they taken the trouble, early in the last session, to have explained the neces-
[514Lord Holland
 thought it necessary to Say a few words, in consequence of what had fallen from the noble lord opposite. As to the appointment of commissioners, their lordships would not fail to see that the selection of persons for that situation must have depended on the remuneration which was to be allowed to them. Now, until the salary was fixed by act of parliament, it was impossible to say, with any precision, what it would be, and therefore no engagement could have been previously made. He could assure their lordships that no time had been lost. After the passing of the act, every effort had been made to appoint the commissioners, but he never knew an instance of so much difficulty in finding proper individuals to fill the situation. The act of parliament allowed superannuation; and some individuals, before they accepted the appointment, stipulated for that advantage after a period of service so short, that nothing could have induced him to approve the agreement, but the difficulty of finding persons calculated to execute the duties of the situation. From what had been said, their lordships would perceive, that no time had been lost in appointing the commission; and he could assure them, that none would be lost in carrying the act fully into execution.The Earl of Liverpool
 insisted that ministers ought to have proceeded sooner to the appointment of the commissioners, as they must have been aware that parliament would not have refused to sanction the treaty. There was no difficulty with regard to the salaries, for there were hundreds of instances in which ministers had made eventual engagements on an understanding of what a salary was to be. In many cases of the commissions, the names of the commissioners and their salaries were well known before the bill for appointing them was introduced into parliament.The Marquis of Lansdowne
649[648647[646 rose to call their lordships attention to the papers which he had, in obedience to the commands of the Prince Regent, laid on the table, in pursuance of the address; moved by the noble marquis opposite for the returns of the State of Prisons and Penitentiary houses. He had the satisfaction of stating that the manner in which these setups appeared to be made, was calculated to remove the apprehension which the noble marquis had entertained, of some inaccuracy in drawing them up. From
649[648647[646Lord Sidmouth
[652651 said, he had heard the speech of the noble viscount with great satisfaction, and was glad he had taken up the subject. It was with much satisfaction he found, that the object which he had to view, when he first addressed their lordships on the subject, came now recommended to them by greater authority. He must, however, observe, that the nature of the inquiry proposed by the noble viscount greatly exceeded, in magnitude and extent, that which he meant to propose. The noble viscount's motion referred all the papers on the table, relating not timely to prisons, but to the increase of crimes, to the committee. In one limited sense this latter part of the inquiry would be of advantage, in enabling their lordships to ascertain how far the state of the prisons was adequate to the increase of offences; but to go into all the causes of crimes, would be an inquiry of too large a description to lead to any speedy of practical result. The noble viscount had adverted to persons who, he said, supposed that the state of prisons was the only cause of the increase of crimes. Who those persons were, he was at a loss to know. The only opinion he had ever heard held on the subject was, not that the state of prisons was the only cause, but that it was a great accessory and accelerating cause of this evil, it was because the other causes require? too deep a consideration that he objected to going into that part of the inquiry. It would be better were their lordships to confine themselves to a cause which they could reasonably hope to remove. Unless the committee received a far larger instruction than appeared in the reference of the noble viscount, it would be impossible for them to investigate all the causes of the increase of crimes; and if they did obtain sufficient authority, the inquiry would be too tedious to produce that prompt remedy which the case required and which, by confirming their inquiry, they might speedily apply. If they were to go into the consideration of the criminal law, there were about seven hundred and fifty acts' which they would have to examine. They would have to inquire how far these laws were consistent with their object; how far many of them were inconsistent with each other; and how far they might be found capable of carrying with them the feelings and opinion of the public. They would have to
[652651The Marquis of Lansdowne
[654653 said, that in rising to propose the appointment of the committee which, en a former occasion, he had postponed, from a consideration of the thinness of the House, he was glad to see a greater num-
[654653Lord Kenyon
 explained what he meant on a former occasion, by saying, that if the children were treated with the cruelty described by the petitioners, they might apply for the protection of the common law. He had not argued against the motion of the noble lord, but had merely, stated, that the evils complained of, if they existed to the extent described, came? under the provisions of the common law; and that those who inflicted them, ought to be informed that they were exposing themselves to the punishment Which it prescribed for such cases of Cruelty. He gave no opinion then on the necessity of inquiry, but merely that the offence of overworking children was one indictable at common law. He saw no reason Why the master cotton manufacturers and the' master chimney-sweepers should have different principles applied to them than were applied to other trades. A general law ought to be passed, if necessary, for the regulation of manufacturers of all' kinds; but it might happen that a particular law, applicable only to children in one trade, might expose them to greater evils than those from which it was intended to protect them. In a country paper he had seen a feeling description of the hardships to which climbing-boys were subjected; but there was no pity expressed for boys compelled to descend into coalpits at three or four o'clock in the morning.The Lord Chancellor
655 entered into a detailed examination of the question, and argued with great force against the motion, expressing a hope that, though the proposition of the noble mover were adopted, the measure which he expected to ground upon it would be resisted. The prayer of the petitions now on the table was not limited to the regulation of the labour of children, but included that of adults. He asked, what would be the consequence of interfering with labour in other cases, so as to fix the rate of wages —which, in fact, a limitation of the hours of labour would amount to. The proposed inquiry, if it took place, should be general. He objected to the motion; but so far from considering himself an enemy of the children who were the objects of the proposed inquiry, he reckoned himself their friend; as they were improved in health, number, and comfort by the free disposal
655The Earl of Rosslyn
 argued warmly and eloquently in support of the motion. Urged, he said, by a regard for the temporal as well as spiritual concerns of a great body of people in his diocese, he had, since the agitation of the question last year, made it a point to visit all the cotton factories within his reach, and be was satisfied that the length of time which the children were obliged to labour, was not only injurious to their health, but destructive to their lives. The right rev. prelate entered feelingly into a discussion, of the objections brought forward against the bill of last session.The Bishop of Chester
 said, that if their lordship agreed to the motion, they would do an act fatal to the best interests of the country. It would be an act of the greatest, inhumanity to those children whose interests they wished to protect. He was most anxious that they should not interfere with the great principle of free labour. If they consented to pass, this measure, declaring that the children should not work. beyond a certain time, it would be expected that the hours of labour should be reduced, and that the wages should not be diminished. Most of the persons employed in these factories were children. Two-thirds were children under, the age of 16; five-sixths were children under the age of 20, With regard to the law on this subject, the learned lord on the woolsack had said, that by the common law, no man could treat children with cruelty. The right rev. prelate declared, that this might be true, in theory. Now, he must say, that if the law did not reach the case it was the wish of the petitioners that it should be made to extend to it. They merely desired that their case should be fully understood. He was convinced that generally speaking, the limitation of hours might be effected without the interference of the legislature, and therefore it would be highly impolitic and, dangerous to legislate on the subject of free labour.Earl Grosvenor
[656 said, that this was no question of free labour. It was preposterous to take of these poor children as free agents. If their lordships adopted
[656The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that in every part of the country where cotton factories were established, parents were anxious to send their young children to them, under the idea that they were better taken care of than in any other situation. Sir Robert Peel had never thought of this measure till Mr. Owen had recommended it to him, and sir Robert was much better qualified to judge of its merits than any other person. Upon the whole, he war decidedly, hostile to the motion; and he should therefore move, by way of amendment that there be inserted the words, "silk, hardware, and other manufactures, and also to inquire into the laws respecting the same, and to report their opinion thereupon to the House."The Earl of Lauderdale
primâ facie said, that their lordships had heard one party, and they should now hear the other. "Audi alteram partem" should be written in golden letters not only in every court of judicature but on the walls of every legislative body. In the last session their lordships had received a bill from the Commons, and by reading it a second time, they had admitted that there was primâ facieLord Holland
763[762761 rose, pursuant to the order of the day, to move the thanks of the House to the marquis of Hastings, governor-general of India, and the officers and troops under his command, for their conduct during the late war in India. The papers on the table had informed their lordships of the origin, progress, and termination of the hostile operations, and it would not be necessary for him to enter into the great variety of details which those documents embraced. He did not, however, think himself warranted to call for a vote of thanks, without stating what had been the general nature of the transactions which had occurred, and the result of the military operations. Their lordships would see from the correspondence, that the late hostilities in India originated in necessary measures of self-defence, adopted by the government of India against the aggressions of the Pindarries, a body consisting of about 30,000 men, subject to no regular discipline, and having, in fact, no national existence. These troops invaded the territories in the neighbourhood of the British possessions, solely for the purposes of devastation and plunder, and had continued these depredations for several preceding years; so that, instead of being hasty in repelling them, it would have been justifiable to have taken measures against them at a much earlier period. But the peace policy adopted by this country, and a strong sentiment that if hostilities once broke out in any part of India, it would be impossible to prevent them from being carried to a great extent, induced the governor-general to avoid as long as possible any thing like hostile measures. At last, in 1816, the Pindatrries invaded the British territory in the presidency of Madras, burned some villages, and laid waste the country. It was now absolutely necessary to resort to measures of self-defence. The marquis of Hastings, however, received information that the measures necessary to repel the Pindarries might lead to war with certain
763[762761The Earl of Liverpool
765[764 felt great satisfaction in being prepared to give his full approbation to the motion, with one qualification, which he should by-and-by state, and which was founded in no objection to the general grounds upon which the noble secretary of state had called upon their lordships to concur in this vote. It was particularly gratifying to him, that in giving his support to the motion, he was not called upon to express any opinion on that system which had led to the increase of the British territorial power in India. The principles on which that extension of power had been objected to and defended, had been of great importance in the past, and would be in the future history of this country. He was glad that any question involving these principles was avoided; for were he called upon to decide on such a question. He should he desirous of more time and deliberation than could be devoted to the consideration of this motion. Whatever might be the character of the policy which hail been adopted with respect to India, the governor-general had on this occasion been placed in a situation which rendered hostilities on his part unavoidable. The Pindarries so far differed from the other powers in India, that they were essentially predatory; and it was evident, that while they were allowed to continue in force, there could be no safety for the British possessions. Their lordships and the country would therefore, doubtless, join with the noble earl in applauding the measures which had been adopted by the governor-general, who had displayed the most consummate ability, on a field of operations more extensive than it had ever fallen to the lot of any one commander to direct; and who, in terminating the war, had placed the British power in India, on a more secure foundation than that on which it heretofore reposed.
765[764The Marquis of Lansdowne
767[766 said, he would give his most cordial vote to the first resolution—a resolution in which he was not only prompted by inclination, but called upon in duty to concur. There never was a vote of parliamentary thanks to which he gave his assent, in which he felt that duty more imperative or that pleasure more sincere. He had his notions on the lawfulness of our title to our Indian empire, and on the principles on which its administration was conducted, which, whether right or wrong, he was not now called
767[766Lord Holland
[768, in proposing the vote of thanks to general Hislop, begged to say a few words on the amendment suggested by the noble marquis. If that amendment could be construed into any thing like a qualification of thanks to the gallant general, for his exertions in the war, he would give it his decided negative. Taking the case as it stood, the act might admit of some explanation. In the first place, there was an act of treachery committed, by which there had taken place a great sacrifice of lives. If the killedar was a party to it, he deserved the punishment which he had received; but it did not appear in the dispatch that he was a party to it. The government was so impressed with this idea, that they had sent out instructions to institute farther inquiry into the fact. In the second place, the conduct of general Hislop was approved of by the marquis of Hastings. The noble lords opposite had said they would agree to a vote of qualified approbation; and this was probably all that could be expected without further information; but government; felt great difficulty in determining how far such a thing could be done. These votes were sent out to the governor-general of India, who transmitted copies of them to the different commanders of regiments or detachments, who read them to the troops; and to qualify the thanks would thus expose the gallant general to the suspicion of the whole army. The noble lord bad spoken in high terms of the great and good qualities of the governor-general and commander-in-chief, to every word of which he would subscribe. If there ever was a man of even what he might call sensitive humanity, it was the marquis of Hastings; and yet he gave unqualified approbation to the conduct of
[768The Earl of Liverpool
769 said, that to meet the view of the noble duke, he was willing to omit that part of his amendment which implied an instruction to the commander-in-chief to make further
769The Marquis of Lansdowne
 said, that his object in opposing the amendment was, to destroy the necessity which the latter part of it would impose on the commander to bring sir T. Hislop to trial. He did not object to any demand for farther information, nor did he wish to pledge the House to an approval of the act referred to without such additional information.The Duke of Wellington
prima facie professed his entire concurrence in the tribute of approbation bestowed upon the marquis of Hastings, for his conduct of the late war in India. There could not remain a doubt in the minds of those acquainted with the facts, but that the wisdom of the plan on which it was commenced, and the vigour of its execution, merited the highest praise. The noble duke said he was pleased, that an opportunity like the present had occurred to do justice to the services and gallantry of our troops in India, which were often neglected or disallowed. No troops in the world performed their duty better, or observed a more steady discipline. They had evinced their good qualities in all their late transactions, whether acting in great masses or small detachments. In all situations they had nobly performed their duty. With regard to the conduct of sir Thomas Hislop in executing the killedar of Talnier, he could not take the same view as the noble lords opposite. That gallant officer had acquired a high character for his services, both in India and other parts of the world; and in the late war which was now under their lordships' consideration, he had performed the chief part in the engagement which decided the ultimate success of our arms. His conduct therefore, deserved to be viewed with a partial eye, and the act for which he was blamed seemed prima facieThe Duke of Wellington
[852§851[850l849 rose to call the attention of the House to the measures which had been adopted by the colonial legislatures, in consequence of the address of that House, in June, 1816. Their lordships would recollect, that the address of 1816 arose out of the unfortunate transactions which had occurred in the island of Barbadoes. It was the great object of that address to induce the colonies to adopt measures calculated to prevent their recurrence. The address accordingly expressed a wish that his majesty's government would recommend to the colonial governments the carrying into execution some measures for preventing the illegal importation of slaves, and for the improvement of those already existing in the islands. With regard to the first object of the address,
[852§851[850l849Lord Holland
ll855ll said, that the noble lord who had in so able a manner brought forward this question, had done him nothing but justice in attributing to him a sincere wish for the religious and moral improvement of the negroes. He could not, however, agree with the noble lord in the manner in which he had proposed to communicate that religious instruction. The noble lord had been too ready in concluding that recourse ought to be had to sectaries, and that temporal rewards were necessary to induce clergymen of the church of England to perform their duty. The church of England had as yet had very little opportunity of making efforts in the colonies. The clergymen appointed for Jamaica had, in some publications, been blamed for not doing more than they had yet accomplished; but what was expected of them was really beyond their physical powers. There were in Jamaica 19 parishes of great extent, each of these parishes was from 30 to 40 miles long, and about 20 or 30 broad. It was not possible, therefore, for any man to maintain that sort of communication with the population of such parishes as might subsist between a clergyman and the population of a parish in England. When he was informed of the act granting 300ll855llThe Bishop of London
 explained, that in using the words "temporal inducements," he meant what was admitted, that the salary was thought insufficient for persons educated for the church of England. He had, therefore, recommended the Moravian brethren as a means of removing that difficulty. The noble secretary of state was not correct in saying that he thought a competent knowledge in the Christian religion necessary to the admission of negroes to give evidence in courts of justice. He had given no opinion on that question. He had merely said, that many persons were of opinion, that a considerable degree of religious instruction must precede any improvement in the condition of the slaves, and it was with the view of conciliating that opinion that he had suggested the plan which he had briefly described.Lord Holland
[854ll853 applauded the moderation and judgment with which the noble lord had brought forward his motion, and was convinced that the important object he had in view, would best be obtained by giving time to the colonial legislatures to mature the measures they were disposed to adopt. With respect to the registering of slaves, the colonies had passed acts. These acts differed from each other, and that very difference was a proof of a sincere disposition to attain the object which had been recommended to them, and also that, when they did not accomplish all that had been recommended, the deviation proceeded from no concerted design. In this last respect they all differed in one point, from the recommendation to enact that slaves not found in the register should be immediately declared free. No clause to that effect was to be found in any of the acts: but it was provided that, after being detained one year, if not claimed, they should then be free. A clause in the different acts, that a copy of every register should be sent to this country, was a most desirable object. Since these registration acts had been passed by the colonial assemblies, it was in the contemplation of his majesty's government to recommend other measures to be adopted here. They would propose the passing an act making all sales of estates contracted for in this country void and illegal, unless a description of the slaves on the estate accompanied the sale. If there appeared to be any staves on the estate which were not included in the colonial register, such slaves should be held not to be made over to the purchaser. As
[854ll853Earl Bathurst
[902 was sorry to hear that the noble lord was determined to push the present bill onwards at this time Their lordships had lately heard complaints of the encouragement given to machinery, in preference to manual industry. Now, though he differed most completely from those who cherished the prejudice he alluded to—though he was convinced that the introduction of machinery had not only had the effect of enriching the proprietor, but also of enabling the workman to live better and cheaper than he otherwise could have done—yet there certainly was some difference to be drawn between their encouraging and enforcing the adoption of machinery, and especially when those persons who best understood its application in the way of trade were against its introduction at all. This species of legislation he would resist to his latest breath; and he could only account for its introduction on the score that every man who got into parliament thought himself bound to propose some novel measure, in order to become popular—a notion or persuasion, or whatever else it might be called, than which none had ever been conceived more mischievous to the interests of the people, nor more degrading to the dignity of the legislature. If their lordships were determined to adopt such a course, they must introduce a code of moral legislation unknown to their ancestors, and quite unsuited to their habits and laws. The better way, in his judgment, would be to leave reforms of this kind entirely to the moral feeling of, perhaps, the most moral people, on the whole face of the earth. At all events, he disliked a prophetic legislation, which pre-supposed that our
[902The Earl of Lauderdale
 thought that if the measure was proper to be adopted, it should now receive the sanction of parliament; for, if two years were suffered to elapse, parliament might then suppose that it had been postponed as injudicious and impolitic. Possibly he might, in supporting the present bill, be accused of inconsistency, having appeared to adopt a different course with regard to the children employed in cotton factories; but the cases were essentially different. In that of the climbing boys, actual inhumanity was practised, but in that of the cotton-spinners, no objection of that nature was made, and their employment, however injurious it might eventually prove to health, was not accompanied by positive cruelty.Earl Grosvenor
 was sorry that he could not give his support to this bill. Before their lordships made up their minds to pass it, he hoped they would well consider what was said by the surveyor-general in his report, namely "that the total abolition of climbing boys in the sweeping of chimnies was at present impracticable, and could not be attempted without incurring much risk of danger to the general safety of the metropolis." This opinion, from such an authority, made him hesitate to concur with his noble friend in voting for this bill.Lord Melville
903 was surprised to hear an objection made to the bill, on the ground of its being prospective. That was a quality common to many acts, and in a measure of this nature was unavoidable; for time must be allowed for making the alterations in flues to which at present machinery could not be applied. If, when the time arrived, further time should appear necessary for accomplishing this object, parliament could suspend the operation of the present bill. The noble earl had objected to legislating on feeling; but if in this case their lordships were convinced that there existed a great mass of human misery, which it was in their power to remove, it was their duty to act on that view. What relation had this principle of action to the introduction of a moral code? It was not proposed to pass a law with reference to moral conduct
903The Earl of Harrowby
901[900, in rising to move the second reading of this bill, expressed his sincere hope that time and reflection had removed the objections which existed to this measure in the last session. The present bill was the same, with the exception of a few clauses, as that which had then come before their lordships, and the consideration of those clauses he should reserve for the committee. The principal means by which the object of this bill was proposed to be attained, was, by repealing the act of the 28th of the king, and limiting the number of apprentices. After the 1st of May 1821, the use of climbing-boys, except for the purpose of examining chimnies, would be done away altogether. This prohibition naturally gave rise to two questions; first, whether it was necessary for the protection of the boys employed in sweeping chimnies; and, secondly, whether it was consistent with the security of houses against fire, that it should be enforced. Upon the first of these questions, he could not anticipate any difference of opinion: it was impossible to see the unfortunate children to whom the bill applied, hourly in the streets, without experiencing the most painful emotions. Who could read the evidence which detailed the great privations and distress which they endured, without wishing to rescue them from such a state of degradation and misery? Their lordships would never permit their fellow-creatures to continue subject to such tortures as those to which
901[900Lord Auckland
[984983 said, he was always disposed to give public bodies, as well as individuals, credit for acting with a due regard to their own interests. Now, if their lordships looked at the case on this principle, they would soon discover, that the insurance offices would have reason to be well pleased at the passing of this bill. It would increase the danger of fire, and in proportion to the risk, the rate of the insurance and the number of; insurances would augment. In fact, the bill promised to open to them a fruitful source of gain. It was absurd, therefore, to found any argument on these corporations not petitioning against it. The supporters of the bill contended, that the chimnies of the metropolis could be nearly all swept by machines. Now, were this the fact, he would at once withdraw his opposition; but, if the report of the surveyor-general was to be relied on, no such power was to be attributed to the machines. Colonel Stephenson had distinctly stated, that the total abolition of climbing boys was at present impracticable, and could not be attempted without endangering the general safety of the metropolis. But it will be replied, that it is not intended that the bill shall operate immediately; that in passing it, time will be afforded for the preparation of machinery; but colonel Stephenson's report contained satisfactory
[984983The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, he was not able to entertain their lordships with any jokes, either relative to himself, or extracted from Joe Miller, but he believed very little was necessary to be said to induce them to support a measure founded in humanity, and which they had reason to conclude was perfectly practicable. He could not, however, refrain from observing, that the noble earl had, in some measure, shifted the ground of his opposition to the bill. He new dwelt solely on the danger which might be incurred in the metropolis if sweeping boys were abolished. What then had become of those general principles respecting free-labour, on which the noble earl had so strongly insisted? Of those principles the noble earl now said nothing. The best argument for the bill was, that it would afford time and opportunity for making the arrangements necessary to the abolition of climbing boys. A sufficient time was allowed for experiments; and if the bill passed, every person, in anticipating the abolition of the present inhuman practice, would be induced to try the machines. If he saw any danger to the metropolis from the measure, he should be as unwilling to support it as any noble lord; but he could perceive no ground for any such apprehension. He thought, however, that unless the bill passed, the experiment would never be fairly made.The Earl of Harrowby
[982 said, that no argument of any weight against the bill had been urged which was not fully answered. He should, however, take the liberty of adverting to the facts which had since occurred, and which tended to prove what he had before observed, namely, that whatever prejudices existed against the; use of machinery, was generally among persons unacquainted with its use; and that as appeal to experiment was always sure to overcome that prejudice.
[982Lord Auckland
 presented a petition from Dysart against the equalization of the coal duties. He observed, that great apprehension had been excited throughout the country by the proceedings which had taken place for the purpose of altering the present system of coal-duties, and levying a tax at the pits. He hoped, therefore, that the noble lord opposite would explain what were the views of ministers on the subject.The Earl of Rosslyn
993 said, that Whatever apprehension might have arisen on the subject, no proposition of the kind alluded to had received any countenance from his majesty's government. More than twelve months ago an association had been formed in the metropolis, with the view of obtaining an equalization of the duties on coals. A committee from that association had waited on him and his right hon. friend the chancellor of the exchequer, and stated the nature of their object. His right hon. friend had concurred with him in declining to give any opinion until those who were interested in opposing the proposed measure should, be heard. On hearing the other parties be and his right hon. friend had intimated
993The Earl of Liverpool
 presented a petition against any alteration in the coal-duties, signed by a great number of the merchants; manufacturers, canal share holders, &c. of Sheffield and its neighbourhood.Earl Fitzwilliam
 observed, that it was impossible for him to say, whether or not any proposition on the subject would be made in another place, what degree of encouragement might there be given to it, or whether it was likely to come in any shape before their lordships. He could, however, assure the House, that any proposition for the equalization of the duties on coal would meet with the decided opposition of those connected with the administration of his majesty's government.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that the equalization called for would be one of the most injurious and unjust acts that could be committed. In the state in which this country was placed, their lordships would not attempt to legislate on the view of right and wrong, abstractedly considered; the application of the abstract, principles of justice would be the greatest injustice. They could not now act as they might do, if capital had not been sunk in manufactures and extensive works of various kinds in the districts, on which the proposed regulation would impose a new and burthensome tax. The present state of society in this country was so extremely artificial, that the greatest caution was necessary on subjects of this kind. He hoped that the declaration which had been made by the noble secretary of state would set Sheffield and other manufacturing towns at ease on this question. The people in these places had embarked their capital in undertakings on the faith of the continuance of the present system, with respect to the duties on fuel, which their manufactories required, and nothing could be more ruinous and unjust than to subject them to a tax on that necessary element.The Earl of Lauderdale
[994 rose to more the second reading of this bill.
[994Lord Sidmouth
 could not help expressing his surprise at finding this bill proposed for a second reading, before any i motion had been made for printing it. The noble lord conceived, that if the bill did not pass, the House would prejudge the question at issue in the court in Scotland. He was quite of a different opinion. If their lordships refrained from legislating they would leave the question just where it stood last year, before any bill on the subject was introduced. The passing, in so hasty a manner, a bill for suspending an existing law, was more like prejudging the question; and if it were now read a second time, he should consider it extremely unjust in the House to allow it to go through another stage, before it was printed, and time afforded for fully considering its principle. Their lordships must recollect, that the law which first gave occasion to the present measure was so little known to the noble secretary of state, that he did not introduce it until the Alien bill of the last session was about to pass the House.Lord Holland
995 thought that the noble lord had misunderstood both the nature of the bill and the argument of his noble friend. The state of the case was this: Last year it was stated that a certain law existed in Scotland which would render the provisions of the Alien act inefficient. A bill had, therefore, been introduced, to suspend the rights supposed to be acquired under that law. A suit was now before the court of session in Scot-
995The Earl of Liverpool
 thought that if the noble lord meant to give the House full opportunity of judging of the principle of the bill, he would not press it farther until it was printed. The bill was, on the face of it, of a nature unlike any measure ever recommended to their lordships adoption. That a case for which a remedy was open in a court of law ought not to be interfered with by the legislature, was a principle generally acknowledged Here the House was informed that the question was before a court in Scotland; their lordships were therefore bound to wait for the decision of that court, before they ventured to legislate in any way whatever. He was taken quite by surprise. In order that time might be afforded for printing the bill, and an opportunity given to their lordships to consider it fairly, he would move, that instead of now, the bill be read a second time on Friday next.The Earl of Lauderdale
 urged the necessity of proceeding with the bill. The court in Scotland would decide either for or against the claims of the persons who had purchased bank stock. If the latter, no injury would be done to them by this bill: if the former, it would become the duty of their lordships to alter the law, and prevent persons from obtaining by such means rights which were more extensive than those conferred by a bill of naturalization.The Earl of Harrowby
1111 presented the petition of the Protestants of the city of Dublin, and also another petition from the Protestant nobility, gentry, freeholders, &c; resident in Ireland, in favour of the Roman Catholic claims. The noble marquis said, that the petitions were most numerously and respectably signed. The resident Protestant population thus came forward to
1111The Marquis of Downshire
[1112 not having signed the petition of the Protestant landholders, considered himself called upon, in consequence of what had fallen from the noble earl, to state that he was one of a great number of landed proprietors not residing in Ireland who fully participated in the sentiments of that petition. He would have readily signed the petition, had it been thought proper for him so to do, as a non-resident proprietor. If any body of petitioners ever were, entitled to respect, it was those who had signed this petition—men who came
[1112The Marquis of Lansdowne
1113 said, that he also would have signed the petition, had it been within the scope of the petitioners to have the signatures of landed proprietors who were not resident in Ireland. He hailed the petition with the greatest satisfaction, considering it as a great step gained in behalf of that liberal
1113The Marquis of Buckingham
 expressed his satisfaction at the manner in which the spirit of conciliation which animated the Protestants had been met by the Catholics, and hoped that their demands, for which justice, humanity, and policy equally pleaded, would be granted,The Earl of Darnley
 could not consider the petition as coming from the great body of the Protestant interest of Ireland. The names of many of the principal Protestant landholders did not appear as subscribers. Not a single landholder in the county in which he lived, one of the most Protestant counties in Ireland, had signed it. He should probably soon have occasion to present a counter-petition.The Earl of Enniskillen
[1162 said, he understood the motions he was about to bring forward would not be opposed, and he should therefore merely state, in a few words, his reason for making them. He was fully aware of the necessity for economy in every branch of the public service, but if there was any one branch more than another that the public would feel least disposed to stint, it was the naval service, and he thought it would be found that this service had been reduced too low; for he was afraid, from the late arrangements with respect to the guard-ships, that if the occasion required, not even two ships, of the line Could be tent to sea properly manned and
[1162The Earl of Darnley
 had no objection to the motions, nor the least disinclination to meet any inquiry upon the subject. He could confidently assert, that the navy was now in a more efficient state than it had been at a similar period after any former war; and so far from the naval establishment being reduced, the number of seamen now employed was greater than in any former peace; the number on former occasions having been 16,000, whilst it was now 20,000.Lord Melville
 warmly eulogized the conduct of his noble friend and the board of Admiralty, in placing the navy in the efficient state in which it undoubtedly was. The noble earl, perhaps, meant to allude to the employment of a part of the seamen in the prevention of smuggling; but he could assure the House, that the advantages arising from that measure had exceeded expectation, as was proved by the amount of revenue in the two great articles of illicit trade, tea and spirits. So successful, indeed, had the seamen been upon this service, that the government had been enabled to reduce some of the regiments of cavalry hitherto employed on it.The Earl of Liverpool
lll1163llll, on moving the second reading of the Royal Household Bill, said, he should merely shortly state the object of the bill, as he understood no opposition was intended to the principle of it. The saving made in the establishment of the Royal Household, by the regulations of the present bill, amounted to 50,000lll1163llllThe Earl of Liverpool
l1165l[1164 said, he did not rise to oppose the second reading of the bill, being
l1165l[1164Earl Grey
1167 said, that in the whole of his parliamentary life he had never heard any thing more unnecessary, more unwarranted, and more out of place, than the remarks of the noble earl about his loyalty. He had used no expressions which could furnish a pretext for the
1167Earl Grey
 said, he had certainly misapprehended the noble earl; for he had understood him to say, that his consent to the bill would depend solely on the reductions of the royal establishment it contained, and the relief to the country which it administered.The Earl of Harrowby
ll[1166 was sensible that the subject to which the noble earl had alluded in the latter part of his speech, was one which would best be discussed in the committee. It would then be for their lordships to consider, whether the proposition was hostile to the interests and insulting to the understanding of the public, as the noble earl called it, or one called for by a sense of justice, and of what was due to the dignity of the Crown. According to the principle laid down by the noble lord, it would be necessary for parliament to institute an investigation, in order to see how low the establishment at Windsor could be reduced, if all regard to decorum and dignity were set aside. The noble earl was willing to allow whatever night be necessary for the comfort of the royal sufferer, but nothing more. He trusted then? lordships would never pass the bill under the Idea that it was
ll[1166The Earl of Harrowby
l.l.l.1175l.l.l. said, that the bill should have his warmest support; for nothing could be more just and proper than its provisions, so far as they went. He must, however, call their lordships attention to the principle on which it was founded, and the very limited extent to which that principle was carried. The principle of the bill went to carry into effect, to a certain extent, a. measure which was but common justice towards the public, which had long been called for by the state of the finances, and which an individual of the other House (Mr. Grenfell) had, in a manner highly honourable to himself, made repeated endeavours to obtain for the country. He alluded to the efforts which had been made to procure for the public a participation in the advantages arising from the balances left in the possession of the Bank. Of that profit which the Bank ought to derive from its money transactions, in the fair course of trade, no man would wish it to be deprived; but, after the fair profit should be secured, it was but right that the public should share in the advantage arising from balances left in the Bank, and which of late years had frequently accumulated to a great amount. This bill, therefore, in this respect, was most just in principle, but at the same time extremely defective in its provisions, since it confined the application of the principle to one description of balances, namely, to balances on the growing produce of the consolidated fund, arising on money received at the receipt of the exchequer at the Bank. Why was not this principle carried to a greater extent? Why was it not applied to the balances of the customs and excise, of which at least 3,000,000l.l.l.1175l.l.l.The Marquis of Lansdowne
[1176l.l. said, that in considering the present measure, the House would recollect that the question as to the advantage the public ought to derive from the balances deposited in the Bank had been very fully considered in 1807 and 1808. An investigation then took place by a committee, the result of which was the expression of an opinion, that the public should either share in the advantage of the balances, or that the Bank should advance a certain sum by way of loan without interest. The Bank proposed a loan of 3,000,000[1176l.l.The Earl of Liverpool
l1239custos[12381237[1236llll1235ll[1234lllll1233║l[12321231 rose. Having already said that it was not his intention to make any opposition to the principle of the measure, it might be expected that he would reserve himself for another part of the bill; but, notwithstanding his approval of the principle, he had some general observations to offer, which appeared to him more particularly applicable to the present stage of the committee. After the misinterpretation that had taken place of what passed on a former occasion, it might however be necessary, before he proceeded farther, to guard himself against any misunderstanding of his views. Far from being disposed to leave out of consideration the just claims of individuals for past services, or to look with cold indifference on the unfortunate situation of the sovereign, he fully recognized all those claims, and he felt as strongly as any one could feel, that sympathy for suffering, and that sense of propriety and duty which ought to regulate their lordships in making a provision, not merely for an afflicted individual, but for him who had been, and, as the noble earl opposite the other day justly observed, still was the legal sovereign of a great, generous, and loyal people. Upon this principle he looked at the present measure; but there was another principle, in maintaining which he could not be considered
l1239custos[12381237[1236llll1235ll[1234lllll1233║l[12321231Earl Grey
lllllllll1247l[12461245lll[1244ll1243[12421241[1240 complimented the noble earl, who had just sat down on the distinct and orderly manner in which he had brought his objections forward. The noble earl had perhaps taken the most convenient opportunity of expressing his sentiments on the subject, and he (the earl of Liverpool) would therefore endeavour to follow the noble earl into all his statements and arguments, and would answer them, where they called for answer, in the same order. The noble earl had begun by stating his entire concurrence in the reductions of his majesty's household, so far as they were reductions; but had followed up that expression of his satisfaction with a charge against his majesty's ministers, for their tardiness in proposing those reductions, and for opposing them, when their necessity was formerly urged by himself (earl Grey) and his friends. Now nothing could be more unfounded than this latter accusation. He protested and declared, that he never heard till last session of parliament of any objection which the noble lords opposite made to the royal establishment at Windsor, and that he was never called upon to oppose any proposition for its reduction. From the year 1812, when that establishment was fixed by act of parliament, to the last session, the subject was never brought forward. A bill was then introduced by a right hon. friend of his in the other House which was rendered necessary by the state of her late majesty's health, and then for the first time during eight years of the continuance of the net of 1812, was any objection stated to its provisions. What right had then the noble earl, or any other noble lord, however laudable his motives in calling for reductions (and he gave him full credit for his motives) to accuse his majesty's ministers of resisting appli-
lllllllll1247l[12461245lll[1244ll1243[12421241[1240The Earl of Liverpool
[1248 remarked, that the bill now under discussion purported to be for the further regulation of the royal household, and the care of the royal person; and was the first instance on record, in which a committee of parliament had decided, not upon what should be the expense of the royal household, but upon how many servants his majesty should keep, and what should be his 'quantum of personal attendants. As that had never been the case in any previous period of our history, he was sorry that each a precedent had been established at the present time, when his majesty was labouring under a complication of maladies, on which his duty and his inclination equally forbade him to descant. It might indeed be said that a certain
[1248The Marquis of Buckingham
1251[1250l said, that on the present subject he could not deny that be entertained strong feedings. Towards the illustrious individual whose name was connected with the grant, he felt more than a strong personal attachment. It was in the nature of his Royal Highness, that those most intimately acquainted with him, who knew his many distinguished public and private qualities best, were, most firmly attached to his person, and most interested for his, feelings and his fame. But meeting this question on fair and open ground, he could not see why his Royal Highness should not receive that compensation for public service which the nature of that service required—which the dignity of the station, and the expenses incident to it, demanded. Of those expenses, he would not enter into a minute particularization of the nature or amount, but sure he was that his Royal Highness, whose generous nature was ever open to every humane appeal, would be anxious to attend to the applications of those who were in the habit of appealing to the bounty of his royal father. He therefore wished to support the grant of 10,0001251[1250lThe Earl of Lauderdale
l[1252 agreed with his noble friend who had just sat down, in the opinion respecting the dismissal of the royal servants. It was, he conceived, ill advised as a measure of economy, and in other respects not calculated to produce the end which was probably intended by it. In some of the provisions of the bill before their lordships he fully concurred; but there was one to which he could not give his consent; it was to that which made a provision for remuneration to the duke of York, as the custos of the king. In adverting to the subject, he claimed for himself as great a portion of respect for that royal personage, as any of the noble lords who concurred in the propriety of the grant. He conceived that a more fit person could not have been, selected for
l[1252The Earl of Darnley
1257[12561255[1254**1253 had not intended to trouble their lordships upon the question then before them, particularly after the speeches of his noble friends; but he was induced to offer a few remarks in consequence of an observation made by the noble earl, respecting the time at which the suggestion of reduction in the Windsor establishment was first made. It had been said, that no mention was made of those reductions which were now spoken of, till a late period of the last session, when the measure was introduced to provide for the
1257[12561255[1254**1253The Marquis of Lansdowne
, in explanation, denied that the application of part of the privy purse for the payment of debts, or for medical attendance, could be any just ground for the payment from it of a grant of the present description.The Earl of Lauderdale
ll1259l[1258 expressed his reluctance at saying any thing upon this subject, but declared that he felt himself bound to state that he considered the privy purse was as much the private property of the king as the property of any of their lordships might be said to belong to them. By the 39th and 40th of the king, his majesty was declared capable of holding private property, and empowered to buy and sell estates, to dispose of those so purchased by deed, or to bequeath them by will. The same power was given to him with respect to any personal property lie might be possessed of. If his property were held in trust, the trustees were the same in their powers, as the trustees of any private individual. The property was as liable to taxation as that of any subject. It was also declared by those acts which he had cited, that if the king should die without conveying any of his real property by deed, or disposing of it by will, then it should go as it would have gone had those acts not been passed. The same was said with respect to his personal property. He had heard a great deal about the manner in which that should be disposed of at present; but he would put it to their lordships, whether they would deprive their unfortunate sovereign in his severe affliction of that which was allowed to the humblest of his subjects—the benefit of the principle which arose from a hope of his recovery? It was because that recovery was not despaired of that the property of a lunatic was taken care of in order that it might be forthcoming at the return of his reason. Would they, he would ask, do in the case of their sovereign what would not be allowed in the instance of any other similarly afflicted? If he were asked whether this property of the privy purse, if not conveyed away by deed, or bequeathed by will, were to revert to the successor, or still be considered
ll1259l[1258The Lord Chancellor
 reprobated the manner in which the various members of the royal family had been exposed to public odium by the present cabinet. He considered this a most odious measure, and most injurious to the royal family. Ministers felt not the odium, although they alone were in fault: the 15 cabinet ministers (an unusual number) divided the blame, and each thought little of l–15th of it; and hence they were, on subjects like the present, the most pliable phalanx that could be conceived. But the greatest enemies to the Crown were those who on slight grounds proposed grants such as those now asked, and that had been asked of parliament last year. So far as they had not succeeded last year, it was a benefit to the royal family, since so far had respect towards it been unimpaired, The grant now asked was most odious in all its circumstances. It was an attempt to obtain money from the people under false pretences; it was unnecessary to the custos; it was in every public view unnecessary; and it was of all things most invidious to call for an unnecessary sum to any of the royal family in the present distressed state of the country.Lord King
l contended, that additional claims would be made upon the custos, in consequence of the deductions in this very bill. It was quite a mistake to suppose that the 10,000lThe Marquis of Bute
 said, that if the noble earl meant that the committee were unanimous in the report, he denied that, as he had dissented from it, but if the noble earl meant acquiescence in the object of the report, he undoubtedly admitted that he acquiesced in the views of those who had agreed to the report, and he should feel himself called upon to support the bill when it came before the House.The Earl of Lauderdale
 commented upon the extraordinary nature of the proposition of which notice had been given, combined with the extraordinary rapidity with which it appeared to be intended to hurry it through the House. He agreed with his noble friend (earl Grey), that ministers had by their conduct, with reference to this subject, convicted themselves either of ignorance or deceit, the measure now proposed being decidedly at variance with all that they had for some time past held out on the question of the resumption of cash payments. But what did the noble earl (Harrowby) say for this measure? Did he not institute a suit against the Bank, and by alleging that the Bank ought to be prevented from paying the notes which they had given notice they would discharge in cash, in point of fact, charge that body with having adopted a measure either in perfect ignorance of what effects would be produced, or that must necessarily retard the general resumption of cash payments; for this was the character given to these notices of the Bank by the noble earl and the committee? Amidst this inconsistency no reason had been alleged, why the House should be called upon to pass with unexampled rapidity a measure like the present, and therefore he should solemnly protest against it. He decidedly objected to the practice of neutralizing the functions of the legislature by calling upon its members to decide, in the first instance, upon measures which ought to originate with the ministers upon their own responsibility, and then come before parliament for the exercise of their discretion as to the grounds upon which such measures had been adopted. He agreed therefore that the proper course would have been for an order in council to have issued to prevent the Bank from paying in specie the notes they had given notice to pay, and then it would have been for parliament to decide upon the grounds of that measure.Lord Holland
1397 disclaimed the idea that any necessity existed on the part of the Bank for this measure. The Bank were perfectly able to make good all their engagements; nor did they desire or call for any measure of this description. It was the opinion of the committee, without reference to any desire, or otherwise, on the part of the Bank, that the object which all equally desired could not be attained within any period that was desirable, if the Bank were allowed to continue paying a certain portion of their notes in specie. This partial payment in specie so involved the question, and so precluded the obtaining the requisite information to enable the committee to form a judgment upon the subject, that it was thought essentially necessary that this partial payment in specie should be put an end to for a time, in order that the general payment in specie might be accelerated. As to the argument that this ought to have been done as in 1797, by an order in council, it was merely necessary to answer, that the two periods had no similarity. In 1797, the parliament was not sitting, and the privy council was called upon to act, in consequence of information communicated by the Bank, and they wisely restrained the Bank from paying in specie, and threw themselves upon parliament for indemnity. But how was the case now? Parliament was not only sitting, but each House had appointed a committee expressly to investigate the affairs of the Bank, which committee had been sitting for upwards of two months, and had used the greatest diligence in collecting evidence and information? How could the privy council act in such a case? How could the privy council know what evidence had been adduced before the committee? How, then, could the privy council come to any determination upon what they did not know? Had the privy council ventured upon such a step, would there not have been speeches without end from noble lords on the other side, protesting against such an unconstitutional assumption of power? He was decidedly of opinion, that it would have been contrary to all constitutional principles for the privy council to have assumed such a power during the sitting of parliament; and he could not but consider the argument of the noble earl as extremely unconstitutional. He perfectly well recollected that the assumption of such a
1397The Earl of Liverpool
 was anxious that no impression should go forth to the public, that there was any necessity for the proposed measure arising out of the affairs of the Bank. The fact was, that the Bank were perfectly able to fulfil all their engagements, and that no measure of this sort was desired on their part. It was the opinion of the committee, that by allowing a partial payment in specie to operate in the way it did, that permanent resumption of cash payments, which was so much desired, would be retarded.The Marquis of Lansdowne
 rose for the purpose of stating, that there was nothing whatever in the situation of the Bank that called for such a measure, that body being perfectly able to fulfil all its engagements. The measure was recommended on grounds that were wholly distinct front any relation to the state of the affairs of the Bank.The Earl of Lauderdale
[1398 could not agree that any ground had been stated for passing rapidly through that House such a measure as that which was to be proposed, nor could he agree that any thing short of the impending ruin of the Bank, as in 1797, could justify such a measure. He still thought, that the regular course would have been for an order in council to have issued. As to what was reported to have been said by Mr. Fox against the exercise of such a power, he could only say that he was a member of the committee in 1797, and had no recollection of any such objection having been urged by Mr. Fox. He (earl Grey) at that period said, and he was entitled to take credit to himself for his foresight, that the restriction in cash payments then imposed would not be ended in the way anticipated by some, but that it would last for a much longer period than the greater number of those who supported it looked forward to. They had now seen how long the restriction had lasted; and when it was said that this measure was to be brought forward to hasten the period of the termination of the restriction, he could not but consider that it was entirely a pretence, and that the restriction was likely to continue much longer than was now again attempted to be anticipated. He thought the measure pregnant with danger, but aware as he was that several of his noble friends took a different view of the subject, he despaired of being able to produce a contrary impression, and he doubted whether he should attend tomorrow. There being now a question before the House, the only mode he could
[1398Earl Grey
[1394 expressed his astonishment at the proposition which had so unexpectedly been made, and which had filled him with dismay and confusion. He felt it difficult, indeed, on so sudden and unlooked-for a proposition, to collect his thoughts upon the subject sufficiently to give an opinion. They were now in the fifth year of peace, and the twenty-third since the first restriction on cash payments at the Bank. After repeated promises on the part of ministers, which had never been fulfilled, they at length came to a period at the commencement of the present session, when inquiry was proposed with a view to the resumption of cash payments, which all desired; they were even told that there was a period somewhere about last October, when there would have been little difficulty in the Bank resuming cash payments, and the chancellor of the exchequer, in the House of Commons, had congratulated parliament that there was already a virtual return to cash payments effected by this very measure of paying notes dated prior to 1817. Could it possibly have been supposed, after all this that a proposition would be brought forward to annul this very measure on the part of the Bank, which was thus made the subject of so much complacent congratulation. What was to be inferred from such conduct on the part of his majesty's ministers? No other conclusion could be drawn than this—that their late conduct with regard to the Bank, their late declarations and congratulations, were founded either in folly or in fraud. Either their conduct had arisen from ignorance, or it was the result of deliberate deceit. Out of this dilemma they could not escape; either they knew nothing of the subject respecting which they promised so much, or they were deliberately deceiving those who listened to them. How was he to judge of the necessity of the measure
[1394Earl Grey
 said, he had not given any notice in his situation as one of the king's ministers, but in his capacity as chairman of the committee, by whom this report had been unanimously agreed to. Neither was there the least foundation for the supposition that this measure was required on the part of the Bank; on the contrary, there was no doubt whatever of the ability of the Bank to make good all their engagements. The reason for the measure was the opinion of the committee, that in order to ensure at the earliest period, the permanent resumption of cash payments, it was expedient to pass the measure alluded to. As to what had been said by the noble earl regarding an order in council as in 1797, there was no analogy between the two periods. In the former case, parliament was not sitting, whilst in the present, parliament was not only sitting, but had actually entered into the investigation of the subject. How, then, could it be said with any regard to constitutional principles, that the privy council ought at all to have interfered?The Earl of Harrowby
1393 presented a Report from the Secret Committee appointed by the House to inquire into the stele of the Bank with reference to the question of the Resumption of Cash Payments. The report stated the notice by the Bank of their intention of paying in cash, certain notes issued prior to 1817, which notice had been acted upon and had caused a considerable drain of specie, and recommended, with a view to
1393The Earl of Harrowby
l. brought from the Commons the bill for restraining the Bank from paying in specie the notes under 5l.Mr. Peel
 said, he would pledge himself, when the discussion of the general measure should take place, to demonstrate that this bill contained nothing in any degree at variance with the principles hitherto acted upon by his majesty's ministers with respect to financial measures and the Bank. The noble earl had yesterday expressed a doubt as to the opinion which he (lord Liverpool) had attributed to an individual with respect to the transaction which took place in 1797. He was, however, upon reflection, still more convinced, that what he had stated to be the opinion of that individual was correct. There appeared to him no room to doubt that in the discussion which took place on the measure adopted in 1797, Mr. Fox expressed it to be his opinion, that the course which ought to have been pursued was a direct application to the House of Commons. His recollection was besides farther confirmed by the statement of Mr. Fox's opinion in these historical sources of information of what passed in parliament, which had on former occasions been alluded to, and which, whatever might be the imperfections to which they were liable, might surely be relied on for a fact of this kind.The Earl of Liverpool
[1422 said, that before consenting to the present measure, he had been particularly solicitous to establish, first, the disposition on the part of the members of the committee to revert to the ancient and approved standard of value, and secondly, the means possessed by the Bank of recurring to that standard
[1422The Marquis of Lansdowne
 said, he had merely stated his impression as to what had passed in 1797. With regard to the historical sources of information to which the noble lord had referred, if he had stated them to be imperfect he could only mean that they were subject to those unavoidable inaccuracies, to which the disadvantageous circumstances under which they were obtained gave rise. He had considered the arguments of Mr. Fox to be directed altogether against the principle of the measure; and he must say, with all the respect he entertained for the memory of that great man, that he still considered an order of council preferable to a direct application to parliament.Earl Grey
1421 said, that the impression he had received on the first suggestion of the present measure remained unaltered. He could regard it in no other light than that of a renunciation of the principles of finance hitherto acted upon by the present government, and, a complete condemnation of all the steps professedly taken by his majesty's ministers and the Bank, for the
1421Earl Grey
l.l. rose to move that the standing order relative to the progress of bills be suspended, in order that the present measure might pass through its remaining stages forthwith. The noble lord described the nature of the payments which it was the object of the present bill to suspend; and argued that the stopping the partial payments the Bank was now engaged to make, would have the effect of accelerating the general resumption of payments in specie. During the period in which the Bank had been in the practice of making partial payments, between 5,000,000l.l.The Earl of Harrowby
sederunts1461§ moved the order of the day for the second reading of a bill for facilitating the administration of justice by regulating the jury court. His lordship briefly stated the origin of the act which the present bill proposed to amend. On the motion of a noble lord, a commission had some years ago been appointed to inquire into the administration of justice, and the state of the courts in Scotland. The commission recommended the introduction of the trial by jury in civil cases in Scotland. An
sederunts1461§The Lord Chancellor
109 rose to present a number of petitions from Ireland, with which he had been intrusted. They were chiefly from their lordships Catholic fellow subjects, who prayed that they might be completely raised from the state of degradation in which unjust laws had placed them, and relieved from the unfair exclusions and deprivation of civil rights which they continued to experience. It would not be proper for him to enter into the merits of the question on the present occasion; but with respect to the petitioners themselves, he could with truth say, that they represented the sentiments of the whole of the Roman Catholic population of Ireland. They were couched in language which was respectful to the legislature, and becoming for the petitioners to offer. From the petitions which had already been presented, and which remained to be offered, it appeared that the number of applications in favour of the Catholics increased, while those against them diminished. The number of petitions to parliament praying that the Catholic claims might not be granted, were few and weak, compared with those which had been presented on former occasions, notwithstanding extraordinary endeavours had been made to procure petitions hostile to the Catholics. An attempt had even been made in the city of Dublin to array his majesty's forces against his majesty's Catholic subjects, by procuring the signatures of the military to a petition. These attempts were, however, counteracted by the petitions of large bodies of Protestants in different parts of Ireland. He had a petition to offer to
109The Earl of Donoughmore
115114 had of course no intention to offer any opposition to this petition being laid on the table, and should not have felt any disposition to say a word on the subject, had not something which fell from the noble lord rendered it necessary for him to trouble their lordships with a few observations, not with the view of discussing the subject, but of preventing misunderstanding when it came to be discussed. Above all, he hoped it would not be supposed that he intended to offer any objection to the motion for laying on the table a petition which he knew to be signed by many of the most respectable individuals in the country, and with some, of whom he had lived many years in habits of friendship, and of the worthiness of the character of others he was able to bear testimony. The noble earl was perfectly correct in stating that he had acknowledged that there could be no objection to the Roman Catholics on the ground of immoral principles or doctrine. He, and those who concurred in opinion with him, opposed the claims of the Roman Catholics on constitutional principles only—on the ground that it was necessary, for the security of the church and state, that the existing laws should be maintained. Under these circumstances he should have remained silent, had not the noble lord thought proper to call their lordships' attention to a measure which passed two years ago. He was anxiously desirous to state what
115114The Earl of Liverpool
 presented several petitions from the Roman Catholics of Ireland, for the removal of the political disabilities to which they were subjected. He stated, that the hopes of that body were raised in a very high degree, that the time had at length arrived for the attainment of their proudest wishes. They could not suppose that in the present enlightened age of the world, any arguments could be successfully urged against claims which were founded on the immutable principles of justice.The Earl of Charlemont
 said, if the noble duke asserted from his own knowledge that there had been no solicitation of soldiers to sign the petition, he must of course believe it; but unless the noble duke did so, he must continue to believe that some practice of that kind had been resorted to. Why else did the commander of the depot issue the order to prevent the soldiers under his orders from interfering in any political discussion, or signing any paper.The Earl of Donoughmore
 said, he was not quite satisfied with the account which the noble earl had given of the difference between the two measures in question. Their lordships were aware, that both the measures proposed to open the army and the navy to Catholics and all dissenters. That was alike the object of the bill of 1807, and of that which passed two years ago. He was therefore justified in stating, that the measures were in substance and effect the same, though the one had caused a most extraordinary clamour, and the other had passed through both Houses with an almost silent approbation. The only distinction was this—that which he did in 1807, he did openly. He professed to open the army and navy to every description of dissenters, without the necessity of the annual Indemnity bill.Earl Grey
113112111110 rose in consequence of its being once more his duty to present to their lordships the petition of a most respectable class of individuals, praying to be relieved from the oppression of many penal laws to which they were subject, for no other reason than a conscientious adherence to the religion in which they bad been educated. They, therefore, again came forward to request that their case might be taken into consideration, and that they might be permitted to enjoy the full benefit of the British constitution, in common with their Protestant fellow subjects. This was, in nearly the same words, the same request which was humbly and respectfully made three years ago, and which he then had the honour of submitting to their lordships. The present petition was also signed by the same description of persons, namely, the nobility, gentry, great landholders, and clergy of the Roman Catholic religion. It would be found, as he was instructed to state, to contain a faithful representation of the Roman Catholics of England; and whether this petition was regarded with respect to the character of the parties from which it came, the nature and object of the prayer, or the time at which it was presented, there never had
113112111110Earl Grey
116 rose, to present a petition against the Catholic
116The Duke of Wellington
 observed, that he could of course say nothing upon the subject from his own knowledge, neither could he answer for the motive of a commander of a depot in Ireland, for issuing an order. It was possible that the order might have been issued in consequence of some trick played by the opposite party, to discredit the petition. With regard to the fact, he had the authority of the whole committee who had the management of the petition for stating, that no soldier had by their authority been solicited to sign it, nor could they discover that any soldier actually had signed it. With respect to another statement also that had been made respecting getting charity boys to sign the petition, he had the authority of the lord mayor of Dublin, and the trustees of the Bluecoat school (which his grace likewise read) for stating that it was a false and scandalous report.The Duke of Wellington
 presented a bill for securing spiritual persons in their benefices in certain cases. His grace stated, that he introduced the bill in consequence of a supposed doubt that had arisen respecting the power of granting dispensations. Supposing a spiritual person to be in possession of a benefice A, and to have subsequently obtained another benefice B, to hold which with A, he had received a dispensation from the archbishop, and supposing such spiritual person to have acquired another piece of preferment, C, which he wished to hold with B, vacating A, and to have obtained a second dispensation for that purpose from the archbishop, the doubt had arisen whether the second dispensation was not a nullity. The object of the bill therefore was, to remove this doubt, to secure spiritual persons so circumstanced in their benefices, and to prevent a lapse of patronage to the bishop, the archbishop, or ultimately to the Crown, arising from the benefices in question not having been legally rested in the incumbents.The Archbishop of Canterbury
 could not see any just ground for postponing the consideration of the report beyond the day mentioned by his noble friend; on the contrary, he thought it of the greatest importance that the earliest possible period should be chosen for bringing on this question, involving as it did so many considerations of the highest public interest. With respect to what had been said by the noble earl, of there not being time to understand the report, the fact was, that the question would be best understood after it had been discussed in that House. As to the mode of bringing on the discussion, he contended, that upon all questions of great public importance, it was by far the best course to discuss the principles which were to form the groundwork of any legislative measure respecting them, previous to bringing forward any legislative enactments. This had been the course adopted with regard to the Irish propositions, and the renewal of the charter of the East India company, and the advantages of it were, that all the bearings of the question could be ascertained with much more accuracy by both Houses, than by coming at once to the consideration of legislative enactments. As to the propositions, he had no doubt his noble friend would communicate the nature of them to the House, previous to bringing on the discussion.The Earl of Liverpool
226 agreed that it was right to fix the earliest day possible for going into the discussion. The public were so deeply interested in the question, that he thought it was due to them that no time should be lost in giving to it all the consideration it could receive in that House, and at the same time imparting to the public all that information respect-
226The Marquis of Lansdowne
227 reminded their lordships, that the committee, whose report was now before them, had sat nearly three months before they had come to the opinion submitted to the House. Their lordships saw the size of the report which lay on the table; from its bulk they might conjecture what a mass of evidence they had to wade through; and yet the noble earl proposed to allow only ten days for the consideration of that evidence. He spoke in the hearing of the members of the committee, and he was certain that no noble lord who had sat on it, and recollected what had been the state of his mind during that inquiry, would say that by Thursday se'nnight his just opinion could be formed on the evidence. He must indeed declare, that to allow only the short period of ten days from the printing to the consideration of the report would be an absurdity. There was a great variety of other business before the House, and if any noble lord thought, notwithstanding the various subjects in which his attention might in the mean time be called, that he could digest all the evidence attached to this report in the course of ten days, that noble lord must have a very different idea of the nature of the inquiry from that which he had by experience found it to be. The noble earl said, that the public mind would be best settled by the discussion of the subject in that House. This was true; but that noble earl ought to recollect, that if the public looked up to the decision of that House on the present or any other subject, it was because they believed that their lordships took sufficient time to form an accurate opinion. He would take upon himself to assert that, no individual, though accustomed to the consideration of subjects of this nature, no merchant in the city of London, would say, that it was possible so to digest the evidence of this report in ten days, as to give an opinion upon it. How, then, could it be expected that their lordships, many of whom were altogether unacquainted with the subject, should make up their minds so quickly—should come
227The Earl of Lauderdale
 concurred in the opinion that it might be advisable for his noble friend to open the subject to their lordships some days previous to this day fortnight, but that day was the latest he could contemplate for the general discussion of the resolutions.The Earl of Liverpool
 regarded the previous opening of the subject by the noble earl as of little value, if their lordships were to be limited to ten days for the consideration, of the report. The noble earl was master of his own day for his motion; but he now gave notice, that if a farther time was not allowed, he should as soon as the resolutions were proposed move to adjourn the debate to a future day.Earl Grey
 had no expectation of being able to form a proper opinion on the report by Thursday se'nnight, and must once more appeal to the candour of the noble earl opposite for farther time. He was willing to allow the full truth of all that the noble earl had said as to the advantage of discussion with respect to its effect on the public mind; but then, for that discussion to be useful, it must be the discussion of informed persons, not of men who were denied time for deliberation and reflexion. The members of the committee, who had been three months pursuing the investigation, might be expected to come prepared to give an opinion; but was it reasonable to ask this of those who were as yet unacquainted with the subject? Where was the necessity for so much haste?Earl Grey
225 urged the propriety of giving more time for the consideration of the report, before bringing forward any propositions on the subject, if it were merely to preserve the appearance of decency; it being impossible that a report, with the appendices, which had taken, the committee three months to deliberate upon and arrange, could be fully considered by their lordships within the short period allowed by the noble earl, previous to moving his proposition: add to this, the vast importance of the question, extending as it did, into so many ramifications of detail, and affecting so materially the public interest. The House, besides, might pledge itself with respect to general principles, whilst the House of Commons, in which any legislative measure upon the subject would originate, might come to a different conclusion, and thus the two
225Earl Grey
228 intimated, that he should be perfectly satisfied if it was only meant to open the discussion on this day fortnight,
228Earl Grey
 expressed his readiness to communicate the nature of his propositions to the House previous to the discussion, but saw no reason for postponing that discussion beyond the day mentioned.The Earl of Harrowby
 presented the following Report:The Earl of Harrowby
 understood that it was not meant that the general discussion of the subject should take place on the day chosen by his noble friend, but merely that an opportunity should then be afforded for comparing what was proposed to be done with the evidence, and of considering how far the evidence supported what was stated in the report. In that case, it would probably be found most convenient merely to move the intended resolutions, and appoint a future day for their consideration.Lord Redesdale
293292291290289288, in pursuance of the notice he had given at an early period of the session, and since postponed, now felt it his duty to call their lordships' attention to the transactions which had taken place on the occupation of the Floridas by the American forces; and with a view to that object, he intended to move for copies of
293292291290289288The Marquis of Lansdowne
300299 replied. He was happy to think that the public opinion in America as highly disapproved of the conduct of general Jackson as it did in this country. When he stated his sentiments with respect to that conduct, he had studiously abstained from expressing any opinion regarding reparation. He had not said that the conduct of the individual in question would justify a war. All that he wished was, to obtain any papers containing a disavowal on the part of the American government of the act of their military agent, and an official declaration that no instructions were given him to warrant his proceedings; so that they might never be drawn into a precedent on any future occasion. He could not conceive how the government of the United States for which he entertained the greatest respect, could hesitate to declare, that transactions so objectionable had never met with its concurrence. With the idea, therefore, that such a declaration might easily be obtained, and that such a consequence would result from it, he had submitted his present motion.
300299The Marquis of Lansdowne
302§301 said, that he would not have troubled the House, had he not been so pointedly alluded to by the noble marquis, and had not what he had said on the first day of the session been somewhat mistaken. His noble friend had explained that mistake. He had not said that he would lay papers on the table to explain the transaction; but that he would be ready at a subsequent period of the session to show the principle on which this government had acted. There were two aspects of this question, which were often confounded, and from which great mistakes had arisen—he meant its morality, or rather immorality; and the political ground that it had for demanding reparation. Looking at general Jackson's conduct in the former view, he did not hesitate to say, that it exhibited acts of as violent and as outrageous a nature as could be found in history—acts for which he was responsible to God and his country, and yet, considering the distinction he had made, they might not be of a kind, to justify a demand of reparation from this country. He was free to say, that the British government had not overlooked the acts in question; that they had had various, communications on the subject; and that it was after the most mature deliberation that they had adopted the course which they now followed. When a question arose regarding the act of a foreign state, it was their duty to weigh well the nature of the
302§301The Earl of Liverpool
298297296295294 said, he would not follow the noble marquis through all the particulars into which he had entered regarding the cession of Florida to the United States. He was certainly the less called upon to reply to the noble marquis on that point, as the papers for which he had thought fit to move contained no allusion whatever to it. He could not, however, refrain from noticing the notion of the noble marquis, that to prevent the cession of the Floridas was a duty to be expected from his majesty's ministers. He would not go the length of saying, that cases might not occur in which it would be proper for one government to oppose cessions by another: but how dangerous would it be to establish it as a principle,
298297296295294Earl Bathurst
388387 rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to call their lordships' attention to the petitions on the table, praying for relief to the Roman Catholics. In furtherance of the object he had in view, he felt it to be his duty to submit to their lordships a resolution, to the effect that this House do resolve itself into a committee to consider the state of the laws which inflict civil disabilities on account of religious opinions, particularly in so far as those laws deprive his majesty's Roman Catholic subjects of the exercise of their civil rights; and in how far it may be expedient to alter or modify the same. Such was the nature of the motion with which he intended to conclude, and he believed no question of greater importance in all its relations could be brought under the consideration of parliament. The importance of the subject could not fail to be felt by their lordships, when they recollected the great proportion of his majesty's subjects affected by the severe and, as he must contend, illiberal exclusions which it was his object to remove. The law as it now stood, disqualified and rendered incapable of sitting in parliament and holding various civil and military situations, no less than four-fifths of the population of the country from which most of the petitions now on the table relative to this question
388387The Earl of Donoughmore
391390 said, he could not give his concurrence to the prayer of the petitions on which the noble earl had founded his motion. He was surprised at the strange notions which prevailed on this subject; and that it should be supposed by any persons, that a professor of the doctrines of the church of England must necessarily be hostile to the granting the claims of the Catholics, merely on the ground of their religious opinions. Nothing could be more unfounded than such an idea. Their lordships would allow him to say, that whoever supposed that members of the church of England could be enemies of the Roman Catholics on such grounds, were ignorant of the faith professed by that church. It did not follow, however, that the Roman Catholics should be admitted to all the privileges they claimed. Whatever unnecessary severity existed in the laws it was proper to remove, and such had been the course pursued by the legislature. Much had, within the last two years, been done in this respect. An act had passed which admitted Roman Catholics to the military and naval service, but he could not think it adviseable that they should be appointed to the highest commands, or permitted to fill the highest offices in the state. The laws against them had hitherto been administered tenderly and sparingly. Those which still existed would doubtless continue to be so administered, unless some event should occur to render their strict enforcement necessary; and on that ground it would be imprudent to repeal them. It was said, that the motives which induced the Roman Catholics to refuse taking the oaths ought to be treated with candour. It was doubtless their lordships' duty so to do; but it was also their duty to guard against the influence of a captivating expression, and to take care, in following the advice to exercise candour to one party, that they did not injure another. Could he persuade himself that no injury would accrue to the constitution from their admission to all the privileges of the constitution, most readily would he accede to their claims. To extend those privileges to all descriptions of persons was doubtless what would be the first feeling of their lordships on the proposition of such a question; but feeling was not the only rule by which they were to be guided in legislating. In former discussions on this question much stress had been laid on authorities, and
391390The Bishop of Worcester
394393392 said, he felt an attachment to the church and the constitution as sincere and cordial as that of his reverend friend could be, though he was so unfortunate as to differ very widely with him on the means by which security was to be given to these establishments. He would never suppose that the security of the church was to be promoted by exciting false and frivolous alarms. He was anxious to give his testimony against all attempts to raise a clamour among the ministers of the church, on the pretence that the establishment would be in danger, were the claims of one-fourth of the population of the British empire to the enjoyment of civil rights granted by parliament. That a Christian church should be endangered by an act of justice was a proposition contrary to the great maxim of the religion of Christ, namely, "Whatsoever you would that others do to you, even so do ye unto them." Amidst all the clamour which had been raised, he had heard no solid objection against the measure demanded by the Roman Catholics. The British constitution was best supported by carrying into full practice the liberality of its principles. The broader the foundation, the more secure would be the superstructure. Now, when every argument hitherto urged against the Catholic claims had been triumphantly
394393392The Bishop of Norwich
396395 said:—My lords; if the present question were a question of religious liberty, it should have my cordial support. But the petitioners who are the objects of the present motion, enjoy already the same freedom of religious worship, the same freedom in the propagation of religious opinions, which is enjoyed by the members of the establishment themselves. We cannot have a more convincing proof than in the lectures which are given and published by the college of Maynooth.—It is the removal of civil disabilities, it is an extension of civil power, which is now in contemplation, as appears from the general tenor of the petitions which have been laid on your lordships' table. But if the religion of the petitioners is deemed an obstacle to their acquisition of this civil power, are they not made to suffer on account of their religion? And if men are made to suffer merely on account of their religion, is it not an act of intolerance unworthy of the present age?—My lords, I should be very sorry to plead the cause of intolerance, which I think highly reprehensible, from whatever quarter it proceeds. But there is really no intolerance in opposing the claims which are now advanced. It is not merely on account of any difference in abstract opinions between the petitioners and ourselves, that we think their religion a ground of exclusion; but because opinions, abstract in themselves, are coupled with other opinions, which are not so; with opinions which affect men's political conduct. Let it be granted that men may believe in the doctrine of transubstantiation, and yet bear true allegiance to his majesty king George, as well as they who reject such doctrine as superstitious. But, if they, who believe in the doctrine of transubstantiation believe also that a foreign potentate hath, or ought to have, authority, in this realm, then, I say, my lords, it is impossible that such men should bear the same allegiance to his majesty king George as they whose whole allegiance, whose al-
396395The Bishop of Peterborough
398397 said, that he did not rise in the vain expectation of being able to add any thing to the irresistible arguments which had so often and so ably been made use of in support of this question: but in consequence of the anxious wish of his mind to embrace the first opportunity which had ever presented itself to him, to declare publicly in parliament his entire and cordial acquiescence in the principles and object of the motion of the noble earl. He was one of those who were of opinion that this question was not of more importance to those who, from their religious tenets, were more particularly and personally implicated in it, than to the kingdom at large: since in it was involved the one, whether the whole military and civil strength of the country
398397The Earl of Rosebery
406spirits of wickedness in high places,non meus hic sermo405404403402401400399 said:—My lords; as I mean to vote against the question now under the consideration of the House, having indeed always voted against questions of a similar nature, I should not have troubled your lordships with a single word on the present occasion, if I did not think there was a material change of circumstances since I last addressed the House: such a change as to induce me to conceive, that it may be proper to grant farther concessions to the Catholics, though, for the reasons which I shall concisely give, I. do not think these conces-
406spirits of wickedness in high places,non meus hic sermo405404403402401400399Lord De Dunstanville
414413412411410in temporalibus ac spiritualibus.409408407 thought that in the present question, the real point at issue was, not what would satisfy the Catholic alone, but what would or ought to satisfy the Protestant.—The noble earl who made this motion had not come forward with any specific proposition. If the noble earl would tell them what plan he intended to propose in the committee, and what defences he intended to erect for the security of the constitution, in the place of those which he was endeavouring to throw down, he for one should have no objection to grant the noble lord the committee which he required. Surely the noble earl ought, in the first instance, to say what course he meant to take in the committee. Perhaps in making this particular call for the measures which the noble earl contemplated, he exposed himself to the imputation of the cavilling precision of a lawyer. But, speaking with the prejudice of an English lawyer, loving the constitution upon principles of law, and yet at the same time being as warm a friend to toleration as any man in the House, he would ask, what security by oath could the Catholics give, which could reconcile the king's supremacy in things temporal, with the pope's supremacy in things ecclesiastical? He thought that they could give none; and, entertaining such sentiments, he felt it his duty to call upon their lordships to consider, what plan there was that parliament could adopt consistently with the safety of the constitution, out of all the plans which had been proposed to their notice since the commencement of these discussions. To him it appeared that none of them were practicable; because, if we were to believe the recorded history of the country, from the years 1660 to 1688, it would
414413412411410in temporalibus ac spiritualibus.409408407The Lord Chancellor
438437436435434 observed, it was evident that the friends of the Catholics now claimed for them free admission into all offices of state and trust, in the same degree that the Protestants enjoyed those privileges. If there were any subjects of minor importance in the contemplation of any of their lordships, on which concession was to be granted, any separate and specific remedies for particular grievances, it was open for those noble lords to bring them before the House; and it might become the House to entertain the discussion. But he was persuaded that their lordships were not to be deluded. The main objects of the Catholics were to be allowed to sit in parliament, in the privy council, and to be eligible to the great offices of the state. If there existed any doubt as to that point, it was only necessary to review what passed in 1813 on this question. The moment that the motion of a noble baron, who then sat in the other House of Parliament, was carried, for introducing into the bill then before that House a clause, excluding Catholics from parliament and the privy council, the bill was altogether withdrawn, even by its supporters, from the fuller consideration of the legislature. Was he not therefore justified in maintaining that the object of the Catholics was the extensive one which he had described? He agreed with his noble and learned friend that the principle of the constitution as established in 1668, was essentially Protestant. He would not follow the noble earl in discussing the specific reasons for each separate act of legislature, but he contended that the governing principle at the Revolution was to secure and strengthen the connexions between the establishments of church and state. In determining on that principle, their lordships' ancestors had abided by the striking lessons of experience in their own history. They had twice seen the constitution subverted, by severing the interests of the state from the church. The country had at that time the experience of two great convulsions; one in which the Puritans had overturned at once the monarchy and the church; the other at a subsequent period, where the monarch had almost subverted the church, and completely subverted his
438437436435434The Earl of Liverpool
440439 said, that if the maintenance of the disabilities complained of by the Catholics, were necessary to the maintenance of the British constitution and of the Protestant establishment, which formed such an essential part of that constitution, he would be among the first to oppose their removal. But his impression upon this subject was quite different from that of the noble earl who spoke last. That noble earl's impression, appeared to be grounded upon what the character of the Catholics was in other times. But this he submitted was a most erroneous rule of judgment, not only with regard to the Catholics, but to various other sects. For who could in candour appreciate different sects of Dissenters at present, from what had been the conduct of those sects in former times? Who could, for instance, suppose the Anabaptists the same description of persons in the present day as they were, when through their extravagance they created such disturbances in Germany? Or who would estimate the present bishops of the established church, from the conduct of those Protestant prelates who in 1641 agreed to such odious canons, and especially to that which proclaimed the divine right of kings? Suck a rule of
440439The Marquis of Lansdowne
446445444443442regium exequatur.441 said, that he should not presume, after the subject had been so fully debated, to enter at large into this, extensive question, but to call their lordships attention to the state in which it now came before them and to make some observations on what had passed in the debate. Having, whilst he had the honour of serving his majesty in Ireland, recommended the situation of his majesty's Catholic subjects to the favourable consideration of the parliament—having through the able and temperate conduct of a noble friend whose loss we all lament twice been enabled to give his majesty's assent to liberal concession to that body—he trusted it was unnecessary for him to disclaim any notions of bigotry or intolerance, or to express his earnest wishes to conciliate the affections of that class of his majesty's subjects, as far as was consistent with the state and temper of the times, the peace and tranquillity of the country, and the maintenance of the establishments of the realm. The proposition made by the noble earl was under certain words, to go into a general committee for the purpose of forming an arrangement that would conciliate all classes of the king's subjects, and unite them in support of the British constitution—an object so desirable that there was no one in the House but must anxiously concur in it; but it was because he was persuaded that the noble lord's proposition if acceded to, would instead of union and concord, produce dissatisfaction, discontent, and disorder, that be should give it his decided opposition. For a due consideration of the subject, let us review the state in which we own are. Some few years ago, the friends of the Roman Catholic claims thought it right, that, in return for the removal of all disabilities from the Roman Catholics, certain concessions should be made on their side, such as some
446445444443442regium exequatur.441The Earl of Westmorland
 protested against the principle that the House should decide on the question of Catholic emancipation, before they determined whether they should go into a committee. He thought the objection to a committee came with a singularly ill grace from his majesty's ministers, who had, during the present session, delegated every branch of the executive power to committees of parliament. The objection to admitting Roman Catholics into places of civil trust and power, was equally untenable after the army and navy had been opened to their ambition. The military profession had been made free to the Roman Catholics, and yet apprehensions of their fidelity were affected to be felt when the question arose respecting their admissibility to civil offices. As to the king's supremacy, he did not understand in what sense the recognition of it was demanded from the Catholics. They were willing to acknowledge the Protestant church as the established religion of the empire, and the king as the head of the Protestant church. What more could be required? Was the king to be not only the head of the established church, but of all sectaries? The argument was absurd.The Earl of Carnarvon
 thought that his noble and gallant friend had treated the subject as if it were of an ecclesiastical rather than of a civil nature. It would certainly be highly desirable to satisfy the minds of the Protestants with securities, while the Roman Catholics were admitted to a full participation in the advantages of the constitution; but the means of effecting that could be ascertained only by going into a committee. He could not see how the safety of a single Protestant could be endangered by extending the civil rights of the Catholics; he, therefore, at that late hour of the night, would not detain their lordships any longer, than by stating, that, with or without securities, he was willing to grant to the Catholics what sooner or later they must inevitably obtain.The Earl of Darnley
433432431430429428427426425424423422421420419418417416415, adverting to the remarks made by the noble and learned lord who had just spoken, on the mean opinion which he supposed some noble lords entertained of lawyers as politicians, while on the other hand they fancied themselves great lawyers, begged leave to disclaim having, for one, ever held such unqualified and unjust sentiments towards a learned and liberal and enlightened profession. He certainly had known lawyers, and he had seen some appearance of one of that description that night, who had had their views of the constitution so narrowed by their technical habits, that they came very disadvantageously to such a discussion as the one in which their lordships were then engaged. But this was far from being generally the case. On the contrary, it was impossible for him, in speaking on this topic, not to call to mind the character of a distinguished member of that profession, whose loss had been recently experienced by the country; a man of the best and most amiable qualities, whose knowledge of the constitution and of the law could be exceeded only by his enthusiastic love of liberty, and Ins persevering and unbounded benevolence; a man who, with some others of his profession, invariably applied his knowledge in the support of civil and religious liberty. He disclaimed, therefore, treating the profession of the law with derision. He knew that he was not competent to contend questions of law with those who had devoted their whole lives to the study of them: and least of all, was he competent to contend on such subjects with the noble and learned lord on the woolsack, whose high qualifications, and whose authority as a lawyer, he was most ready to acknowledge. But, at the same time, it was his duty, in his humble sphere, in cases in which points of law mingled with other considerations, to discuss them with such lights as he possessed, although subject to the criticism of the noble and learned lord. It was, therefore, that, with all due deference to the noble and learned
433432431430429428427426425424423422421420419418417416415Earl Grey
448447 said, he considered that the whole of this question turned on the expediency of removing the disabilities from the Irish Roman Catholics, and upon what concessions could be safely made to them. As a means of inquiry, a committee was proposed. The whole question turned upon the degree of security which could be given to the Protestant religion as by law established in Ireland. To consider this, it was
448447The Duke of Wellington
598 said, he had a petition to present, signed by between 4 and 500 of the most respectable merchants in the city of London, against the conclusions to which the Bank committees had come, as exem-
598The Earl of Lauderdale
, previous to proceeding to the order of the day, stated, that he understood there had been that morning a communication made to his majesty's ministers from the court of directors of the bank of England; and if so, he thought it of importance, with a view to the discussion their lordships were about to commence, that some information should be given respecting it. He wished, therefore to know whether a communication had been so made from the court of directors of the Bank of England to his majesty's ministers; and if so, whether there was any objection to lay such communication before the House?The Earl of Lauderdale
 stated, that he had that morning received a visit from the governor and deputy governor of the Bank, who handed to him a paper from the court of directors, stating it to contain the opinion of that body with respect to the plan proposed by the Bank committees of the two Houses of parliament. He asked of the two gentlemen from whom he received the paper, whether it was handed to him with the view or intention that it should be laid before the two Houses of parliament? They replied that the communication was not made with the view or intention of its being laid before parliament, but for the purpose of putting his majesty's ministers in possession of the opinion of the court of directors with respect to the plan proposed by the Bank committees. He then stated to them, that if any question was asked of him in parliament, with reference to such a communication, he of course, could not deny that he had received it, nor could he refuse, if called for, to produce it, for the information of parliament. The governor and deputy governor replied, that if it was wished to lay the paper before parliament, the court of directors had no objection. His lordship then produced the paper alluded to, and stated, that he was ready to lay it upon the table, If moved for.The Earl at Liverpool
 then moved for a copy of the said paper which was immediately presented by the earl of Liverpool, and is as follows:The Earl of Lauderdale
610 said, he had, when the report was laid on the table, expressed his opinion, that it was of great and essential importance that the subject should undergo a thorough discussion on as early a day as possible. A petition had been laid on the table against the plan, and appre-
610The Earl of Liverpool
 pressed on the noble earl the advantage of postponing the discussion until Tuesday, as the question would then receive a more careful and satisfactory examination; and as the subject would not be discussed in another place until Monday, where the practical measures must originate, it was evident that no time would be lost.The Earl of Roslyn
628lsls627626lllllllllllll625llllllll624623622621dslsl620619sl618pro tanto617616dsl615sldslsl614613exceptio probat regulam612611 rose, and commenced by observing, that the proposition of the noble lord ought, if there was any new matter or new suggestion for their consideration, to operate as an irresistible call upon their lordships to put off the question. But when every one was aware that the subject matter of the resolutions had been sifted from time to time as minutely and laboriously as any matter that ever was discussed, when the evidence on the table was known to contain every thing that could be said on both sides of the question, when the noble lord had embodied in his counter-resolutions opinions, which he was known to hold, and which he had frequently explained and defended, when they were even made the subject of correspondence in the public prints, he conceived that to delay the discussion of so important a question, would be attended with the greatest inconvenience, without affording in return any adequate advantage. He could state, from his own knowledge, that there were many among those, who doubted the propriety of the plan, most anxious that the discussion should be brought on as soon as possible. Omitting, therefore, those points
628lsls627626lllllllllllll625llllllll624623622621dslsl620619sl618pro tanto617616dsl615sldslsl614613exceptio probat regulam612611The Earl of Liverpool
640lss639l638dslsl637636llllsldsll635634llldsllsll633ll632lldsl631dsldslsldss630lslslsl629 observed, that if the noble earl who last addressed their lordships felt how difficult a task he had undertaken in explaining his view of the subject, how much more must he feel, who had to argue it in a more extensive manner, and to explain his impressions, founded as they were on principles much more difficult of elucidation. He could assure their lordships of one thing—that if he had failed to form a correct judgment on the subject, it was to be ascribed entirely to the incapacity of the man, for nothing that assiduity could accomplish had been neglected by him in his inquiries. Before he should enter upon the arguments which immediately affected the question, he would say something of the causes of our present difficulties, which the noble earl had treated of very inadequately. When the noble earl said that a fixed standard of value was necessary for this great mercantile country, he only repeated what he (the earl of Lauderdale) and the noble lords around him had been
640lss639l638dslsl637636llllsldsll635634llldsllsll633ll632lldsl631dsldslsldss630lslslsl629The Earl of Lauderdale
643agioagio;642641 said, that after the very able exposition which they had heard from the noble earl, it was hardly necessary to say any thing in favour of the original resolutions, of which he heartily approved. When he heard, from a certain class of persons, who had petitioned their lordships, those resolutions objected to, as tending to a forced and precipitate reduction of the circulating medium, he could not help considering their objections as proceeding from a wish to prolong, to the utmost time in their power, the duration of the restriction; for, if the country was ever to return to payments in specie, he would defy any man to devise a plan more easy, more moderate, or less tending to produce distress, than that contained in the resolutions before the House. The restriction had certainly enabled the Bank to accommodate some classes of the mercantile world; and by producing, through the means of the increase of the quantity of the currency, a rise of prices, had changed the distribution of wealth and the employment of capital. By putting an end to the restriction, an alteration in the employment of capital, and the distribution of wealth must be produced in an opposite direction to that which the depreciation of the currency had produced. That this should take place as gradually as possible, was certainly desirable, though some distress must at all events be produced. When we talked of putting an end to facilities which the restriction afforded, it was to be remembered that those were facilities afforded to some classes at the expense of others. They
643agioagio;642641Lord King
 was surprised that his noble friend should express an opinion, that the parties whose petition he (the earl of Lauderdale) had presented, were desirous of perpetuating the paper currency. If his noble friend had read the words of the petition, he would have seen that they merely stated, that the measure in the contemplation of the secret committee would tend to a forced resumption of cash payments, which would injure alike the manufacture, agriculture, and commerce of the country. He himself bad had a conversation with the committee which drew the petition up, and from that conversation he was inclined to think, that they had come honestly forward, without any idea of perpetuating the paper currency. The petition was signed by some of the most respectable citizens of London, and would have been much more numerously signed, had not several individuals refused their signatures from a motive of self interest and fear, not at all unnatural to men in their situation. They were afraid that they should be considered dependent on the Bank, and such an idea would be very detrimental to their credit as merchants. He did not wish to state any thing to their lordships as proof which had not been proved; but he must say, in contradiction to the assertion of his noble friend, who had declared that the Bank directors had contracted their issues to prevent the melting down of the silver coinage, that he had asked Mr. Baring a question upon that point, who had answered, that as he was not a director, he could not tell, but he thought that it might be so. In consequence of this reply, he had asked some of the directors, whether they had ever limited their issues for the purpose which he had just specified, and their reply upon their oaths was, that they never had.The Earl of Lauderdale
7. "That it appears, therefore, to this House, that an alteration of our mint regulations, such as will approximate the mint values of our silver and gold coin to the market values of these metals, is a necessary preliminary step to the restoration of our currency to a satisfactory state."6. "That although since the new mint regulations have been carried into effect, our gold coin has been banished from circulation, and the exchanges have been nominally unfavourable, when calculated in that metal, in which payments no longer could be obtained; yet the real exchange has been uniformly favourable to us, when calculated in silver coin, the only metallic coin in circulation; that we cannot, therefore, doubt of the truth of what the common rules of arithmetic may inform us, that if the mint regulations had assimilated the mint prices of the two metals to their market prices, the exchange calculated even in gold coin would have been uniformly in our favour, and that we must therefore be of opinion, that the Bank may resume payments in cash, with safety to that establishment, whenever the mint values of those metals are made to correspond with their market values, provided it has recovered from the injury its funds have sustained, by its having reposed too great confidence in the wisdom and prudence of the legislature, who sanctioned the existing mint regulations.6085. "That, judging from the quantity of bullion which the evidence shows us the Bank possessed for some months before and after the mint regulations were acted upon, and from the state of the exchanges, which before the month of March, 1817,
6084. "That the exchanges, as well as the price of gold and silver bullion, since the introduction of our silver coinage, under the sanction of the act of the 56th of the king, chap. 68, have uniformly exhibited that state of things which has always been experienced, and must always take place, when the value of silver coin is diminished, whether that diminution is effected by lowering its intrinsic or raising its denominative value.3. "That, under these circumstances it does not appear to this House, that there is any satisfactory evidence of an over issue of paper, which is always attended with a rise of the price of both gold and silver bullion above the mint price, and a state of exchange that renders it impossible to import either gold or silver bullion with a profit.2. "That since the month of March, 1817, when our silver coin was, by his majesty's proclamation, of date the 1st of that month, established in circulation, the exchanges with foreign countries have been such as to render it impossible to import gold bullion with a profit, and to have made it uniformly advantageous to export that metal, whilst the importation of silver bullion has constantly been attended with a profit; and that the evidence, as reported by the committee, proves beyond a doubt, that gold since that period has been exported to a great amount, whilst silver bullion has been imported from almost every country with which we have dealings.1. "That it appears to this House, that during the greater part of the year 1616, and the beginning of the year 1817, the exchanges with foreign countries were generally such as made it advantageous to import both gold and silver bullion into this country; and that the evidence reported by the Committee proves, that at that time large importations of these metals actually took place.
7. "That it appears, therefore, to this House, that an alteration of our mint regulations, such as will approximate the mint values of our silver and gold coin to the market values of these metals, is a necessary preliminary step to the restoration of our currency to a satisfactory state."6. "That although since the new mint regulations have been carried into effect, our gold coin has been banished from circulation, and the exchanges have been nominally unfavourable, when calculated in that metal, in which payments no longer could be obtained; yet the real exchange has been uniformly favourable to us, when calculated in silver coin, the only metallic coin in circulation; that we cannot, therefore, doubt of the truth of what the common rules of arithmetic may inform us, that if the mint regulations had assimilated the mint prices of the two metals to their market prices, the exchange calculated even in gold coin would have been uniformly in our favour, and that we must therefore be of opinion, that the Bank may resume payments in cash, with safety to that establishment, whenever the mint values of those metals are made to correspond with their market values, provided it has recovered from the injury its funds have sustained, by its having reposed too great confidence in the wisdom and prudence of the legislature, who sanctioned the existing mint regulations.6085. "That, judging from the quantity of bullion which the evidence shows us the Bank possessed for some months before and after the mint regulations were acted upon, and from the state of the exchanges, which before the month of March, 1817,
6084. "That the exchanges, as well as the price of gold and silver bullion, since the introduction of our silver coinage, under the sanction of the act of the 56th of the king, chap. 68, have uniformly exhibited that state of things which has always been experienced, and must always take place, when the value of silver coin is diminished, whether that diminution is effected by lowering its intrinsic or raising its denominative value.3. "That, under these circumstances it does not appear to this House, that there is any satisfactory evidence of an over issue of paper, which is always attended with a rise of the price of both gold and silver bullion above the mint price, and a state of exchange that renders it impossible to import either gold or silver bullion with a profit.2. "That since the month of March, 1817, when our silver coin was, by his majesty's proclamation, of date the 1st of that month, established in circulation, the exchanges with foreign countries have been such as to render it impossible to import gold bullion with a profit, and to have made it uniformly advantageous to export that metal, whilst the importation of silver bullion has constantly been attended with a profit; and that the evidence, as reported by the committee, proves beyond a doubt, that gold since that period has been exported to a great amount, whilst silver bullion has been imported from almost every country with which we have dealings.1. "That it appears to this House, that during the greater part of the year 1616, and the beginning of the year 1817, the exchanges with foreign countries were generally such as made it advantageous to import both gold and silver bullion into this country; and that the evidence reported by the Committee proves, that at that time large importations of these metals actually took place.607 rose to move, as an amendment, a set of Resolutions, founded on a view of the subject very different from that taken by the noble earl and the majority of the committee. He therefore urged the propriety of time being afforded for the consideration of his propositions, in the same manner as had been observed with regard to those of the noble lord. He wished them to be print ed, and a future day to be fixed for going into the debate, by which means their lordships would have time to consider the subject more maturely. He thought it impossible for the House, in its present state of imperfect information, to come to
7. "That it appears, therefore, to this House, that an alteration of our mint regulations, such as will approximate the mint values of our silver and gold coin to the market values of these metals, is a necessary preliminary step to the restoration of our currency to a satisfactory state."6. "That although since the new mint regulations have been carried into effect, our gold coin has been banished from circulation, and the exchanges have been nominally unfavourable, when calculated in that metal, in which payments no longer could be obtained; yet the real exchange has been uniformly favourable to us, when calculated in silver coin, the only metallic coin in circulation; that we cannot, therefore, doubt of the truth of what the common rules of arithmetic may inform us, that if the mint regulations had assimilated the mint prices of the two metals to their market prices, the exchange calculated even in gold coin would have been uniformly in our favour, and that we must therefore be of opinion, that the Bank may resume payments in cash, with safety to that establishment, whenever the mint values of those metals are made to correspond with their market values, provided it has recovered from the injury its funds have sustained, by its having reposed too great confidence in the wisdom and prudence of the legislature, who sanctioned the existing mint regulations.6085. "That, judging from the quantity of bullion which the evidence shows us the Bank possessed for some months before and after the mint regulations were acted upon, and from the state of the exchanges, which before the month of March, 1817,
6084. "That the exchanges, as well as the price of gold and silver bullion, since the introduction of our silver coinage, under the sanction of the act of the 56th of the king, chap. 68, have uniformly exhibited that state of things which has always been experienced, and must always take place, when the value of silver coin is diminished, whether that diminution is effected by lowering its intrinsic or raising its denominative value.3. "That, under these circumstances it does not appear to this House, that there is any satisfactory evidence of an over issue of paper, which is always attended with a rise of the price of both gold and silver bullion above the mint price, and a state of exchange that renders it impossible to import either gold or silver bullion with a profit.2. "That since the month of March, 1817, when our silver coin was, by his majesty's proclamation, of date the 1st of that month, established in circulation, the exchanges with foreign countries have been such as to render it impossible to import gold bullion with a profit, and to have made it uniformly advantageous to export that metal, whilst the importation of silver bullion has constantly been attended with a profit; and that the evidence, as reported by the committee, proves beyond a doubt, that gold since that period has been exported to a great amount, whilst silver bullion has been imported from almost every country with which we have dealings.1. "That it appears to this House, that during the greater part of the year 1616, and the beginning of the year 1817, the exchanges with foreign countries were generally such as made it advantageous to import both gold and silver bullion into this country; and that the evidence reported by the Committee proves, that at that time large importations of these metals actually took place.
7. "That it appears, therefore, to this House, that an alteration of our mint regulations, such as will approximate the mint values of our silver and gold coin to the market values of these metals, is a necessary preliminary step to the restoration of our currency to a satisfactory state."6. "That although since the new mint regulations have been carried into effect, our gold coin has been banished from circulation, and the exchanges have been nominally unfavourable, when calculated in that metal, in which payments no longer could be obtained; yet the real exchange has been uniformly favourable to us, when calculated in silver coin, the only metallic coin in circulation; that we cannot, therefore, doubt of the truth of what the common rules of arithmetic may inform us, that if the mint regulations had assimilated the mint prices of the two metals to their market prices, the exchange calculated even in gold coin would have been uniformly in our favour, and that we must therefore be of opinion, that the Bank may resume payments in cash, with safety to that establishment, whenever the mint values of those metals are made to correspond with their market values, provided it has recovered from the injury its funds have sustained, by its having reposed too great confidence in the wisdom and prudence of the legislature, who sanctioned the existing mint regulations.6085. "That, judging from the quantity of bullion which the evidence shows us the Bank possessed for some months before and after the mint regulations were acted upon, and from the state of the exchanges, which before the month of March, 1817,
6084. "That the exchanges, as well as the price of gold and silver bullion, since the introduction of our silver coinage, under the sanction of the act of the 56th of the king, chap. 68, have uniformly exhibited that state of things which has always been experienced, and must always take place, when the value of silver coin is diminished, whether that diminution is effected by lowering its intrinsic or raising its denominative value.3. "That, under these circumstances it does not appear to this House, that there is any satisfactory evidence of an over issue of paper, which is always attended with a rise of the price of both gold and silver bullion above the mint price, and a state of exchange that renders it impossible to import either gold or silver bullion with a profit.2. "That since the month of March, 1817, when our silver coin was, by his majesty's proclamation, of date the 1st of that month, established in circulation, the exchanges with foreign countries have been such as to render it impossible to import gold bullion with a profit, and to have made it uniformly advantageous to export that metal, whilst the importation of silver bullion has constantly been attended with a profit; and that the evidence, as reported by the committee, proves beyond a doubt, that gold since that period has been exported to a great amount, whilst silver bullion has been imported from almost every country with which we have dealings.1. "That it appears to this House, that during the greater part of the year 1616, and the beginning of the year 1817, the exchanges with foreign countries were generally such as made it advantageous to import both gold and silver bullion into this country; and that the evidence reported by the Committee proves, that at that time large importations of these metals actually took place.607The Earl of Lauderdale
657inter magna coronœ regalia656s felt it to be of importance that this plan should be put forth with all the authority by which it could be given to the public, because he was convinced it would prove a safe and direct means of returning to cash payments. Before he proceeded, however, to state his reasons in support of the plan, he felt it necessary to advert to the objections of his noble friend near him; for, were the opinion of his noble friend well founded, all the expectations promised from the plan must be hollow. Unless the principles which his noble friend contended for, with respect to the coinage, were proved to be incorrect, the proposed plan must be nugatory. His noble friend's objection resolved itself into this question—whether it was better to have only one standard of money or two? The principle on which the coinage of the country at present stood, was that of one standard, which was gold. Silver might consequently go out or return, without in any degree affecting the exchanges. The mere circumstance of silver being a legal tender to the amount of 40657inter magna coronœ regalia656sThe Marquis of Lansdowne
609 rose, not to speak on the main question before the House, but merely on the mode in which it would be proper for their lordships now to proceed. One set of resolutions had been moved by the noble earl opposite, upon which counter resolutions had been moved by his noble friend near him. No time had been afforded to their lordships to consider these resolutions, and most of those who heard him were probably ignorant of the grounds and reasons on which they were founded. For himself he must say, that be required time for deliberation, for
609Earl Grey
6. "That it is expedient that all laws, which prohibit the melting or exportation of the gold or silver coin of the realm, and the exportation of gold or silver bullion made of such coin, should be repealed."5. "That after the period shall have arrived at which the Bank shall be required to give gold in exchange for its notes at the mint price, a farther period to be fixed by parliament should be allowed, and a certain notice given, before the Bank shall be required to pay its notes in cash.sl4. "That at some time between the two periods above mentioned, the Bank should be required to give in exchange for its notes, gold so assayed and stamped, valuing the same at a price between 4sl3. "That at the expiration of a farther period, to be also faxed by parliament, the Bank should be required to give in exchange for its notes, gold so assayed and stamped (if demanded, to an amount not less than a certain number of ounces to be limited), valuing the same in such exchange at the mint price.sl2. "That previously to the Resumption of Cash Payments by the Bank, it is expedient that the Bank should be required, at a time to be fixed by parliament, to give in exchange for its notes gold duly assayed and stamped at his majesty's mint (if demanded, to an amount not less than a number of ounces to be limited), valuing the same in such exchange, at a price not exceeding 4sl6061. "That it is expedient farther to continue the Restriction upon Cash Payments by the Bank for a time to be limit-
606
6. "That it is expedient that all laws, which prohibit the melting or exportation of the gold or silver coin of the realm, and the exportation of gold or silver bullion made of such coin, should be repealed."5. "That after the period shall have arrived at which the Bank shall be required to give gold in exchange for its notes at the mint price, a farther period to be fixed by parliament should be allowed, and a certain notice given, before the Bank shall be required to pay its notes in cash.sl4. "That at some time between the two periods above mentioned, the Bank should be required to give in exchange for its notes, gold so assayed and stamped, valuing the same at a price between 4sl3. "That at the expiration of a farther period, to be also faxed by parliament, the Bank should be required to give in exchange for its notes, gold so assayed and stamped (if demanded, to an amount not less than a certain number of ounces to be limited), valuing the same in such exchange at the mint price.sl2. "That previously to the Resumption of Cash Payments by the Bank, it is expedient that the Bank should be required, at a time to be fixed by parliament, to give in exchange for its notes gold duly assayed and stamped at his majesty's mint (if demanded, to an amount not less than a number of ounces to be limited), valuing the same in such exchange, at a price not exceeding 4sl6061. "That it is expedient farther to continue the Restriction upon Cash Payments by the Bank for a time to be limit-
606605 proceeded to regret his inability, arising from severe personal indisposition, to enter at any length into the consideration of the very important question which stood for discussion. Had it been on other occasions he
6. "That it is expedient that all laws, which prohibit the melting or exportation of the gold or silver coin of the realm, and the exportation of gold or silver bullion made of such coin, should be repealed."5. "That after the period shall have arrived at which the Bank shall be required to give gold in exchange for its notes at the mint price, a farther period to be fixed by parliament should be allowed, and a certain notice given, before the Bank shall be required to pay its notes in cash.sl4. "That at some time between the two periods above mentioned, the Bank should be required to give in exchange for its notes, gold so assayed and stamped, valuing the same at a price between 4sl3. "That at the expiration of a farther period, to be also faxed by parliament, the Bank should be required to give in exchange for its notes, gold so assayed and stamped (if demanded, to an amount not less than a certain number of ounces to be limited), valuing the same in such exchange at the mint price.sl2. "That previously to the Resumption of Cash Payments by the Bank, it is expedient that the Bank should be required, at a time to be fixed by parliament, to give in exchange for its notes gold duly assayed and stamped at his majesty's mint (if demanded, to an amount not less than a number of ounces to be limited), valuing the same in such exchange, at a price not exceeding 4sl6061. "That it is expedient farther to continue the Restriction upon Cash Payments by the Bank for a time to be limit-
606
6. "That it is expedient that all laws, which prohibit the melting or exportation of the gold or silver coin of the realm, and the exportation of gold or silver bullion made of such coin, should be repealed."5. "That after the period shall have arrived at which the Bank shall be required to give gold in exchange for its notes at the mint price, a farther period to be fixed by parliament should be allowed, and a certain notice given, before the Bank shall be required to pay its notes in cash.sl4. "That at some time between the two periods above mentioned, the Bank should be required to give in exchange for its notes, gold so assayed and stamped, valuing the same at a price between 4sl3. "That at the expiration of a farther period, to be also faxed by parliament, the Bank should be required to give in exchange for its notes, gold so assayed and stamped (if demanded, to an amount not less than a certain number of ounces to be limited), valuing the same in such exchange at the mint price.sl2. "That previously to the Resumption of Cash Payments by the Bank, it is expedient that the Bank should be required, at a time to be fixed by parliament, to give in exchange for its notes gold duly assayed and stamped at his majesty's mint (if demanded, to an amount not less than a number of ounces to be limited), valuing the same in such exchange, at a price not exceeding 4sl6061. "That it is expedient farther to continue the Restriction upon Cash Payments by the Bank for a time to be limit-
606605The Earl of Harrowby
 hoped, that a few observations from him on the present important question, would not be considered as intrusive. He expressed himself totally averse to the prolongation of a paper system, not convertible to a metallic currency, and was decidedly of opinion, that the arrangement pointed out by the committee would produce a salutary effect, if a sufficient quantity of coin was introduced into the country prior to the payment by the Bank. If a sufficient circulation was given to the country, this measure might lead to cash payments. Even although the money received for the taxes were sent to the Bank for the use of the persons applying for cash, the distress in the country would be great. The Bank, it seemed to him, had been at one time in a situation, which would have rendered the resumption of cash payments easy, but that opportunity bad not been embraced, for since that period 20 millions of the valuable metals had been sent out of the country. There had been some language made use of relative to the Bank directors which they did not deserve, for they had acted honourably,—and he entertained no jealousy of their conduct, nor had he seen in any part of the report, marks of a jealous disposition towards them, how much so ever the feelings of other individuals might be irritated against them. With respect to the silver currency, he had not been able to bring his mind to coincide with the arguments adduced by the noble earl on that subject. The noble earl had stated that the law had its defects, he was aware of these defects and had twenty years ago endeavoured in the other House of Parliament to introduce an act for remedying these grievances. With respect to any danger from an importation of counterfeit coin from other countries—he meant coin of the same metal, but lighter in weight—that might easily be obviated by assimilating the practice which prevailed in weights and measures to coin, and making it seizable on the discovery of its lightness. Altogether to prevent counterfeit coin from being sent from foreign countries into this was impossible, but the quantity would be much reduced by its being rendered liable to confiscation. All false coin must either be sent from foreign countries, or be issued from a Mint here, in either of which case, confiscation would tend much to prevent its circulation.Lord Redesdale
655654653652651650649648647646║ said, that the noble earl who had opened the debate, had explained the plan which he had proposed to their lordships in so luminous and argumentative a speech, that there was very little occasion for him to add a single word upon the subject. But having considered this restriction as one of the greatest calamities under which this suffering country had laboured; having frequently had occasion to lament and deplore the part which he had himself taken, on its original proposition, in prolonging it for the term of the then existing war; having avowed his error in so doing, as became an honest man, at the commencement of the last war; and having prophesied but too truly all the distress and misery which would befall the nation in consequence of it, he could not help expressing his joy and satisfaction, that the country was at last arrived at that period, in which it could look forward with certainty to the repeal of this injudicious and unfortunate measure. He could not remain silent when a measure was proposed to their lordships, which was almost positively certain of success, but must be allowed to add his voice, weak and humble as it was, to that of those who had spoken so ably and eloquently upon it. The noble earl had said that the Bank had been of the greatest utility to the government during the war, and had advanced many large sums to carry it on with vigour and energy; he did not mean to deny this assertion; but he could not help observing, that it was his opinion that no permanent advantage had been derived from the connexion between the government and the Bank, sufficient to compensate the evils to which it had given birth. He need not tell their lordships his opinion regarding the war which we had waged with France—that must be sufficiently well known to all of them; he need not repeat to them what he had often before stated, that he considered no sacrifice which could be made, too great to bring that war to a successful termination; but he must inform them, that even with those sentiments, he was of opinion that the restriction was an evil of such magnitude, that the sooner it was abolished, the better it would be for the country. He did not believe that any men sincerely wishing the welfare of their country could at any time resort to such a measure, without a sorrowful apprehension of the difficulties and dangers to national and individual interests which
655654653652651650649648647646║Lord Grenville
669 argued strongly against the bill in its present shape, and, to a certain extent, against its principle. The learned lord referred to several inac-
669The Lord Chancellor
 denied that there was any absurdity in the wording of the bill. That clause which went to check the inhuman practice of making females clean chimneys, was thus worded:—"Any female child, girl, or woman;" so far it was correct, and it was very proper to put a stop to so shocking a practice. He earnestly hoped that their lordships would not throw out the bill.The Marquis of Lansdowne
670 observed, that if machinery were to be employed, boys would still be exposed to as much danger as they were hitherto. He objected to this bill, because it was not fit for the legislature to lay down rules of humanity to individuals; because, by doing so, the very principles of humanity would be rooted up: for greater cruelties would then be practised, than any which the bill went to provide against. It was impossible, without great injustice and public inconvenience, for their lordships to legislate on subjects of this kind. It was somewhat of the same nature with the bill for regulating the labour of children in cotton factories; and with the poor laws. These latter originated in a mistaken spirit of humanity, the attempt to enforce which by law, had produced effects the very opposite of those which
670The Earl of Lauderdale
 supported the bill, because he understood it met with the concurrence of most of the master chimney-sweepers, and because he thought it would be productive of great benefit.Lord King
 addressed their lordships, in reply. He said, the bill did no more than adopt practical rules, that had been laid down by persons in the trade, for the better conduct of the trade; and as it tended greatly to promote the principles of humanity, by mitigating the hardships to which children were subject, he hoped their lordships would not object.Lord Auckland
 addressed their lordships in support of it. He dwelt on the hardship and cruelty of employing children under ten years of age in the sweeping of chimnies, which this bill went to prevent. Another great hardship was, that of sending children out to do what was called crying the streets for employment; and that was also to be done away. The number of apprentices kept by each master was to be limited to four, in consequence of which, these would meet with better treatment from their masters; and no female children were to be employed in climbing. It was also provided that the summary convictions should take place before two justices. All these provisions had met with the approbation of the principal persons employed in the trade of sweeping chimnies, and also with the approbation of colonel Stephenson, surveyor-general of the board of works, who would give every possible encouragement to the use of machinery. His lordship concluded by expressing his hope that the House would agree to this bill.Lord Auckland
750 was desirous that, at an early day after the recess, their lordships should have the opinion of the judges on the law relative to the coin of the realm considered as a legal tender and measure of value. The questions he wished to submit were—first, whether, after the passing of the act of 1774, the silver coinage of this country, subject to a depreciation of 20 per cent. was a legal tender by tale? Secondly, whether, under the act of the 56th of the king, chapter 68, the silver or the gold coin is the legal measure of value in this country? It was necessary that these great questions should be finally set at rest, and the public mind relieved from all uncertainty on a subject of so much interest to the country. Much depended upon what their lordships should understand to be the law with regard to the coin of the realm. If it should be decided, that the silver coin is a legal tender, that decision would have an important bearing on the measure
750The Earl of Lauderdale
749 rose to submit to their lordships a bill to relieve Roman Catholics from taking the declaratory oaths against Tran-substantiation and the Invocation of Saints. He presumed that no obstacle would be opposed to the passing of this bill, as it did not in the least interfere with any securities which some noble lords though ought to be required of the Roman Catholics. It merely affected certain dogmatic opinions, and had no reference, whatever to any question of supremacy,
749Earl Grey
802 rose to introduce a bill for regulating the ordination of persons designed to perform clerical duties in the colonies. The noble earl referred to the discussion on the subject which took place some time ago, when it appeared that considerable irregularity prevailed in the appointment of persons to discharge clerical functions in the colonies. It had been the practice for the bishop of London to ordain persons for the colonies, but that practice, though it had long existed, and was, from the necessity of the case, continued by the bishops on their own responsibility, was, according to the opinion of the crown lawyers, illegal. One of the disadvantages of this system was, that no means existed of compelling the persons so ordained to exercise their clerical functions in the colonies, while their residence or return to this country produced a superabundance of candidates for clerical duties. The wants of the colonies too, as to religious instruction, were, in consequence of this state of things, very imperfectly supplied. To remedy this evil, it was proposed by the bill to vest the power of the ordination for the colonies in the archbishops of Canterbury and York, and the bishop of London. Provisions were introduced to secure the object of the ordination, and to prevent persons who might be very proper for communicating religious instruction in the colonies, but less suited to that duty here, from availing themselves of the character they had acquired, to enter on the care of souls in this country. If residing in colonies where there was a bishop, it would be required of them, on their return, to produce a certificate from him, or from the governor of the colony, of their good conduct. Regard must also be had to ability, as well as character, for such a duty; and it was therefore proposed, that persons so returning should not be permitted to accept the cure of souls in this country, without the permission of the bishop of the diocese. By acts passed in the present reign, bishops duly consecrated were appointed to Canada, Nova Scotia, and Calcutta. These bishops possessed the power of ordination within their dioceses. It was, however, very improper to allow all the individuals ordained in the colonies, purely for domestic purposes, to come and officiate in this country. It was therefore provided, that no charge intrusted to such persons should be left with the view of leaving the settlement,
802Earl Bathurst
ll1032 said, he should not think that he discharged his duty to the public, if he moved the second reading of this bill without saying a few words to call their lordships' attention to its nature. The office, their lordships knew, had been given to the father of the noble marquis, as a reward for eminent services he had performed to his country. Whether, in the exercise of the prerogative of the Crown the granting of such an office was the best way in which rewards for public services could be given, was not a question now to be discussed. Though at the time the grant was made, it could not have been contemplated that the emoluments would prove so great, it was unquestionable, that the noble mar-
ll1032The Earl of Liverpool
 concurred in opinion with the noble earl as to the right of the Crown to give the offices in question, and the right of the two noble marquisses to the full emoluments. This question was totally independent of the propriety of making such grants. He concurred, as he doubted not all their lordships did, in every sentiment that had been expressed in approbation of the conduct of the two noble persons alluded to.The Marquis of Lansdowne
1033 made some observations on the papers, relative to the state of the navy which had been lately laid on the table. From the perusal of those papers, he admitted that in no former period of our naval history did the navy appear on the whole to have been in a state of greater efficiency in, time of peace. He spoke strongly in approbation of the exertions of Mr. Seppings, whose improvements had been of great advantage. But, notwithstanding the praise which he thought generally due to the Admiralty, there were some particulars with respect to the state of the navy which he thought it right to notice, as they might be of importance in the case of the country being involved in a contest. He could not overlook the naval power of America, which the
1033The Earl of Darnley
1034 expressed his acknowledgments to the noble lord for the candid
1034Lord Melville
*1054***1053"Cum unto commune viro""Haud timeo, si jam nequeo, defendere crimen,10521051"An office key, a picklock to a place,""To make the symbol of atoning grace,10501049 said:—Unaccustomed, and in general, very unwilling, to address your lordships; upon the present occasion, I rise, with great satisfaction, to second a motion, which, as it strikes me, those only can consistently oppose, who are prepared to maintain, that religious opinions, merely speculative, and having no influence whatever on practice, may notwithstanding, be justly made a ground, for excluding respectable individuals from situations of honour and emolument in a state; or rather, from the
*1054***1053"Cum unto commune viro""Haud timeo, si jam nequeo, defendere crimen,10521051"An office key, a picklock to a place,""To make the symbol of atoning grace,10501049The Bishop of Norwich
1055"HENRY NORWICH."** observed, that by some persons he had been described as so surrounded with prejudices and so influenced by interest, as to be capable of taking only a limited view of this subject He might be liable to the charge of prejudice, but he could assure their lordships that he had no interest
1055"HENRY NORWICH."**The Archbishop of Canterbury
1056prœmunire.instanter observed, that he had a distinct recollection of this argument having been urged by more than one noble lord on a former occasion. If, then, the oath of supremacy was not of sufficient force to exclude the Roman Catholics from parliament and from the great offices of state, the proposition now made would arrive 1056prœmunire.instanterThe Archbishop of Canterbury
1057 said, that he did not feel himself called upon to go at any length into the question proposed by the noble earl, because, on some of the points he was not aware that he had any great difference of opinion. In every period of his life, he (lord Liverpool) had supported the continuance of the Test acts; and he still thought them necessary for the preservation of our religious and civil liberties. From what had been stated by the right reverend prelate who spoke first, it appeared that this motion was founded on the necessity of abrogating the Test and Corporation acts altogether; and if he looked at the present measure as impolitic and dangerous, it was not so much on its own account as that it was an attempt to remove all those barriers at once. He was old enough to recollect when the repeal of the Test laws was the subject of controversy during a whole session. What was the principle on which it was resisted both by the legislature and by the country? It was that they were a weapon in our hands to protect and secure our civil and religious liberties; and that, while they existed, they were a most essential barrier against any attempt on the church and constitution. The noble earl had said, that he conceived there might
1057The Earl of Liverpool
l1064 began by paying some high compliments to lords Grey and Grenville, for their ability and eloquence, and then proceeded to exculpate himself from any share in the resolutions alluded to by the former. He disavowed any knowledge of them till he had seen them that morning. Addressing himself to the question before the House, he contended, that the law of the land, as expounded by its ablest writers, had defined "true allegiance" to be allegiance to the constitution in church and state, and he maintained, that the oath required by the statutes of Henry 8th and Elizabeth was merely declaratory of the common law. It was somewhat miraculous that the Whigs of the present day should denounce the Declaration act, as if it had proceeded from that most wicked king, Charles 2nd. What! had they forgotten that it was re-enacted after deliberate discussion in the first parliament of William, the founder of our civil and religious liberties? Some persons with a profusion of something which seemed meant to be law and logic, but which in his mind was neither, had held up the act of Indemnity as if it protected the Catholics as well as Protestants. Now, the act of Indemnity was no more than this; it saw that the establishments of the country were sufficiently guarded by proper enactments,
l1064The Lord Chancellor
 said, across the table, that he had alluded only to the upper House.Earl Grey
10481047104610451044104310421041‡104010391038103710361035 said, he had hoped that the bill, the second reading of which he now rose to move, would have met with the general concurrence of their lordships. That hope was founded on the reasonableness, as it appeared to him, of the bill itself, and the admission, that doc-
10481047104610451044104310421041‡104010391038103710361035Earl Grey
1067 replied with great animation. After repelling the imputation of attempting to effect ulterior objects by any insidious means, he contended that the act of Charles 2nd had been occasioned by the blind fury which agitated the minds of men of all ranks, and not by the presence of any Catholics in parliament. He now stated, after accurate inquiry, that Catholics did not then sit in parliament. The application by certain Protestants to the learned lord on the woolsack, he could not, when he considered the character of that noble lord, and his uniform disposition on this subject, ascribe to very pure and perfect zeal. It was not the intention, and it would not be the effect of this bill, to introduce Catholics into parliament: its object was conciliation. If they would apply this test, let them do it at least in decent terms. Upon what pretence could the learned lord apply the charge of superstition and idolatry to the Catholics? The invocation of saints and the sacrifice of the mass, as understood by intelligent Catholics were neither superstition nor idolatry. While no two sects agreed as to speculative opinions, and scarcely any two individuals of one sect agreed, what
1067Earl Grey
10661065 said, he would support the motion, though he doubted the expediency of reviving the subject so soon. What he had heard from his noble and learned friend who had just sat down was not calculated to remove his regret at this renewed discussion; for his noble and learned friend had advanced doctrines, in opposition to the motion, which he had trusted were for ever abandoned. His noble friend, indeed, professed his unwillingness to exclude men on account of their religious belief, but the inference from his speech was directly contrary to its declaration; for if his ap-
10661065The Earl of Harrowby
 said, that the question was, whether the oath of supremacy was sufficient to exclude Catholics from parliament? He thought not; and this he gathered from the preamble of the 30th of Charles 2nd; for if the oath of supremacy had been reckoned sufficient, all that would have been necessary in framing the act of Charles would have been to require their lordships to take the same oath heretofore taken by the Commons. Both Houses were therefore included in the new act, and the declaration was added, on the conviction that some further security was necessary to keep Catholics out of parliament. The noble earl proceeded next to show that the reference in the preamble of the bill before them to the 31st of the king indicated this to be only the first step to take away the oath of supremacy, and declared that upon this ground he must oppose it.Earl Bathurst
10631062106110601059 said, he had a totally different view of the subject from the noble lord who had just done, and had also a different idea of its policy and wisdom; After, the very able and eloquent speech of his noble friend who had made the motion, it would be unnecessary for him to add any thing to the statement so luminously laid down, and he should therefore confine himself to a few of the arguments against the motion. The noble lord then recited some of the provisions of the act of Elizabeth, and contended that persons who were entitled by their birth to a seat in that House, ought not to be deprived of it on mere presumption and false accusation, but only when imperious necessity called for such being the case. He would ask their lordships then, why the descendants of those brave men who had shed their blood in several cases for their country, and had laid the first foundation of its liberties, should be now debarred from their rights? True, that had taken place in the profligate and disgraceful reign of Charles 2nd, but why should it be continued now? Certainly their lordships ought to pause before they any longer debarred from their rights those who were entitled to those rights by their birth, and the merits and valuable services of their ancestors. With astonishment he had heard it said that the Catholic tenets were friendly to a divided allegiance. He had conversed with many of that body on this subject, and never yet did he meet a reasonable Catholic who could bear the idea of this divided allegiance. The allegiance they gave was undivided, and what the law required. Let their lordships look at the oath upon their table. They had there distinguished between allegiance and supremacy, because oaths of allegiance were taken in this country long before any oaths of supremacy were framed. Every man was bound to swear true allegiance to the country. What was allegiance? Obedience to the king in his courts of justice, obedience to him in his legislature, and in the executive ministers of his government. This was the allegiance which, he trusted, every man in this country bore to his sovereign, and this was the oath which the Roman Catholics took in the same sense in which it was taken by their lordships. There was no law in this country to enable the king to impose religious penalties on any man. If a man submitted himself to that obedience which
10631062106110601059Lord Grenville
 observed, that this was not in any manner a speculative question, but a question of practical humanity, arising out of the actual sufferings of the children employed in the cotton factories, for which no relief was to be found in any of the provisions of the common law, and therefore it became necessary to resort to a special legislative measure. His lordship proceeded to enter into some detail of the evidence given before the committee, for the purpose of showing the injury that resulted to the health of the children, from being employed for 14, 15, or 16 hours a day in places heated to 80, 85 and nearly 90 degrees, and that though the evidence of some of the medical men was upon this point contradictory, yet that there were amply sufficient facts given in evidence to prove that the ill state of health of these children, arising from the number of hours they were kept at work in the manner described, imperiously called for legislative interference to prevent that waste of human life which such a system produced.Lord Kenyon
11331132¶ said, he should not enter much into the general principles that might be discussed in application to the present subject, but should lay it down as an incontestible fact, that parents were the natural guardians of the health and prosperity of their own children, and that the legislature ought to be slow to interfere with free labour, the regulation of which would be best provided for by leaving it to the individuals immediately concerned. He would admit, at the same time, that cases of Great abuse might occur, in which it would be wise to dispense with those established principles, but the onus of proving the enormity of the case, lay with those who undertook to call for the interference of the legislature. The noble lord who preceded him, had spoken of arts used by the opponents of the measure; but its opponents might well retort the charge upon their adversaries, who had adopted every means to excite that clamour by means of which it had passed the other House of parliament last year. The noble earl then took a minute view of the evidence before the House. Many parts of it, he observed, went to show that numberless accidents happened to the children employed in the mills, but he denied that the general bearing of the evidence upon this point, justified the exaggerated inferences of some of the witnesses. The heat of the fac-
11331132¶The Earl of Rosslyn
1162d.s.l.l.s.s.s.l.1161l.1160 rose, in pursuance of the order of the day, for the consideration of his motion for obtaining the opinion of the judges on the subjects of legal tender and standard of value. His lordship moved, that the acts of the 21st of Geo. 2nd, the 13th of Geo. 3rd, ch. 72, and other acts relative to
1162d.s.l.l.s.s.s.l.1161l.1160The Earl of Lauderdale
s.l.l.s.1163l. did not think it fitting or proper to require the attendance of the judges on the questions propounded by the noble lord. When the weighty and important duties which the judges had to discharge, and the manner in which, their time was occupied, were considered, their lordships must be convinced, that it would not be right to throw any additional burthen upon them, except in a case of great necessity. It was for their lordships to consider whether a case was made out which would justify the adoption of the noble earl's proposition. In his opinion no sufficient ground was laid for the motion, because it did not appear that any result which such a proceeding might have would facilitate the decision of their lordships on the measure now before the House. Whether the act of the 56th of the king, and the proclamation respecting the coinage, had or had not been drawn up in an inaccurate and unworkmanlike manner, he should not discuss. The object of the act, and the proclamations had been obtained. There was not an individual in the city of London who had any doubt on the subject. He did not mean that there was not a theoretical difference of opinion as to what ought to be the standard of value. Some thought that gold ought to be the standard, others silver; but every one knew what the practical effect of the law was. With respect to the first question, his own opinion was very different from that of the noble lord. He believed that no diminution of weight from wear affected the legality of the tender. Under the act of the 13th of the king, which was renewed and continued to 1797, their lordships were aware that silver had been a legal tender to the amount of 25s.l.l.s.1163l.The Earl of Liverpool
1192 rose to present a Bill for Indemnifying the witnesses examined, or to be examined before the House, respecting the Barn-staple Bribery bill. Though he felt the House had inherently the privilege of protecting the witnesses whom it thought proper to examine, from any consequences arising from the disclosures made in their evidence, still the evidence, thus given might afford a clue to the discovery of circumstances, from whence injurious consequences might result to the witnesses. It might also happen, that in a borough to which a bill of this nature might be applied, the whole class of persons to be affected by such a measure might be so involved in corruption, that no means might remain of getting at the truth, for the purpose of punishing such abominable and unconstitutional corruption, but by a bill of this nature. He did not, indeed, hesitate to state it as his opinion, that, in every case of this kind, a bill similar to that he now presented, ought to be passed, in order to enable the House to
1192The Marquis of Lansdowne
1229l.122812271226 said, he rejoiced to see this bill introduced, not only because through its enactments was to be found the best road for getting out of the difficulties in which the country was involved, but on account of the sound principles of economy and legislation which it contained. It recognized a metallic standard as the only safe foundation for a circulating medium. It proposed regulations which inferred that the value of the exchanges and the price of gold depended upon the state of the currency. It inferred that the Bank, or any persons who possess the means of increasing or diminishing the currency, are invested with the power of influencing the exchanges, raising or lowering the price of gold, and altering the value of every kind of property. If those principles were false, the bill was unnecessary. It would be mere waste paper, and worse than useless. The bill, therefore, sanctioned the
1229l.122812271226The Marquis of Lansdowne
l.l.,l.;l.l.,1231l.l.1230l. said, that the present bill had met with no opposition, and required no defence. He would only say, with a reference to the general doctrine of the expediency of having a metallic standard, that though he had formerly differed in opinion from the noble lords opposite regarding the excess of paper in circulation, and the necessity of continuing the Bank restriction, he had always maintained that the restriction ought to be removed as soon as possible after the war; that we were never safe till we had traced back our steps, and had returned to a sound currency; that the restriction was only to be temporary, and ought not to last beyond the existence of the necessity which justified it; but he had always contended that the facilities which the restriction gave had mainly contributed to enable us to carry the war to a successful issue. He did not, therefore, commend the system as a permanent one. Having said thus much, he would not go further into the subject. It was a matter of great satisfaction to him, that this most vital question, after an investigation by committees of the two Houses, and after the expression of the opinions of the most enlightened individuals of the country, had been decided consistently with the general opinion of those who had studied or understood it. The noble lord had properly brought forward the other parts of the financial system, and he would now make a few remarks on what he had said. In the first year of the peace, parliament had remitted 18,000,000l.l.,l.;l.l.,1231l.l.1230l.The Earl of Liverpool
l.l.,l.1232 congratulated the House that this measure, and the opinions now entertained by the most intelligent ranks of society, had given the death-blow to those principles which had so long prevailed in the country. Looking at this subject in every point of view, he was one of those who said that it had been much misunderstood. He thought that the directors of the Bank of England had acted a part which did them the highest honour. By the act of restriction, their lordships had, in fact, transferred to the Bank of England what was once considered as the greatest power and pride of the prerogative of the Crown—the right
l.l.,l.1232The Earl of Lauderdale
1225 rose to more the order of
1225The Earl of Harrowby
 of Rutland moved the commitment of this bill.The Duke
1295 feeling, as he did, for the distress of the individuals whom it was the object of this bill to relieve, regretted that it became his public duty to oppose it; but satisfied, as he was, that the principle of it was most injurious to our manufactures, he must resist its further progress. The object of the bill was, to prevent the manufacture of the web stocking—a cheap article, which had been originally introduced when the market was in a depressed state, and for the express purpose of finding employment for a number of the workmen, who must otherwise have been altogether out of employ; but it appeared to him to be
1295The Marquis of Lansdowne
 contended, that the bill was merely a measure of regulation, and that regulations had been frequently applied to other branches of manufacture. Unless this spurious article was prohibited, the whole of the manufacture must be ruined.The Earl of Westmorland
 of Lansdowne having moved to postpone the commitment for three months, the House divided on the question, that the word "now" stand part of the question. Contents, 25; Not-contents, 27: Majority, 2. The bill was consequently lost.The Marquis
1296 said, he could not allow the bill to pass, without recording on the Journals an attempt on his part to accelerate the resumption of cash payments, instead of putting them oil' for four years. Had he been told at the commencement of the session, that he should give his consent to a measure for postponing for four years the resumption of cash payments, he should have hesitated to believe it; but under the circumstances, if his amendment were negatived, he should certainly feel it his duty to vote for the passing of the bill. His object in moving his amendment, was, that there should be sufficient evidence afforded to the public of the sincere desire of parliament to resume cash payments, particularly after the acknowledgment made by noble lords on the other side, of the error of their former opinions upon this subject. He concluded by moving, to substitute
1296Lord Holland
 observed, that if the Bank should at any time reduce their issues, in order to raise the value of their paper, the evil would carry its own correction along with it, for the public would then bring bullion to the Mint at a clear profit. By giving to the Bank the option to pay in coin, they afforded them a motive to accumulate treasure, and as the object of parliament was, that the measure should be gradual in its operation, the amendment was entitled to the consideration of the House. As some misunderstanding had arisen with respect to a statement of his the other night, he wished to repeat that, with the exception of the five millions which would be required to pay the Bank, he hoped no other loan would be necessary during peace.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that if the cheap article was to be prohibited in this instance, they might as well extend it to other branches of manufacture, and prohibit all cheap articles.The Earl of Harrowby
1345 said, that nothing could more forcibly appeal to the humanity of their lordships than the state of those unfortunate persons who were unhappily afflicted with insanity, and the legislative means of preventing them from being subjected, in their treatment and confinement, to abuses of the most flagrant and revolting nature. That abuses of that description unfortunately existed, was too clearly proved. He was aware, at the same time, that great caution was necessary in legislating upon this subject; it was undoubtedly essential that care should be taken not to prevent respectable individuals from keeping establishments for the care of persons afflicted with insanity, and it was of the utmost
1345The Marquis of Lansdowne
1346 said, it was impossible for him to give his support to the present bill, because he conscientiously believed that its regulations would tend to aggravate the malady with which the unfortunate persons were afflicted, or to retard their cure. It was of the utmost importance, with a view to the proper care of these unhappy individuals, and with a view to their recovery, that they should be under the superintendance of men, who had made this branch of medical science their peculiar study, and that the superintendance of physicians should not be interfered with. The bill gave a number of penalties, half of which were to go to the informer, and it was evident that the informer would be found amongst the attendants and servants in receptacles for lunatics, who would thus be made the judges of the conduct of the physicians, and it would be impossible for the latter, under such circumstances, to resort to many of those means which their experience taught them were most effectual for the cure of their unhappy patients; for there could not be a more false humanity than an over humanity with regard to persons afflicted with insanity. He admitted that there were great abuses, but the better way to remedy them, would be to take a cool and dispassionate view of the
1346The Lord Chancellor
13971396pari jure"Ubi civitas est career."1395dictum139413931392dicta139113901389 began by remarking on the great variety of motives that have been adduced for passing the bill before the House, and the great variety of grounds on which its policy was defended. If in the transactions between man and man in ordinary life we found a person who stated various and contradictory motives for a particular action of life, his conduct would lead to the suspicion, that those alleged motives were mere pretences, and that the real motive was concealed. If, in addition to the variety and inconsistency of his statements, we found that he accounted for his conduct on grounds of so romantic a nature, as indicated the absence of all our usual feelings, and a neglect of our most cherished interests, it would not be uncharitable to imagine, that he not only aimed at concealment, but that his real motive, if disclosed, was of too odious a character to be openly avowed and defended. Now, when he recollected the course pursued respecting this measure, he could not but feel that the above description applied to it. When he recollected what happened more particularly in another place, where it was introduced on the ground of correcting an anomaly in our criminal law, by persons that opposed themselves to any revision or improvement of the criminal code, he could not but suspect the alleged motive. That ground was afterwards deserted, as being found too narrow for the superstructure to be raised upon it; and then we were told that the measure was necessary to preserve the principles of neutrality. Subsequently it had been discovered that this foundation was still too confined, and now the House was called upon to adopt the measure before it, because the country was pledged to it by the modification introduced into our practice by the stipulation of a particular treaty, which was completely at variance with the argument in its favour drawn from the principles of neutrality. Their lordships would observe, that this last position was inconsistent with the argument of neutrality, for if the article of the treaty bore the interpretation which the noble earl had given, it was not to support our neutrality between the contending parties, but to give one a decided
13971396pari jure"Ubi civitas est career."1395dictum139413931392dicta139113901389Lord Holland
1400amicus confederatus.amicus simpliciter,1399 contended; that this law was required, notwithstanding the common law authorized, the punishment of enlistments for foreign service, as the object of this bill was to prevent the commission of the offence, which the common law could not do; The first position he should take was, that this question had nothing to do with the king of Spain. If he had acted unfairly in showing more favour to other countries, the noble earl trusted that this country was capable of manifesting its resentment; but he trusted it had had too much honour and feeling to manifest its resentment by a breach of neutrality. We had nothing to do with the consideration of liberty or slavery, superstition or independence, on the part of either of the belligerents. France, at the time of her revolution, had offered assistance to all who were disposed to resist their oppressors, and had, by doing so, raised the powers and opinions of all Europe against her. With respect to our commercial interests, he would contend, in the first place, that a bill to prevent engaging in quarrels was not likely to injure commerce. It was a new doctrine, that, by engaging in wars and quarrels, we should promote commerce. But he had special arguments to prove that this bill would promote our commerce. He had in his possession a petition from the merchants and inhabitants of Brest to their government, complaining of the interruption to their commerce occasioned by the English cruisers in the service of the South Americans. Those, too, who had the best means of information upon the subject, gave it as their opinion, that thousands and thousands had been thrown out of employment in consequence of the interruption given to commerce by the English in the service of the Insurgents. He would next reply to the argument respecting the half-pay officers. He was not one of those who imputed every case of distress and want of employment to an over-population. He, for one, believed the strength of a country to be in its inhabitants. The bill was intended to protect our population from wanton and useless diminution. But those brave men, who had fought our battles, were more entitled to our protection from this destructive warfare than other classes of persons. Let any person look to the treatment they received in South America, the sufferings and miseries those
1400amicus confederatus.amicus simpliciter,1399The Earl of Westmorland
"Illic sera rubens accendit lumina vesper.""Nosque ubi primus equis Oriens afflavit anhelis,140614051404140314021401 said, that in considering this bill in its object and in its details, he could not refrain from pronouncing it to be a measure not warranted by either the policy or the expediency of this country. He was persuaded that he should not be contradicted when he maintained that this bill was introduced not upon the ground of general policy, but in consequence of a specific application from the court of Spain, and that the whole light of general policy, had burst upon his majesty's ministers in consequence of this application. The question for the consideration of their lordships, therefore, was, 1st, the right of that power to make such a demand, and, then, the expediency, in the present circumstances of this country, of complying with that demand. Their lordships were called upon, first, to inquire, whether the demand ought to be acceded to upon any general principle of the law of nations, upon the ground of the usage of this country, or upon the stipulation of any particular treaty; and next, if the demand ought not to be acceded to on any of those grounds, to consider how far, in the present condition of the world, there existed any expediency to induce their lordships to depart from the undoubted law, and still more the feeling of this country for more than a century back. He might, if he referred to German jurists, incur the censure of criticism from the noble earl who had spoken first in this debate. All the writers upon this subject had been proscribed by the noble earl; and all the sovereigns of England who had acted upon the principles of those writers, the noble earl would not forsooth admit as any authority upon this question. He would not refer to many authorities; he would only allude to one who might stand in lieu of any other, because he did not so much give any original opinion as reduce the opinions and doctrines of others into a sort of compendium. The writer to
"Illic sera rubens accendit lumina vesper.""Nosque ubi primus equis Oriens afflavit anhelis,140614051404140314021401The Marquis of Lansdowne
1412 contended, that it was unnecessary to pass a new law interfering with the departure of individuals from this country. He expressed his readiness to concur in any measure which would have the effect of preventing armaments for Spain or South America from being fitted out in this country; but he must strongly object to a bill which went to prevent individuals, upon their own risk and responsibility, from giving their personal assistance to a foreign state. This was a length to which we ought not to go for the gratification of any foreign power. The complaint of this country against France for her conduct in the American war was, not that unprotected individuals were allowed to leave France, and to take a part in the contest between us and our colonies. But
1412The Marquis of Bute
14151414qui facit per alium facit per se,1413 was afraid that this bill was not introduced so much at the instance of a power which had claims from its weakness, as one which was overwhelming in its strength. He should wish to be convinced that no power having an influence in the private affairs of several cabinets, had any influence in promoting the present measure; but he feared that such influence had been exercised, and on that account alone he should be disposed to give his opposition to it. He was sorry that the noble earl who had given so many quotations from celebrated jurists, had not extended those quotations, and not contented himself with giving only sentences which appeared to make for his own argument. He would maintain, that the passages quoted referred to the subjects of states at war with each other, and not to such a case as that for which their lordships were then called to legislate. If the noble earl had continued to read some of the passages from which he had quoted, he would have found that they did not at all refer
14151414qui facit per alium facit per se,1413The Earl of Carnarvon
1416 wished to ask two questions. It had been asserted in debate, that no application had been made by Spain on the subject of this bill Would ministers object to a motion for all papers or correspondence with the ministers of Spain, and of other foreign courts, on this subject? Would they also object to lay before the House an account of all licences granted for the exportation of arms, and warlike stores to Old Spain; or if it were deemed more regular, he
1416Lord Holland
 wished to know whether no correspondence had taken place with the government of Spain respecting the two laws of Geo. 2nd, which were repealed by this Bill?Lord Holland
 declared, that not a single word had been said (as had been hinted) at the Congress on this subject; and that there had been no demand made by the Spanish government respecting it. Unquestionably, it was impossible for the representative of Spain in this country to look with indifference at the expeditions which were fitting out against her. But the representations which the Spanish ambassador had made to the British government were not made until he had seen that his majesty's proclamation to prohibit the entrance of British subjects into the Insurgent service was totally disregarded. Undoubtedly that representation would naturally lead to an inference, that if the law did not allow the executive to attend to it, an application to the legislature was desired. As to the production of the correspondence, he thought no sufficient ground had been laid for it, and he should oppose it, unless some stronger cause were assigned.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, the noble earl had not satisfactorily answered his question, whether reference had been made by the Spanish government to the statutes of George the 2nd.Lord Holland
.—To the best of my knowledge and recollection, no.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he had read an account of all the arms exported to Spain, and he had no objection to lay it on the table of the House. He had stated truly that no demand had been made by Spain for any legislative measure; but he allowed that Spain had made complaints of the breaches of the royal proclamation.The Earl of Harrowby
1411qui facit per alium facit per se,1410l.l.l.;l.;l.;140914081407 said, that he felt great reluctance in troubling their lordships by citing authors to whom they were not disposed to listen with any satisfaction; but he thought that they could not do better than consult the opinions of men who, sitting in their closets, had examined the history of the world, and collected the sense of preceding writers. He had looked into many of those writers, and one in particular, an author of the highest authority, appeared to him not to have expressed himself in the terms which the noble lord opposite had stated. That writer certainty said, that the leaning of his own mind was, that persons might engage in foreign service; but he limited this by adding, that it must be considered whether they were or were not allowed by their own government to engage in that service; and he concluded by saying, that every person would judge for himself upon the arguments adduced; and yet this was the
1411qui facit per alium facit per se,1410l.l.l.;l.;l.;140914081407The Earl of Harrowby
13881387138613851384138313821381138013791378 rose to move that the bill be committed. His lordship observed, that
13881387138613851384138313821381138013791378Earl Bathurst
1424 rose with peculiar pleasure to present to the House on the part of the crown, an act of grace to restore two unfortunate individuals to their full rights as British subjects. It was to reverse the attainder of lord Edward Fitzgerald, by which the blood of his two children, Edward Fox Fitzgerald and Louisa Maria Fitzgerald, had become corrupted. The preamble of the present bill contained three reasons why the former bill should be reversed. The first was, that the individual in question had never been brought to trial, owing to circumstances to which he should do nothing more than allude at present; the second was, that the act of attainder had not passed the Irish parliament till some months after his decease: and the third, which arose out of the two first, was, that as he had not had the benefit of a trial, the attainder could not have been issued against him upon a regular conviction. He thought that these were sufficient reasons for the House to accede to the bill; but, even if they were not, he implored their lordships to recollect that he stood before them as the advocate of unoffending and innocent individuals. One of them had served his country in the field, and had distinguished himself by his gallant behaviour on several occasions: to him, therefore, as well as to his sister, the boon now proposed would be peculiarly gratifying. The Crown, in proposing this
1424The Earl of Liverpool
 confessed his inability to restrain the feelings by which he was then agitated. He must, therefore, express his gratitude to his Royal Highness for the act of grace which he had just caused to be proposed to the House; he must express his acknowledgments to the noble earl, for the honourable and manly manner in which he had proposed it; and he must return his most heartful thanks to the gallant duke, for the flattering testimony which he had borne to the merits of one of the individuals who were to be benefited by it. He felt great satisfaction at the manner in which the preamble was worded, both on private and public accounts. With the private reasons it would be improper to trouble their lordships; and with the public reasons, it would be both injudicious and ungrateful to interfere, on an occasion where unanimity was of so much importance. However, he might have differed in the course of his public life from the noble earl opposite, he was happy to state that that difference had never destroyed or diminished the private attachment which subsisted between them; and in the present instance, he must say, that the dearest friend whom he had in existence, could not have conferred an essential favour upon him in a manner more congenial to his fiord Holland's) feelings, than that which the noble earl had just adopted. He must, therefore, beg leave, both as a public and a private man, to return him his most sincere thanks for the generous and kind-hearted attention which he had exhibited towards the individuals whose interests this bill was calculated to advance.Lord Holland
 said, he could not let the present opportunity pass by without bearing testimony to the brave and honourable and excellent conduct of the young man in question, during the time that he had been acquainted with him.The Duke of Wellington
1515 briefly stated his objections to the bill, as tending, in the first place, to cause a considerable increase of expense in providing proper accommodation for the children, who were to be taken from their parents; and in the next place, to encourage improvidence and profligacy by refusing relief to persons who struggled to bring up their families in decent and moral habits, and giving it to those who, through improvident marriages or profligate habits, either were unable to maintain their children, or gave them nothing but a vicious example, and refused them a proper support. But his last, and strongest objection was, that the bill, by taking away children from their parents, tended di-
1515The Marquis of Lansdowne
 characterized the measure as one of doubtful utility, it being very problematical whether it would do more good or harm; and therefore he thought it much better not to try the experiment. It had been said that this measure, though causing considerable adpitional expense at first, would ultimately lead to an economical expenditure of the poor-rates. But, in every project that had been presented to him, it had always been stated, that though a considerable additional expense would be at first incurred, yet economy would be the result; and the continual repetition of similar promises had rendered him very suspicious of any measure where such a promise was held out; let economy be the first result, and he should be disposed to pay more attention to it.The Earl of Liverpool
 thought, that the additional accommodation required for the children might, in most parishes, be provided at a moderate charge. It was of the utmost consequence that the children of profligate parents, who had nothing before their eyes but continuat scenes of vice and immorality, should be removed from the corruption of such an example, for the purpose of having that education given to them which might render them useful members of society; and as to breaking the ties of affection, they would be so immediately in the neighbourhood of their parents, that all their domestic relations might be preserved unimpaired.The Earl of Harrowby
, in consequence of its being impossible, at that late period of the session, to come to any agreement respecting the provisions in the Insolvent Debtor's Bill, moved to postpone it for three months, stating that he should give his support to the bill which it was understood would be sent up from the other House, for continuing, for a limited time, the old Insolvent act.Lord Auckland
"Thus, Sir, I have endeavoured, shortly, and I am aware how imperfectly, to notice the various duties which have devolved upon us, in one of the longest and most arduous sessions in the records of parliament. The bill, Sir, which it is my duty to present to your Royal Highness, is intituled, 'An act for applying certain monies therein mentioned for the service, of the year 1819, and for further appropriating the supplies granted in this session of parliament. To which, with all humility, we pray his Majesty's royal assent.1571"Sir, in adopting this course, his Majesty's faithful Commons did not conceal from themselves that they were calling upon the nation for a great exertion; but well knowing that honour, and character, and independence, have at all times been the first and dearest objects of the hearts of Englishmen, we felt assured, that there was no difficulty that the country would not encounter, and no pressure to which she would not willingly and cheerfully submit, to enable her to main-
1571l.l."In considering, Sir, the state of our finances, and in minutely comparing our income with our expenditure, it appeared to us, that the excess of our income was not fairly adequate for the purposes to which it was applicable—the gradual reduction of the national debt. It appeared to us that a clear available surplus of at least 5,000,000l.l."Early, Sir, in the present session, we instituted an inquiry into the effects produced on the exchanges with foreign countries, and the state of the circulating medium, by the restriction on payments in cash by the Bank. This inquiry was most anxiously and most deliberately conducted, and in its result led to the conclusion, that it was most desirable, quickly, but with due precautions, to return to our ancient and healthful state of currency; that whatever might have been the expediency of the acts for the suspension of payments in cash at the different periods at which they were enacted (and doubtless they were expedient, whilst the country was involved in the most expensive contest that ever weighed down the finances of any country), still that the necessity for the continuance of these acts having ceased, it became us with as little delay as possible (avoiding carefully the convulsion of too rapid a transition) to return to our ancient system; and that if at any period, and under any circumstances, this return could be effected without national inconvenience, it was at the present, when this mighty nation, with a proud retrospect of the past, after having made the greatest efforts, and achieved the noblest objects, was now reposing in a confident, and, as we fondly hope, a well-founded expectation of a sound and lasting peace.1570"But, Sir, of those measures which we have completed, the most prominent, the most important, and, as we trust, in their consequences, the most beneficial to the public, are the measures which have grown out of the consideration of
1570"Upon many of these subjects we have been engaged in long and unwearied examinations; but such has been the pressure of other business, and particularly of that which ordinarily belongs to a first session of parliament; and such the magnitude and intricacy of many of those inquiries, that the limits of the present session have not allowed of bringing them to a close."The subjects which have occupied our attention, have been more numerous, more various, and more important, than are usually submitted to the consideration of parliament in the same session."We, his Majesty's faithful Commons of the united kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in parliament assembled, attend your Royal Highness with our concluding bill of supply."May it please your Royal Highness; delivered at the bar the following Speech:
"Thus, Sir, I have endeavoured, shortly, and I am aware how imperfectly, to notice the various duties which have devolved upon us, in one of the longest and most arduous sessions in the records of parliament. The bill, Sir, which it is my duty to present to your Royal Highness, is intituled, 'An act for applying certain monies therein mentioned for the service, of the year 1819, and for further appropriating the supplies granted in this session of parliament. To which, with all humility, we pray his Majesty's royal assent.1571"Sir, in adopting this course, his Majesty's faithful Commons did not conceal from themselves that they were calling upon the nation for a great exertion; but well knowing that honour, and character, and independence, have at all times been the first and dearest objects of the hearts of Englishmen, we felt assured, that there was no difficulty that the country would not encounter, and no pressure to which she would not willingly and cheerfully submit, to enable her to main-
1571l.l."In considering, Sir, the state of our finances, and in minutely comparing our income with our expenditure, it appeared to us, that the excess of our income was not fairly adequate for the purposes to which it was applicable—the gradual reduction of the national debt. It appeared to us that a clear available surplus of at least 5,000,000l.l."Early, Sir, in the present session, we instituted an inquiry into the effects produced on the exchanges with foreign countries, and the state of the circulating medium, by the restriction on payments in cash by the Bank. This inquiry was most anxiously and most deliberately conducted, and in its result led to the conclusion, that it was most desirable, quickly, but with due precautions, to return to our ancient and healthful state of currency; that whatever might have been the expediency of the acts for the suspension of payments in cash at the different periods at which they were enacted (and doubtless they were expedient, whilst the country was involved in the most expensive contest that ever weighed down the finances of any country), still that the necessity for the continuance of these acts having ceased, it became us with as little delay as possible (avoiding carefully the convulsion of too rapid a transition) to return to our ancient system; and that if at any period, and under any circumstances, this return could be effected without national inconvenience, it was at the present, when this mighty nation, with a proud retrospect of the past, after having made the greatest efforts, and achieved the noblest objects, was now reposing in a confident, and, as we fondly hope, a well-founded expectation of a sound and lasting peace.1570"But, Sir, of those measures which we have completed, the most prominent, the most important, and, as we trust, in their consequences, the most beneficial to the public, are the measures which have grown out of the consideration of
1570"Upon many of these subjects we have been engaged in long and unwearied examinations; but such has been the pressure of other business, and particularly of that which ordinarily belongs to a first session of parliament; and such the magnitude and intricacy of many of those inquiries, that the limits of the present session have not allowed of bringing them to a close."The subjects which have occupied our attention, have been more numerous, more various, and more important, than are usually submitted to the consideration of parliament in the same session."We, his Majesty's faithful Commons of the united kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in parliament assembled, attend your Royal Highness with our concluding bill of supply."May it please your Royal Highness;The Speaker
 Speech having been again read by the Lord Chancellor, and also by the clerk at the table,The Prince Regent's
 rose to second the address of his noble friend, of which he said he highly approved. His lordship spoke for some time, but in a tone of voice inaudible below the bar. He came forward, he said, as an independent peer of parliament, to give his feeble but honest support to the government of his royal highness the Prince Regent at a crisis like the present, which was undoubtedly one of great difficulty and danger.Lord Churchill
2625242322 said, he was induced to solicit their lordships attention in consequence of the manner in which the noble earl who had just sat down had thought fit to allude to events involving great official responsibility—a responsibility which attached principally, if not exclusively, to himself. The noble earl had commenced his speech with an admission of the existence of present danger. Indeed, he did not believe there was an individual either in this or the other House of Parliament, or in the kingdom, who was not prepared to make the same concession. The noble earl had attributed those dangers to the neglect of parliament in the performance of its duties. How far that proposition was well founded, their lordships were perfectly competent to judge It was within their lordships' recollection, that in the course of the last session of parliament military retrenchment had taken place to an extent which appeared to satisfy every individual calling for retrenchment. Another call which had been made on the House was for the abolition of sinecure places. In this, too, government had conceded to the supposed wishes of the country: whether those concessions had or had not been carried too far, was a question which events would probably demonstrate. With regard to the military retrenchment, those noble lords who had experience of the present state of the country, and who felt the insufficiency of the means which were af-
2625242322Lord Sidmouth
l.33 observed, that the assertion of the noble secretary of state, that misstatements had gone abroad on the subject of the Manchester transactions, laid the strongest ground for inquiry. The speech of the noble secretary was remarkable for its coincidence with every thing that government had done regarding the melancholy transactions of the 16th of August. It contained not one expression of regret. The letter of thanks to the magistrates, the answer to the city address, the speech from the throne, and the address now proposed in answer to it, were all silent on this head. The magistrates had been approved of in a high quarter, but it was certain they were not approved of by the nation. It must be allowed on all hands that they had committed indiscretions; at least they had been guilty of rashness and precipitation. Magistrates might act lawfully, and yet be guilty of indiscretion. They had a title to apprehend the individuals upon proper depositions, but they might have been indiscreet in selecting the moment for their apprehension. Why did they not issue their warrants before the meeting? Why did they not prevent the meeting by declaring it illegal? or why not wait till it had dispersed, to apprehend its leaders? The dangers, if there
l.33Lord King
3736 observed, with reference to the present situation of the country, that the artifices of factious demagogues were working on the loyal and industrious poor, by means of the worst poison that ever contaminated the public—a poison sufficient to awaken the horror and detestation of the government under which we lived. He did not mean to dwell on the particular circumstances of the Manchester meeting, but to state what he knew from local experience of the northern part of the kingdom, with which he was more immediately connected. He did not hesitate to say, that a short time ago, a more moral and religions set of people did not exist; but he knew that attempts had been made to corrupt them, although those attempts had not perhaps
3736The Duke of Athol
 said, that the liberties of the people were involved in the protection of the constituted authorities, whose reputation could not suffer without injury to those over whom they presided. He would ask, then, whether some of the speeches of noble lords, who pretended to be the exclusive champions of liberty, were not calculated to degrade that respect which was due to the magistracy? In advocating their cause, he advocated the cause of the people. The little he had to say should be confined to his own local knowledge. He had received information from persons in the middle rank of society, not of the privileged orders, but men of sound judgment, and without prejudice or partiality; he held this correspondence in his hands, and he should state two or three passages from it. Its date commenced with January, 1819, and it stated that the radicals, in urging parliamentary reform, and decrying the corn bill, only meant to excite a prejudice against the landholders; that the people in the quarter in which he resided were goaded on by reformers, and ready for any act of desperation; that their minds were assailed by seditious tracts, and if sedition was allowed to go on they would write down any government on earth. The cotton trade had improved, and he was sure would improve, if not prevented by the madness of those men—but reform had got possession of their minds; it mixed with all their habits and ideas, and constituted the subject of all their conversation. He was a man of but plain intellect, and did not pretend to see far before him; but it did appear to him to be a strange per. version of optics to see only the possible mischief that might accrue from government, and to be blind to the immediate danger already flowing from the conduct of the people. For his part, he was willing to give, by his vote, a pledge of his opinion, that in the present state of the country some remedy was necessary to check the mischief which he saw existing.Lord Lilford
 begged to be allowed to supply an omission in his speech: it was, that he knew personally the character of the magistrates at Manchester: he knew them to be men of the highest integrity: he knew also that they were most desirous of inquiry.Lord Lilford
4039 said, that whatever might be the tendency of parliamentary inquiry to allay local uneasiness, and however much he might, as an individual, wish it for the sake of justifying the character of the magistrates, yet, looking at the question in his public capacity, he must say, that no such inquiry as was called for could be granted consistently with the spirit of the laws of the country. No noble lord had ventured to say that the meeting at Manchester was a legal meeting. When he considered what proceedings were now in progress in the courts of Taw, be almost feared to speak out his opinion; but when he read in his law-books that numbers constituted force, and force terror, and terror illegality, he felt that no man could say that the Manchester meeting was not an illegal one. It was a new and somewhat strange ground that was taken on the present occasion by the advocates for the liberty of the subject. He had, to be sure, often heard it stated on former occasions to the attorney-general, when he filed an information, "Why have you done so? why have you not adopted the old constitutional course of laying the complaint before a grand jury?" whereas, now the cry was, "Why do you not, since that constitutional tribunal a grand jury, has rejected the bills, instantly file an unconstitutional information in order to allay the popular ferment?" He felt from the bottom of his heart that the meanest subject of this country was better than the highest of any other country under heaven; but he would be no longer so, if he gave up his ear and soul to those evil counsellors who
4039The Lord Chancellor
444342 began by observing, that in the discharge of his public duty he proposed, if no such motion should emanate from the government, or from any other quarter, to move for an inquiry into the causes of the proceedings at Manchester which occasioned so much and such just disquiet. He rose, however, now to state his reasons for voting for the amendment—a determination which he had come to, not without great anxiety, but which was not the less firm, and which he conceived to be perfectly compatible with the recommendation of the speech from the throne. He must first avow most distinctly, that the amendment would not have had his concurrence, unless it had most unequivocally expressed the utmost abhorrence at the abominable and persevering attempts which had now been made for two years past to subvert the allegiance of the lower orders. Indeed, he did not think any man was entitled to public confidence who was not prepared to come forward with such an avowal. He thought, however, that this confession of danger should be followed up by a proposition calculated to allay any exaggerated alarm—he meant, by the parliamentary assurance, that their lordships were not asleep at their posts, but were ready to consider fully and impartially, not only whether the public peace had been broken, but also whether the lives of his majesty's subjects had not been wantonly endangered. The transactions at Manchester, on the face of them, demanded inquiry; but what said the noble viscount? He said that he had only meant by his opinion, uttered on the spur of the occasion, to express a confidence in the magistracy of the country, and not to prejudge the facts of the case. The noble viscount had talked a great deal about his anxiety, and as proof of it, had related the mode by which he came to his decision. He told their lordships that two persons had come up to him from
444342The Marquis of Lansdowne
48474645 observed, that as the noble marquis had given notice of a motion for inquiry, he should not now enter into any details, but he could not let the speech of the noble marquis go by without one or two observations. The amendment proposed by the noble earl, and recommended by the noble marquis, was in part true, but alluded to circumstances not fit subjects for discussion that day. They were that day called to give a test of their readiness to do their duty to the nation generally, and not to refer to any particular subjects on which the widest difference of opinion prevailed. He would defy the noble marquis to tell where an inquiry had ever taken place under circumstances similar to the affair at Manchester. The cases of the year 1793, and of the year before last, had no reference to the conduct of individuals, but embraced the consideration of precautionary measures for the nation generally. What analogy was there between those cases and the present? Besides, how was a parliamentary inquiry to be instituted? It could only be done by suspending the functions of the courts of law, and by silencing all subordinate tribunals. But, how can proceedings there be stopped? They are begun, and already far advanced. The noble viscount had been spoken of as
48474645The Earl of Liverpool
, in explanation, said, he considered that the calling the magistrates before parliament could not be more improper than the measure of calling other magistrates, at least equal to themselves in rank and consequence, before the same tribunal on a former occasion. He did not know that the summoning of the Scotch magistrates on a question involving their conduct, before that House, had reflected any disgrace or dishonour upon them.The Marquis of Lansdowne
49 animadverted upon the declaration of the noble earl, that it was impossible for parliament to go into any inquiry upon judicial proceedings. Notwithstanding all that had been said and published on the subject, he could not believe that there was a man in the country who did not think the interference of the military on the occasion alluded to unnecessary. It was stated, that though they brought their wives and children to the spot, yet, that this circumstance offered no proof that it was not meant and known to be an illegal meeting; and that when women came into the midst of such scenes, they lost the softness and tenderness natural to them. With all deference to the noble duke, from whom this ingenious argument had proceeded, he must acknowledge that it did not appear to him very natural that they would bring their wives or children for the purpose of being mangled or slain. He offered no opinion of his own as to the legality of this meeting; but he was far from being satisfied, that the only le-
49The Earl of Carnarvon
50 said, he would not now enter into the question whether the Manchester meeting was legal or not, nor into the conduct of the magistrates or yeomanry. Their conduct, upon the occasion alluded to, if improper, was open to investigation, before the proper tribunals. He had heard as yet no argument sufficient to persuade him that they should, upon the present occasion, deprive them of the advantages of the trial by jury. The point at issue now was between the address and the amendment, between ministers and those who opposed them. The case was one of no difficulty. It presented itself without the labour of much investigation to the mind of every person. There was not one man in that House or out of it, who did not know that the country was in a state of danger. They all saw the same exertions now making, plans of the very same kind pursued, as, at no distant period, brought upon a neighbouring country revolution, anarchy, and, at last, a degrading despotism. The state is which they were
50The Marquis of Buckingham
, in explanation, observed, that he had carefully abstained from saying any thing respecting the character of the magistrates, though he certainly had a very strong opinion as to their conduct; but all he wished was a full, fair, and impartial inquiry; for if, as was said, their conduct was capable of justification, an inquiry was the more necessary even on that account.Earl Grey
38 took that opportunity to explain, that, with reference to the objection that any parliamentary inquiry would be extrajudicial, he had stated, that according to this mode of reasoning, it might happen that ministers might Order the most illegal acts, such, for instance, as the levying of ship-money; and yet parliament might be precluded from any exami-
38Earl Grey
21201918l.l.17161514131211primâ facie1098765 rose. He said, that had he not been aware of the state of the country, the speech from the throne, the address which had been moved in reply to it, and the language used by the noble lord who moved, and the noble lord who seconded that address, would be sufficient to convince him that parliament had never as-
21201918l.l.17161514131211primâ facie1098765Earl Grey
4 rose to move an address to his Royal Highness, in answer to the most gracious speech which had then been read. He hoped he might be permitted to observe, that he had never before had the honour of addressing their lordships, and that he felt himself unable adequately to discharge the important duty which he had undertaken. He found it necessary, therefore, to appeal
4Earl Manvers
3534 said, it was our
3534The Earl of Carysfort
323130292827, in rising to support the amendment, said, that although he could add nothing to recommend it to the adoption of the House, because it had in his opinion, received no answer whatsoever from the noble secretary of state, though of all others the most bound to justify its rejection, yet he could not content himself with giving a silent vote, to be perhaps passed over in the published list of a division. He wished all the people of this land to know, that he was still in his place, as he ever had been when the rights of the people were invaded; and upon the present occasion, they had not only been most manifestly invaded, but wantonly trampled upon and insulted.—The unquestionable merit of his noble friend's amendment was, that whilst it supported the address in every part of it that pointed out any public offence or danger, and to all that pledged the House to maintain order and tranquillity, yet at the same time it justly and prudently called upon them to examine into the causes of the discontent and disorder which they condemned; to pledge them also to support the liberty of the subject under the laws, and to suffer no wrong which might have been committed under the
323130292827Lord Erskine
41 explained. He did not say that an hour after the reading of the Riot act was requisite before the law of the country could be enforced against tumultuous assemblies. On various perilous occasions he had been put to the test, and did not then think that an hour was requisite. During the riots of 1780, when the mob was preparing to attack the house of lord Mansfield, he was in Bloomsbury-square, and attended with some military, when he offered to defend the house. He was also in the Temple when the mob was preparing to force the gate, and when several houses in London were on fire, and he went forward to the gate, which he opened, and stood beside a field-piece, prepared to fire, in case the attack was persisted in. In such cases every man was a magistrate, every subject was bound to act, to defend his country and its laws. But the rioting mob of London in 1780, was different from the assembled multi-
41Lord Erskine
 rose to introduce a bill. He begged leave to assure their lordships, that it did not arise out of the circumstances of the times. It was well known that it had been his intention to introduce this bill, whether the circumstances which at present called for their consideration had occurred or not. He then proceeded to describe the object of the bill. He stated, that it was the practice of the courts to allow defendants, in cases of information or indictments to imparle or traverse. The effect of which was, to gain time till the next term or sessions. The effect of this practice had been, in several instances, that the trials of individuals against whom informations had been filed, or indictments found, had been so delayed that the prosecution failed to answer any of the purposes for which it was commenced. His object, therefore, in the present bill, was, to take away the right of imparling or traversing, by compelling the parties to plead in the term or at the sessions in which the information should be filed or the indictment found, unless, upon any special grounds urged, the court should think proper to allow the parties to imparle or traverse. This would prevent those unnecessary delays to which he had already adverted, without in any way interfering with substantial justice. His lordship presented the bill, which was read a first time.The Lord Chancellor
nolle prosequi?343ex officio wished to understand distinctly the object of the bill. He had not caught sufficiently the expressions of the noble and learned lord to understand whether the bill was intended equally to apply to imparling and traversing, to prevent both, or in what particular way it was in that respect to operate. He wished, therefore, for further information upon those points. There was another point also respecting which he wished to know whether any provision was introduced into the bill—he alluded to informations filed nolle prosequi?343ex officioLord Holland
ex officio said, that what was called imparling in civil actions, was more generally known by the name of traversing in cases of prosecution for misdemeanor, and it was the right arising out of this practice, which it was the object of the bill to take away, except in those cases where, from special circumstances, the court, either of king's bench or at the sessions, should deem it advisable to allow the party the benefit of traversing. Respecting ex officioThe Lord Chancellor
349348347346345344 to call the attention of their lordships to the measures which the ministers of his royal highness the Prince Regent thought it necessary to propose in the present situation of the country. He trusted that their lordships would find those measures to be such as would suit the necessity of the case, with-
349348347346345344Lord Sidmouth rose
355354 said, he did not rise for the purpose of entering on the discussion of any of the bills which had been submitted to the House. The question now was as to the first reading; and to this there seemed to be no objection. But he could not allow the speech of the noble earl to go forth to the world without some reply, as it was calculated, if left uncontradicted, to produce a false impression. The noble earl had treated the proposed measures as a system of coercion; whereas he (lord Liverpool) was prepared to maintain that they composed a system of protection. If they prevented those acts which endangered the existence of our rights, they were the best safeguards of those rights. He was prepared to deny that any one of them, with the exception of the bill relative to the search of arms, went to affect the proper, legal, and well-understood privileges of Englishmen. The bill for preventing seditious meetings, so far from having any tendency to abridge the right of petition, was its best protection by putting a stop to those tumultuous assemblages which had grown out of a good, but which might endanger that good, by disgusting every Englishman with such an exercise of it. The bill before the House would thus give the right of petition tenfold additional security. It was a bill not to prevent meetings of the people in their own districts, but to put a stop to the assembling of great multitudes collected from distant parts, and guided by demagogues, who stimulated their minds to a hatred and contempt of every thing dignified or venerable. If such evils were allowed to proceed to greater inveteracy, how could they be put down? Why, by military force. And would any good man, or lover of his country, wish "such a result? No; therefore such disorders must be checked and put down in time. Those were the best friends of the right, who prevented its abuse. The other bill regarding restraints on the press, he was prepared to contend, must be viewed in the same light, the noble earl had not understood the extent of the evil of seditious and blasphemous publications, or the power of the law as it at present stood in checking them.
355354The Earl of Liverpool
353352351350 said, he should object to so early a day as Thursday being fixed upon for the second reading of these bills. The noble secretary had, indeed, prefaced the proposition of his new measures with a statement which contained the grounds on which he meant to support them; and, by the connected view which he gave of the whole system, had enabled the House to understand the extent of the demands to be made upon it; yet their lordships would necessarily expect more information than had yet been given, before they proceeded to legislate, and would require that the introduction of each bill should be accompanied with a clear exposition of the reasons which rendered it necessary, or justified its enactment. On that day the House was summoned to the discussion of the bill brought in by the noble and learned lord on the wool-sack, which contemplated, as was rightly stated by the noble and learned lord, a most important alteration in the existing law of the land, an alteration which could not be allowed to take place without the fullest investigation, and the evidence of its necessity. With the prospect of this discussion on the second reading of the noble and learned lord's bill, their lordships would not, he was convinced, consent to appoint the second reading of three other important bills on the same day. The noble secretary had called upon their lordships to support his proposed measures, from a consideration of the dangers by which they were surrounded; and if he could be prevailed upon to think that the bills now before the House could meet and repress the evils described, he would be the first
353352351350Earl Grey
433432431430429428427426425424423422s.s.s.421420primâ facie419 rose, in pursuance of his notice, in furtherance of a duty, the importance of which he most seriously felt, to propose to their lordships to appoint a committee to inquire into the state of the country, and more particularly with reference to the distress of the manufacturing districts, and the execution of the laws. In doing this, he felt all the difficulty of the task he had under-taken, and was sensible how much reason he had to lay claim to their lordships' indulgence for the details into which he should find it necessary to enter in bringing this important subject under their consideration. He was aware, however, that he came before them at a time when there could be little difference of opinion as to the momentous nature of the subject on which he was addressing them. It had been common, and nothing was more natural on ordinary occasions, to impute to noble lords on that side of the House,
433432431430429428427426425424423422s.s.s.421420primâ facie419The Marquis of Lansdowne
438437✶✶436Ipsa silentia terrent.435434 expressed his full sense of the praise that was due, and the importance that must attach, to the able and statesman-like speech of the noble marquis who had just sat down—a speech distinguished by those comprehensive views, and embellished from those sources of literature with which his mind was adorned, and which rendered his eloquence and opinions entitled, upon all occasions, to the attention and respect of the national council. After, however, following the noble marquis as closely as he could through his eloquent address, he thought it amounted to no more than this—that in all the complicated and varied perils of a state, the causes of those perils must be of a complicated and various nature, and the remedies must likewise be complicated and various. But this was not the question now to be solved. The question, in all cases of threatened danger to the institutions of a country, would be with all able statesmen, and all great and wise states, what was the paramount duty of the hour? The noble marquis had said, with an eloquence and manliness characteristic of his accomplished mind, that violence must be subdued by force, and sedition repressed by law; but that their lordships ought to inquire into the cause of that violence which must be so subdued, and of that sudition which must be so repressed. In every word of this he entirely agreed with the noble marquis; but the question to-night was, whether, though much violence had been done, worse violence was not intended—whether sedition was not in existence which had not yet been put down by law—whether we had not arrived at' that state of constitutional danger which called for exclusive consideration—whether we
438437✶✶436Ipsa silentia terrent.435434The Marquis of Wellesley
 disclaimed Having spoken of any such necessity.The Marquis of Lansdowne
here, and every where;yourselves448opinionsovert acts447face to facegravelyperhaps446445444443442 said;—My lords, I have listened with great attention to the very; eloquent speech of the noble marquis who has just sat down; and if I could at all agree with him in the facts which he assumes, I should not be disposed to differ from him, either as to the dangers which surround us, or the duty imposed upon the House for the public safety: neither should I differ from lord Holt as to the powers of the magistracy, when the state is in imminent peril, or the peaces dangerously broken. My opinion is that they are amply sufficient, as they have been found for ages; and that if they are defective they ought to be amended. But the difference between us is upon the facts, and not upon the; law; supposing however the proposed bills to be necessary, and necessary without delay, surely the proposal of my noble friend would not at all delay that consideration. The bills might be considered in their ordinary progress, without at all clashing with the important objects to be considered by a select committee which you are called upon by the motion to embrace, and which, on the very first day of the session, ought in another shape to have been our earliest duty.here, and every where;yourselves448opinionsovert acts447face to facegravelyperhaps446445444443442Lord Erskine
* rose, and spoke to the following effect:*Lord Grenville
478477476475474473472471470469468467466in terrorem populi465464463462461460459458457456455454453452451450449**;—The admission with which
478477476475474473472471470469468467466in terrorem populi465464463462461460459458457456455454453452451450449**My Lords
494493492491primâ facie490489488487in terrorem populi486l.485ipsa silentia terrent.484483482481480479 expressed his sincere regret at the difference of opinion which now existed between himself and his noble friend, to whom he had been peculiarly attached, not only by the ties of political connexion, but by the more endearing bonds of personal friendship—a regret which he felt the more keenly from his
494493492491primâ facie490489488487in terrorem populi486l.485ipsa silentia terrent.484483482481480479Earl Grey
prima facie506505504ex parte503502501500499498"The part which kings or states can cause or cure!""How small, of all the ills that men endure,497496495 apologised to the House for addressing them at that late hour, after all he could say had been anticipated by the noble marquis, and also by the noble baron who had that night delivered one of the ablest and most eloquent speeches that had ever been heard in that House. He could not, however, in justice to the cause which his noble friends had taken up, in justice to himself, or in justice to the administration with whom he acted, suffer this question to go to the vote, without delivering his opinions upon it. How injurious so ever he
prima facie506505504ex parte503502501500499498"The part which kings or states can cause or cure!""How small, of all the ills that men endure,497496495The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he should support the motion, and contended, that this was a subject on which the minds of the people required to be satisfied, and on which an inquiry was absolutely necessary.The Earl of Darnley
 replied. He was perfectly ready to admit that he was favourably disposed to the principle of some of the measures about to be adopted; but to others of them he was decidedly adverse. Whatever opinion might be entertained of them could not affect the propriety of the inquiry he proposed; which would be honourable to the House, satisfactory to the country, and would give to the magistrates an opportunity of vindicating their conduct.The Marquis of Lansdowe
 contended, that the papers before the House did not afford sufficient ground for the measures proposed, and in particular, that the allegation in the preamble of the bill respecting training was not made out. If their lordships found the enactments of the bill unexceptionable, still they ought not to adopt the preamble as a ground for such legislation. His lordship then argued, that the present measures were in themselves far more objectionable than the act to which the noble secretary of state had referred. He believed they would not have the effect which was expected from them. Transportation he considered much too severe a punishment for the offence of drilling. In the course of his long experience in the courts below, he had always found that severity of enactment defeated its purpose. He was therefore of opinion that ministers would be more likely to succeed in their object by making the penalty less. With regard to the bill for the seisure of arms, though it was only temporary the powers which it gave were so extraordinary, that their lordships would surely pause before they sanctioned it. After the assertion in the preamble, the bill proceeded thus:—"Be it therefore enacted, that it shall be lawful for any justice of the peace, upon the information upon oath of one or more credible witnesses, that he or they believe that any pike, pike-head, or spear, is in the possession of any person or persons, or in any house or place," &c. The clause then went on to say, "or any dirk, dagger, pistol, or other weapon," and authorized the issuing of warrants to seize arms, and search any house by night or by day. From the terms in which this clause was framed, he must contend that the most loyal person in the country, within the operation of the bill, would be liable to have his house searched, and if any arms were found, might be made liable to all the penalties of this severe law. The people were entitled by the constitution to have arms for their defence; and if a measure of this kind were rendered necessary by local circumstances, it was fit their lordships should look carefully to its provisions.Lord Erskine
580, though aware that the noble and learned lord who had just sat down ought to be better qualified than
580Lord Lilford
581 gave full weight to the observations which had fallen from the noble lord, but still could not rely on the truth of the evidence generally. He had been taught by experience to place no implicit faith in such informations. Their lordships might recollect, that a great mass of similar informations had in 1794, been referred to committees of both Houses of parliament; and that, upon the reports made by those committees, indictments for high-treason were found against certain individuals. When, however, the persons accused were tried they were acquitted. There was evidence enough to satisfy parliament, but not evidence enough to satisfy a jury of the country. Recollecting these things, he could not place confidence in such evidence as appeared in the papers on the table. The noble lord surely would not say, that anonymous information was to be relied upon by the House with as much assurance as the evidence of persons whose names were made public, and who might be called before them. When testimony was given, he liked to see the witness's face; and if an opportunity for that was afforded, it might be ascertained whether the evidence came from a spy or not. He must say that the mea-
581Lord Erskine
582, in consequence of what had fallen from his noble and learned friend, thought it necessary to state, that when he found it his duty, in 1794, to prefer charges of high treason against certain individuals, he did not proceed on the credit of any report of cither House of parliament, but upon the credit which he gave to information on oath. His noble and learned friend thought that England would be unlike England when these bills were passed; but he would ask their lordships what they supposed England would be like if they did not pass? It was only by passing these bills that they could preserve the country from destruction. He always paid the highest respect to the opinion of his noble and learned friend, but it appeared that, on the present occasion, he had misunderstood the clause in the act relative to the seizure of arms. It was not the mere possession of any dirk, dagger, pistol, or other weapon, that gave the power of searching a house, but the possession of some such weapon "for any purpose dangerous to the public peace." The overlooking of these words made an important difference in the view of the clause. A man might be possessed of a dagger, not only without any improper, but for a laudable purpose. He recollected being in the House of Commons when a great man, now no more (Mr. Burke), but whose memory was stamped with immortality, threw down a dagger on the floor in the course of his speech. That dagger was still preserved, but the person in whose possession it was, certainly did not hold it "for any purpose dangerous to the public peace," but in order that it might be transmitted to posterity as a memorial of that great man who had been instrumental in bringing about the adoption of the course of policy which had saved the country, and rendered England what England now was. With regard to the constitutional question of
582The Lord Chancellor
 regarded the reports of the secret committees of 1794 as standing on unquestionable authority. There was not a single fact in them, which, when brought before a jury, was disputed or discredited. The attempt to lessen their authority was, therefore, perfectly fruitless. The charges of erroneous statements which had been made against these and subsequent reports were all unfounded. That which had been advanced against the report of one of their lordships committees consisted in an evasion. It referred to a word which had been inserted in the report without a qualification. The word "correspondence" should have been "correspondence by messengers."Lord Redesdale
586585584583, when he saw so many tremendous bills on the table affecting the liberty of the subject, did not think it necessary to dwell much upon the transactions of 1794. He was not now disposed to consider in what manner the noble and learned lord on the woolsack had
586585584583Lord Holland
587, in explanation,
587The Lord Chancellor
588 said, he should not object to this bill, because it was one not for disarming the people, but for preventing them from using their arms against the constitution. He had been surprised to hear his noble friend accuse the noble and learned lord on the woolsack, of having misquoted the Bill of Rights, and of having said that there should be one law for the rich, and another for the poor—that the one had a right to keep arms in his possession, and that the other had no such right. He could not conceive on what grounds these charges were founded; for what the noble and learned lord had said was, that every man was entitled to have arms suitable to his protection; and that, the moment he rose in arms against the constitution, it was the duty of parliament to interpose, not, indeed, to prevent him from having arms, but to take care that he should not use them in overturning the constitution of the country. The noble lord had deprecated the interference of parliament by any new legislative enactments. But what had their lordships on the former evening been discussing? What was the question that had then been agitated? Was not the proposition of the noble marquis (Lansdowne) that they should go into an inquiry? And yet the noble lord now objected to these measures, because they would
588The Marquis of Buckingham
589, in explanation, denied that he had charged his noble and learned friend on the woolsack, with misquoting the Bill of Eights. All he intended to convey was, that he had frittered away a part of it in his version. The noble and learned lord had taken high dudgeon at this. As he had since explained himself, no doubt could be entertained with respect to the meaning of his words; but as they were first delivered, he (lord Holland) being something of an angler, thought he had a good bite [a laugh]. The noble marquis was guilty of an inaccuracy, when he supposed him to have
589Lord Holland
590 said, he rose in consequence of the speech of the noble marquis who had attacked that side of the House as if, in general, the principles of radical reform were adopted by them; and he wished that noble lords, when they spoke of any individuals, or, indeed, of any matter whatever should be correct in what they stated to the House. He did not agree in opinion with those who approved of all the measures that were brought forward; but he would take that opportunity of stating his acquiescence in the bills then under their lordships' consideration. He regretted to hear from the other side of the House opinions which implied the imputation, that noble lords on his side were inimical to the interests of the state; they felt they were contending for the interests of the country as much as the noble lords opposite; and while he differed very much from them in political sentiment, he should endeavour so to express his dissent as not to inflame the public mind. He should beg leave to advert to what had fallen from the learned lord;—for any subject connected with the Bill of Rights, with Magna Charta, or any other of the great barriers of the constitution, every one must feel to be important. The learned lord would allow him to say, with every respect for his character, and with great deference to his legal knowledge, that when he stated his opinion that certain proceedings were treasonable, he (his Royal Highness) should have wished that the learned lord had been in the situation of attorney-general when these proceedings occurred, because he was convinced that that opinion, if stated and acted upon by the attorney-general, would have relieved the country from a great part of the evil now said to exist. He would state to the noble marquis, that although he was not a radical reformer, he had an opinion on that subject; an opinion as distinct, and, he hoped, as constitutional, as that of the noble marquis himself; and whenever they should enter the lists of argument on the subject, he hoped they should fight fairly and manfully. He agreed with the noble lords opposite, that the House ought not to lose its time; but
590The Duke of Sussex
591 thought it his duty to give his support to some of the measures before the House. With respect to the arming bill, it was universally admitted that such a measure could be justified only on the ground of necessity. The only objection which he was prepared to make to this bill he should take the liberty of throwing out at present, for the consideration of the noble lord opposite. He thought it extremely dangerous to give to any man the power of entering another's house at night; and, if possible, it would be expedient to avoid giving that power. He would not waste their lordships' time in arguing on the inexpediency of this provision, or of the present measures in general; but he would take the liberty of inquiring, before he decided, whether the present measures, supposing them to be necessary now, might not have been avoided, if a different course had been adopted by government. He apprehended they all considered the measure to be grounded on the fact, that arms were possessed by individuals for dangerous purposes. From the papers on the table, however, he thought that this measure arose entirely from the transactions at Manchester on the fatal 16th of August. It was, no doubt, to be lamented, that itinerant demagogues were going about the country, and inflaming the minds of the people; but still it was known that meetings of the same description as that at Manchester had taken place in other parts of the country, and had separated without any bad consequences. He maintained, therefore, that whatever evil disposition there was in the situation of the country, it was mainly owing to the unfortunate conduct of the magistrates on that day, and to the subsequent conduct of ministers in stifling inquiry. If government had granted an inquiry, he was satisfied that the evils now to be provided against by these measures would not have existed.
591The Earl of Darnley
593592 expressed considerable diffidence in offering himself to the attention of their lordships, but he felt it a duty which he could not decline to address them for a few moments. He presented himself to their notice not merely as a person possessing some estate in the country, and respecting the laws and constitution under which he lived—not merely as a member of the legislature, in whose dignity and security he was interested—but as the holder of a situation under the Crown, which he had had the honour to fill ever since the year 1792. He had forborne to obtrude himself upon former occasions, but his name had been already introduced to their lordships' notice in the documents which were laid on the table by his majesty's ministers. It might be supposed, from his residence in the county of which he was about to speak, that he
593592The Earl of Darlington
594 rose also to make a statement to the House, which he thought it of importance that they should be acquainted with. He corroborated the statement of the noble lord who preceded him, on the subject of the meetings in the neighbourhood of Newcastle, which he described as inconsiderable in point of numbers at first. The last, however, was alarming, both in point of numbers, and with regard to the flags exhibited. The motto upon one of the flags was, "the day of retribution is at hand," and the device a death's head and bones. Though no mischief was done, he was convinced that they were ripe for mischief. He had certain information, that many persons attended the meeting with pistols, and had that day received a letter from a most respectable clergyman at Newcastle, which would show the extent to which the alarm had reached in that part of the country. The letter commenced by observing, that about twenty factious demagogues, who ought to be hanged or incarcerated, had done all the mischief, and succeeded in preparing the minds of the people for rebellion. It proceeded to state than an hon. and rev. gentleman, a magistrate of the county, the brother of a noble earl whom he did not then see in his place, had with his family taken refuge in that town. What must the state of
594The Earl of Strathmore
681certiorariinstanter680 left the woolsack, and moved the order of the day for the second reading of the bill, entitled "an act to prevent delay in the administration of justice in cases of misdemeanor." His lordship then proceeded to describe the enactments of the bill, which he observed, if found liable to objection, might be subject to discussion and amendment in the committee. The preamble stated, that great delays have occurred in the administration of justice in cases of persons prosecuted by indictment, or information in the court of King's bench, at Westminster, or by indictment at the sessions; by reason that the defendants have, according to the present practice, an opportunity of postponing their trials to a distant period, by means of imparlances in the court of King's-bench, and by time given to plead at the sessions. This preamble explained the ground of the delay which it was proposed to remedy. The object of the first provision in the bill was, to prevent the occurrence of delay in the court of King's-bench; and it was accordingly proposed to enact, that no person, prosecuted, either by information or by indictment found or removed into that court shall be permitted to imparle to the following term, but shall be required to plead or demur thereto within four days. He had experienced great difficulty in attempting to trace the origin of this practice of imparlance; but it appeared to have been thought that something like the delay granted in civil actions ought to be extended to defendants in the case of misdemeanor. His lordship was, however, of opinion, that there was no sufficient analogy in the cases. The delay granted in civil actions was founded on the ground, that the defendant ought to be afforded an opportunity of talking with his adversary, and settling the matter in dispute; and also that he might have time to ascertain what his defence ought to be. In a case of this kind, he had thought it right not to rely on his own opinion, but had sought, information from persons of experience in his profession, who had agreed, in the inconvenience of the present practice. As the case at present stood, a defendant had a right to three rules, and if the information should not be filed nine days before the close of the
681certiorariinstanter680The Lord Chancellor
682ex officio said, he would not occupy much of their lordship' time, as he did not mean to enter into the details of this bill. His view of the necessity of this and the other measures of severity was much altered since their lordships had come to the conclusion they had done the other night. He might still take the liberty of objecting to parts; but with respect to the question of adapting some such measures generally, their lordships had placed him in a very different situation from that in which he previously stood, and his opinion must be governed by his view of the state of the country under the circumstances of their lordships' decision. It appeared that they were determined to resort to no measures of conciliation, but to throw away the scabbard and depend upon the sword alone. It therefore followed, that their lordships must adopt this and other measures of severity, if they meant to preserve the peace of the country. The noble and learned lord had introduced this bill as a permanent measure, and not as one merely applicable to the present circumstances. Under these circumstances, he would have been happy to have seen provisions introduced in it to prevent delays on the part of the crown. A noble friend of his had on a former occasion pourtrayed in strong colours to their lordships, the evils arising from delay in prosecuting on 682ex officioEarl Grosvenor
dedimus said, he had just received intelligence that two of the most worthy magistrates in the county had been compelled to abandon their homes, through apprehension of the danger which threatened them. They were now actually residing with their families in the town of Newcastle. For his own part, he felt what was due to himself and the repose of that part of the country, and the moment he had heard of this transaction he had given orders to have his dedimusThe Earl of Strathmore
687ex officio686de novo.685, in rising to support the motion of his noble and learned friend, did not mean to go into those technical consideration which, on such a subject, must be necessarily referred to. He agreed in some respects with the noble and learned lord who had last addressed the house. Although not competent to enter upon a discussion of the legal part of this question, he felt disposed to make some general observations on its main
687ex officio686de novo.685The Earl of Liverpool
ex-officio692ex-officioex-officio691690689ex-officio688 declared that he felt some very decided objections to this proceeding. He did not consider himself competent, any more than the noble earl, to look at it in a technical point of view, but should endeavour to state the general nature of his reasons for opposing it. The noble earl had argued this question in a way not very respectful to his noble and learned friend. A great part of his speech was filled with reflexions on that ancient law by which the subjects of this country had hitherto been governed. The noble and learned lord on the woolsack had not uttered a single word on the necessity or intended operation of this measure. He had, therefore, as it appeared to him, received a severe rebuke from the noble earl who had last addressed the House. The wisdom of our ancestors, about which they had often beard so much rant, was at length represented as inadequate. Our boasted constitution was now, at least in some of its parts, described as absurd in theory, and in-
ex-officio692ex-officioex-officio691690689ex-officio688Lord Holland
Mente quatit solida."Non vultus instantis tyranni,Non civium ardor prava jubentium,"Justum et tenacem propositi virum began by making some remarks respecting the apprehensions which lord Holland seemed to entertain of giving too great an influence to the Crown, and those which the earl of Liverpool held with respect to the absolute predominance of the people. For his own part, he was equally jealous of the absolute authority of both:
Mente quatit solida."Non vultus instantis tyranni,Non civium ardor prava jubentium,"Justum et tenacem propositi virumLord Lilford
 wished to put a question to the noble lord, before he proceeded to make any comments on the information which, he had received. This bill, he understood, was intended to affect Ireland as well as this country. Now, they had been told, that all was quiet in Ireland, and therefore the extension of the bill to the people of that country could only tend to irritate them. The bill, in his opinion, had been rendered necessary, not by those persons whom he would call subjects, but by the conduct of those who were intrusted with the government of the country. He therefore begged to be informed by the noble lord, whether it was in contemplation to extend the provisions of the bill to Ireland. He might remark before he sat down, that formerly when a similar law was enforced in that country, the arms which had been taken away from the people were never restored? He trusted that would not be the case in the present instance.The Earl of Blessington
694 answered, that the bill applied only to certain counties in England which were expressly named. It certainly gave a power to the magistrates in any part of the united kingdom to extend its provisions, if necessary; but at present it was confined to certain counties in this country, and the noble lord would surely not say, that if it was necessary to apply it to other parts of the kingdom, the executive government should not have the power of so applying it. With regard to the amendment proposed, the noble lord had said, that by searching in the night-time great inconvenience might arise to individuals against whom information had been given of having arms in their possession. There was no doubt of this; but the safety of the state was paramount to any consider-
694Lord Sidmouth
 perfectly coincided in opinion with the earl of Darnley on this subject. He did conceive that a great deal depended on the manner in which this law was to be put in execution. When they could carry the law into effect, without offending the private feelings of individuals, or making an attack on public feeling, that course should be adopted. The noble lord had said, that if this provision were omitted, it would not, in some cases, be in the power of the officers to act on the information they had received for ten or twelve hours afterwards. But if they had the power of getting that information secretly, they might surely conceal the circumstance from the party informed against for a short time; and thus, by delaying the search till a seasonable hour, they might avoid giving that offence which the pre-sent provision must inevitably give. It was surely most offensive for a man to be disturbed in the first hours of his slumber; and, though he was anxious to avoid saying any thing that could inflame the public feeling, he must declare, that were he disturbed in such a manner, he should certainly be ready to inquire if such a proceeding was legal.The Duke of Sussex
695,in explanation; said, he should not state his authority for believing that it was in contemplation to extend this bill to Ireland, although he had good authority for entertaining such belief. In consequence, however, of the noble lord's answer, he should not insist on offering any remarks on the subject; he thought the alarm in this country was in a great measure unfounded, and he
695The Earl of Blessington
primâ facie asked, whether the clause which made the possession of arms of a particular description primâ facieThe Earl of Rosslyn
primâ facie said, that the clause expressly mentioned pike-heads or spears, as the description of weapon that should be considered primâ facieLord Sidmouth
 thought it hard, that the man who had in his possession pike-heads or spears without any design against the government, should have no protection against the breaking open of his house in the night.The Earl of Rosslyn
696 did not think that the noble lord was in earnest in bringing the bill before the House. The preamble of it proclaimed the existence of a widely spreading and dangerous conspiracy, in the truth of which he could not coincide. Application, according to the bill, was to be made to a magistrate for a warrant, when the applicant might state, that he believed that arms for an improper purpose were in the possession of another, without however stating any facts. The magistrate would not be at liberty to refuse. Thus some poor man, who with his family might have retired to rest after his labour (if indeed any man could venture to go to bed at all after the passing of this act), might become the much-injured victim of malevolence and oppression. The onus probandi was thrown on the poor man, who would be forced to answer a rule to show cause why the door of his dwelling should not be broken open in the middle of the night, and his family almost tortured, in order to gratify the malignity or the cruelty of any other person. But he might apply for the restitution of the weapons which should be seized from him: and he, like the ghost of Hamlet in
696Lord Erskine
primâ facie said, that the measure to which the attention of their lordships was then called, was not worse than one which had been enacted four years ago. That there were disturbances, could not but be evident to each of their lordships who had read the papers on the table. The noble lord denied the existence of a conspiracy; and yet who could doubt, after what had occurred at Burnley, where all the persons who composed that multitude, as it was admitted, were armed either with pikes, or with other weapons. For what object were the pikes and those other weapons, constructed and collected, if not for a traitorous purpose? There was a distinction, which could not but be evident from the bill; relative to the mode in which its operation was to take effect. Persons having weapons of the first description, were to be considered as if primâ facieThe Earl of Liverpool
 inquired if, in the first clause, there were any objection to insert "two magistrates'' instead of "a magistrate?" He did not wish to press this amendment, but at all events the word "cannon" had been emitted among the weapons, as it had been stated that a good many had been about lately.Lord Holland
 said that the word "gun" was to be found in the bill.Lord Sidmouth
 objected strongly to its insertion; admitting that, if an evil prevailed, it did not follow that this bill was a proper remedy; it might put an end even to some of the sports of the field; and though people in the country loved the constitution very well, they often loved the favour of an administration quite as dearly, and might give informations to answer any but useful purposes.Lord Holland
 objected both to the permanency and generality of the; measure; at least, he said it would be fit to exempt from its operation school-masters who might employ Serjeants to drill boys under their tuition.Lord Holland
 replied, that he could not see how it was possible to frame the bill otherwise than as it now stood, if it was to be made effectual for its purposes. The bill prohibited all drilling, but it authorized lords-lieutenant to grant licences for drilling. This power he had no objection to have extended to other magistrates. It was not, therefore, to be apprehended that any of the inconveniences alluded to by the noble lord could arise from the bill as now constructed.The Earl of Liverpool
698 requested the attention of their lordships for a few moments. He was anxious that the bills which were now passing should be carried into execution with all possible speed, and with the desired effect. He understood that the statement he had last night made of the numbers who associated in a part of the country with which he was connected, had just been called in question, and denied in another place. He could assure their lordships that that part of the country was much disturbed. What he had said last night of the numbers of
698The Earl of Strathmore
 said, he had had no intention of obtruding himself upon the attention of their lordships; but having been so pointedly called upon, he could assure their lordships' that the statement of the noble earl was not only strictly correct, but rather short of the real fact. By a return which had been made to him, upon the accuracy of which he could rely, the number associated in the several collieries amounted to 16,600 persons. He understood that all these had arms. He had since understood, and they had themselves said, that in the district between the Tyne and the Weir, and extending to Carlisle, there were 100,000 men with arms, ready to rise and unite together.The Duke of Northumberland
 said, he had that morning received a letter from Newcastle, which enabled him most fully to corroborate, as from the latest accounts, the statements which had been made by both the noble duke and earl.Lord Redesdale
684683 rose, and opposed the motion. His noble and learned friend, he said, had intimated his inability to trace the origin of the right of imparlance. For his own part, he could look for it no where else than in the ancient law of the country, and this proposition of his noble and learned friend he regarded as a complete alteration of the law. Had any disadvantage arisen from the practice, it would surely have been felt in the lapse of time, and have been rescinded before now. In the time of chief justice Hale the question had been agitated, and there was then no diversity of opinion. That learned judge held that the traverser of an indictment was entitled to the postponement of his trial to the next term. But to show that this right had been recognised by the legislature at a very recent period, his lordship referred to an act of parliament passed some years ago, in which persons indicted for misdemeanor were allowed to traverse to the following sessions. This act was passed in their own time; and, though difference of opinion might arise in the course of years, he had expected that his noble and learned friend would have explained more fully the nature of the new lights which had operated on his mind on this subject. What had occurred the course of fourteen years to render this change in the practice of the law necessary? When he read in the preamble of the bill, that "great delays had occurred the administration of justice," he must say, that these delays were given to afford time for the defence. The defendant was justly entitled to them—entitled to them by law. The noble and learned lord stated, that he had consulted persons in the profession of the law acquainted with the practice. He wished his noble friend had stated what was said by the different persons he consulted. His noble and learned friend had stated, that exceptions might be made to the operation of the bill; but whatever exceptions his noble and learned friend might be willing to admit, were so many objections to the principle of the measure. This bill, their lordships were informed, had not originated in the circumstances which had given rise to the other measures before the House; but he must confess that when he saw the table covered with
684683Lord Erskine
 rose to move the second reading of the bill for the more effectual prevention and punishment of blasphemous and seditious libels. He observed, that the title of the bill sufficiently expressed its object, and their lordships, he was confident, could not entertain a doubt of the propriety of checking, as far as possible, libels of the description against which the provisions of the bill were directed. The object of the bill was proposed to be accomplished merely by giving to the court the power of increasing the severity of the punishment which was now applied in cases of conviction for libel on a repetition of the offence. It was not proposed that any additional punishment should attach in the first instance to a conviction for libel, but that a defendant should, on conviction for a second libel, be liable, according to the judgment of the court, to the punishment of banishment or transportation. Having, on a former occasion, fully stated the nature of this bill, and the other measures connected with it, he should not trouble their, lordships with any farther details at present; but should be ready in the course of the debate, to give any explanation which might appear necessary. He would only say, that whatever measures their lordships in their wisdom might think fit to adopt in the present situation of the country, they would all prove ineffectual unless means were found to check the licentiousness of the press. That licentiousness was the great source of the evil with which they had to contend, and if, after adopting the other measures, they did not agree to this, the remedy would be incomplete. The objects of the other measures, important us they were, could not be attained without this; for if it were not adopted, their lord-ships would still have in all its strength, that destructive virus, the pernicious effects of which, if allowed to operate, were certain and irremediable. He concluded by moving, that the bill be now read, a second time.Lord Sidmouth
 said, that during the discussion of the bill, he had more than once expressed his dissent from the clause which authorised the searching for arms "by night.'' He had admitted, that in the present state of the country, some measures of security were necessary, but he must still protest against the clause, and he alluded was so well understood by their lordships, that when the clause to which he alluded was read, his amendment, that it should be expunged would have been discussed. It was with surprise he now heard all the proposed alterations gone through but still the clause to which he alluded remained part of the bill. He would not undertake to say, that the, clause had been read distinctly, but it certainly was not read with an audible voice; At least he did not hear it. He should therefore now press his previously intended amendment, that the clause authorising search for arms by night be omitted.The Earl of Darnley
754 said, that the noble lord was mistaken as to the manner in which the bill had been read. It had been done in an audible voice, and seemed to have been perfectly understood by their lord-
754Lord Sidmouth
 said, that as far as he could judge, the clause to which the noble lord alluded, had been read in an audible voice. His lordship, however, had still the opportunity left him that was suggested by the noble secretary of state, of moving his amendment upon another occasion.The Lord Chancellor
717716715714713 wished to offer a few observations, with regard to that state of vicious abuse of the liberty
717716715714713The Marquis of Lansdowne
718 said, that when he considered that the present bill was intended to annex a new and higher quantity of punishment to the offences against which it was directed, he should be disposed to join in the apprehensions expressed by the noble marquis, as to the difficulty of obtaining a verdict in the second case, if the blasphemous and libellous publications alluded to had extended more generally than he believed they did. But the offences, it should be considered, were those of seditious and blasphemous libels—seditious libels intended to overthrow the constitution, and blasphemous libels to subvert the religion of the country. He still trusted that the efforts of the press, industrious as they were, had not succeeded to that extent which was sufficient to alienate the minds of jurymen from the religion in which they were educated, and from that respect for the laws which it was their duty to maintain. Seditious libels were not the offspring of party views, nor connected with party politics: they were attempts to overturn the constitution, by extinguishing those feelings of attachment towards it, which he hoped still prevailed among his majesty's subjects. The noble marquis had objected that the punishment was new. It was upon that very ground that he (lord Ellenborough) supported it; for believing as he did, that the object of the persons concerned in those publications was base lucre, and their chief agent a vile malignity, he could not help thinking that some new quality of punishment was necessary to meet and suppress their efforts. He was further confirmed in this opinion, from observing that the prosecution and conviction of libellers under the existing law produced frequently the effect which the libeller himself had chiefly in view—that of extending the sale of his work, and thereby putting lucre in. his pocket. He was sure when they considered what the author of a blasphemous libel attempted; that he attempted, as had been eloquently expressed by a noble lord who had pre-
718Lord Ellenborough
726725724723malus animus. prima facie722721720719 said, that of all the hideous codes which had ever come under his observation, he must confess, he had never witnessed one more obnoxious than that which was then under the considers-
726725724723malus animus. prima facie722721720719Lord Holland
729728727 said, that he conceived the measures upon which his noble friend who had just sat down had commented with so much severity, essentially necessary to the preservation of the free constitution of this country; and after the manner in which that noble lord had thought proper to speak of them, it was impossible for him to remain silent. The noble lord had spoken that night in a manner calculated to disgrace the judges of this country. But he would ask the, noble lord if he was acquainted with the whole law of libel? At this very moment the punishment of libellers was at the discretion of the judges, and it was at their option to fine, to imprison, or both. There had been, however, a vast change in the Jaw on this subject within a few years past. When he had the honour of holding the office of attorney general, he was effectually opposed in his prosecutions by the noble and learned lord who had addressed them early that night (lord Erskine)—an opposition which he could not help thinking added weight in the cases in which he was himself subsequently
729728727The Lord Chancellor
744743742║741740739 said, that the noble earl who had just sat down had taken a view of this question which, if he could make it good, would cause this, and most of the other measures that had been proposed for their lordships consideration, to fall at once to the ground. The noble earl seemed to think, not only that the apprehensions entertained on that side of the House (indeed, he might say, on both sides of the House, with little exception) were unfounded, but he likewise appeared to consider that the special and particular danger which this bill was intended to provide against, might either be effectually met by the existing law, or might be looked on as an evil of which they need not entertain any serious apprehension. However different the opinions of the noble earl might be with respect to the present situation of the country from those held by the great majority of parliament and of the nation, he could venture to affirm, as far as his observation went, that there was no point on which his (the noble earl's) sentiments were so much at variance with public opinion, as on that which referred to blasphemous publications. He could safely assert, that amongst no rank of society, either the higher, the middle, or that part of the lower class who reflected on the subject— amongst no persons of any religious sect or persuasion, had he found a difference of opinion as to the danger of such publications, and the necessity and propriety of arresting those principles and putting down such works, if it were possible. The noble earl and other noble lords said, that he did not apprehend any danger from the dissemination of those blasphemous publications, because the people of England were a religious and a moral people. He was ready to admit that they were a religious people; but the question was, how long the lower orders would continue so, if those publications were allowed to go on? He and the noble earl saw this whole question through a very different medium; for, when he contemplated the whole subject of libel, under existing circumstances, and compared it with the state of libel at any former period in this country, he felt justified in saying, that such an evil never existed before. He admitted that, in all parts of their history, instances might be found of scandalous
744743742║741740739The Earl of Liverpool
746745 said, that the whole system of measures now proposed to parliament, appeared to him uncalled for and unjustifiable in the present state of their lordships information. The ministers of the Crown, had told the Houses that distress was the cause of the present danger, and that they expected that that distress would be merely temporary; but they were to meet that temporary danger and distress, by permanent restrictions upon liberty. His objection to them was, that the ministers of the Crown did not
746745The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, that before minister visited seditious libels with such severity, they should define what seditious libels were. A noble lord had said, that any person who gave an opinion against the conduct of ministers, lent his weight to the disaffected. A peer of parliament, according to this doctrine, in discharging his duty, and fairly stating his, sentiments, might, by the present bill render himself liable to transportation. Until, therefore, he heard that it was not intended to be a permanent measure, it must have his decided opposition; and, until he heard from the noble secretary of state proposition's for conciliating the people as well as coercing them, he must oppose all the measures that had been recommended by government. Anxious as he was to see the Prince Regent enthroned, as he deserved to be, in the. hearts of the subject, he must again and again vote for an inquiry into the state of the country; in the hope, that at last, parliament would show the country, not only that they would protect the just rights of his majesty's peaceable subjects, but that by soothing 'measures (which alone ought in his opinion, to be adopted) they would silence the general expression of discontent.The Earl of Blessington
753752 was unwilling to trespass upon the attention of their lordships, but he felt it necessary to say a few words in answer to the ingenious arguments used by the noble earl who had just sat down. He had often given that noble earl his due tribute of praise and admiration for the great abilities which he had displayed on various occasions, but he had lived long enough to know, that there was no argument like matter of fact. The noble earl had stated that his brother had left his abode through a false alarm, but that he had again returned to it. He could assure their lordships that there was more cause for such a removal at present in that part of the country, than at any previous period. He had that morning received letters from two magistrates of the county of
753752The Earl of Strathmore
 had been informed by those who were convinced of the fact, that there were 100,000 men ready to act between New-castle and Carlisle, and that arms to a considerable extent had been purchased by different individuals.The Duke of Northumberland
in toto.747 begged to be allowed to make a few observations, in consequence of what had fallen from a noble earl on the subject of the education of the lower orders of society. He was quite sure that the noble earl did not mean any personal imputation. But being so much concerned as he was with others, in the superintendence of the education of the poor, he felt himself called upon to defend the system of schools which had been assailed—namely, the Lancasterian system. It was a system founded on the strictest principle of religion and morality. He could vouch for one particular fact, namely, that although children of different sects were admitted into the Lancasterian schools, every Monday morning they were examined to ascertain whether or not they had been to some place of worship or other; and when it was found that that had been neglected three times, the child was dis-
in toto.747The Duke of Sussex
751750 rose to express his sentiments upon the bill. He objected to it not only as it stood part of an obnoxious system, but as being in itself uncalled for and dangerous. It conferred upon the magistrate a power of breaking open houses by night or by day—a power which was liable to great abuse, and which might be dangerous in the execution of the means employed to carry it into effect, while it would be perfectly inefficient for the" purpose for which it was intended. He objected to it likewise in principle. It was a principle of the law of England, asserted and declared in the Bill of Rights, that every man was entitled to the possession of his arms, not only for defence against the assassin or the midnight robber, but to enforce his constitutional right of resistance to oppression, if deprived of the benefit of the laws. He was anxious to express this constitutional view, as that right had been asserted and recognized at the period of the Revolution, and had been too much lost sight of since. He could not, therefore, surrender it, without the most urgent necessity; and he saw no grounds of necessity established. It had, indeed, been said, that arms had been provided for the purposes of insurrection and rebellion; but the papers on the table, which contained the only information on which He could proceed, stated nothing precise or satisfactory on the subject. Where any thing specific was stated, he found that it related to a few pikes, which had been fabricated at the desire of the persons who gave the information. On such a ground he could not surrender an essential right of Englishmen. But the scanty statements contained in the papers had been attempted to be completed by the accounts that were heard in the House. Arms, to an extraordinary ex-tent, were said to be made and distributed in the part of the country with which he was connected; and a near and dear relative of his, it was added, had been obliged to leave his home from the fear of an armed insurrection, and to retire with his family to Newcastle, as a place of safety. That his relative had left his home he could not deny {whether from a misconceived alarm, would best appear from what he had to state. His relative had since written him a letter in which he said that the alarm was false; that the reports of the state of the country were exaggerated; but that he did
751750Earl Grey
738737736735734733732731730 said, he would not stop to inquire whether the prosecution, which he thought had been most injudiciously directed against Mr. Hone, might or might not have been better conducted.
738737736735734733732731730Earl Grey
 said, in explanation, that there was no man who had a greater, objection to the radicals than he had, but yet he must have regular proof before, he could believe that there was any dangerous plan afloat to subvert the constitution of the country.Earl Grey
712711 said, he had listened with much attention to the noble and learned lord who had just sat down, because he knew him to possess
712711The Earl of Harrowby
all government.710blasphemousthen709708707 said, that public necessity, from the state of the country, had been assumed as the justification of this bill as it
all government.710blasphemousthen709708707Lord Erskine
 did not rise to offer any opposition to the principle of the bill in this stage. He was disposed to allow that a temporary necessity for such a law might exist, though at the same time he thought that necessity had been, in a great measure, occasioned by the improper manner in which the existing laws had been administered but though he might admit the necessity of some enactment of this kind, it did not follow that be should approve of all the powers proposed to be given to the magistrates. What he chiefly objected to, was the power given to search houses by night. Besides, he did not see any advantage that could be derived from retaining that clause, as, after what had passed, it was not to be supposed that persons having arms in their possession, for an improper purpose, would keep them in their houses. On the contrary, it was to be presumed, that they would conceal them somewhere else. The noble lord then alluded to two local acts formerly passed, authorizing the seizing of arms, and particularly to one in, the reign of William 3rd, which required the warrant of two justices to authorize the seizing of arms in the daytime. This example, he thought, ought to have been followed in the present bill; and be felt it his duty to protest against the power of entering and searching houses in the night time.The Earl of Darnley
 observed, that if the measure were really more severe than the circumstances of the country, required, he would willingly consent to any proposition for softening it; but such was far from being the case. He did not set much importance on a precedent either of a remote or recent date, as the necessity of the present measure must be judged from the circumstances which gave rise to it. He could not agree to any alteration in the clause.Lord Sidmouth
 reported the bill, intitled "An act to prevent delay in the administration of justice in cases of misdemeanor."The Earl of Shaftesbury
 proposed several verbal amendments, which were made on the report being brought up. One related to the granting of copies of indictments to defendants. In certain cases defendants were already allowed copies before appearance; he therefore proposed to insert the word, "after," in order that they might be granted after appearance.The Lord Chancellor
 did not rise to oppose any of the alterations suggested. He was glad to find that the noble and learned lord was so readily disposed to amend the bill. He now rose to move an amendment to the effect, that in cases of information ex-officio, filed by the attorney-general, if the defendants were not brought to trial within eighteen months, such information: should cease to be of any effect, unless there should be an order issued by the court for further delay. He moved this as a clause in the present bill, because he thought it of importance that in a bill, the object of which was to hasten trials for misdemeanor, by taking away the privilege enjoyed by defendants of traversing a disposition should also be shown to prevent delays through the conduct of the prosecutor, particularly in the case of ex-officio informations, which might be kept interminably hanging over the heads of individuals to the destruction of their peace of mind, and perhaps of their property, without any means, at present existing, of compelling the attorney general to proceed with them.Lord Holland
958 admitted the importance of the considerations urged by the noble lord. It was, he believed, true, that there were no means of forcing the attorney-general on to trial. In other cases, the defendants might carry down, the record by proviso, but where the attorney-general was prosecutor, the defendant could not carry down the record without a warrant from that officer; He admitted it was of importance to consider whether any means could be adopted of shielding a defendant, under such circumstances, from the effects of unnecessary delay; but he thought that to do it effectually, and with a due regard to all the
958The Lord Chancellor
 was glad to hear what had, fallen from the noble and learned lord. The subject, however, was not new to the House. Five or six years ago he had called the attention of their lordships to it; and two years ago, it had again been brought under the consideration of parliament. His mind was made up on the subject; but if the noble and learned lord would himself introduce a bill to remedy the evil, in case it should not be convenient for him to consider the matter fully before the third reading, he would not press the clause. As the noble and learned lord was of opinion, that to make some alteration in the present practice was a subject worthy the attention of the legislature, he hoped that either by a clause on the third reading, or by the introduction of a new bill, the necessary amendment would be made. Perhaps, by the time the bill was read a third time, the' noble and learned lord would be able to come prepared for the consideration of the subject.Lord Holland
959 observed, that the measures which the noble lord had alluded
959The Lord Chancellor
960 expressed a hope that the noble lords opposite would agree to postpone the third reading of the bill till Monday. Their lordships would not, he trusted, allow the inconvenience arising from a short delay to stand in the way of justice. It was of great importance, when, upon grounds some of which he would admit were strong, it was proposed to deprive the subject of valuable privileges, that their lordships should endeavour to redress any grievance which might be discovered in the administration of the law. The noble and learned lord had on this, as on other occasions, evinced his readiness to consider any proposition of that description. It had, with respect to this bill, erroneously gone forth, that the noble and learned lord had laid down the law in the case of the Seven Bishops as the foundation of the measure; whereas he had done no such thing, but in adverting to that case, had observed, that the defendants had a right to imparle, and were hardly dealt with when that right was refused. If it appeared that the subject suffered injury by the delay of prosecutions at the suit of the Crown, that injury could only be removed by obliging the attorney-general to bring on the trial within a limited period. It was but justice to furnish the subject with some facilities in return for the privileges which were taken away; and a provision, which would prevent prosecutions from hanging interminably over the head of defendants, was one to which their lordships' attention should be seriously applied. If, by delaying the third reading of this bill far two or three days, the noble and learned lord should have time to make up his mind on
960The Marquis of Lansdowne
 said, that if his noble and learned friend could be prepared to propose a clause by Monday or Tuesday, he would have no difficulty in postponing the third reading.The Earl of Liverpool
 expressed his willingness to give the subject every consideration in his power, but still thought it would be better to make it the subject of a separate bill.The Lord Chancellor
964onus probandionus probandi963962961 objected to the bill generally, but thought it right to propose some amendments, with the view of confining its operation to that offence, the prevention of which those who supported the measure professed to have in view. The alterations which he had in view, would apply chiefly to the fixing what was to be understood by seditious libel. As to blasphemous libel, its nature was well understood; and with regard to it, nothing, he thought, had occurred to justify any alteration in the law. The number of publications of that description had been greatly exaggerated; but if they had been as numerous as they were described to be, exceeding every thing known in former times, their lordships ought to recollect, that, in like manner, there had been an increase of publications of every description. It was not, then, the number of blasphemous libels which their lordships ought to to take into consideration, but their proportion to other publications. At the same time, whatever the number was, it had not been shown to their lordships, that the existing law had been enforced against them. As the definition of blasphemy was well known, he should not offer any amendment in reference to it. With regard to sedition, it had been declared by the supporters of the bill, that it was their wish to confine it merely to seditious libels. Now, what a seditious libel was, had never been settled. He conceived that those who said they wished to confine the ope-
964onus probandionus probandi963962961Lord Holland
971970 proposed an amendment inserting the words. "knowingly and maliciously," before the words, "composing, printing, or publishing any blasphemous or seditious libel;" which was negatived without a division. He then, adverting to the definition of a Seditious libel proposed to be inserted in the bill as an amendment of lord Ellenborough immediately after the first time it is mentioned in the first enacting clause, said, he had no objection to the definition, provided the word "and" was used instead of "or," before the words "excite to any alteration," &c. The first part of the definition was of a very different character from the latter. To publish "any thing tending to bring into contempt either House of Parliament, was very different from that of exciting to unlawful resistance or violence. If he said, that a sedition prevailed in France, or any other country, it would be immediately understood that he referred to some acts of violence, and not to any attempt to bring the government into hatred and contempt. The same distinction was to be drawn between
971970Lord Holland
 said, he had no objection to the definition, if the words "seditious libel" were so vague and general as to requite any definition. It could never be said, that any thing written against the ministers individually, or against the administration, could be construed into a seditious libel. He was anxious that the public mind should be instructed on this subject. A libel on himself, or on any of his noble friends around him in the administration, was merely a personal libel, and had no reference to sedition. The noble lord had proposed a definition to limit the meaning of the term, of which he approved. There could be no doubt, that if a book was published containing any thing tending to bring into hatred or contempt either House of Parliament, it would be a seditious libel. The only question, therefore, was, not whether the definition included too much, but whether it included all. He was at first willing that the expression "seditious libel" should stand without any definition, because this bill enacted no new law of libel, but merely an additional punishment for suppressing it. The question before them was, whether, if any person was guilty of a seditious libel, the court was to be limited to the old penalties of fine and imprisonment, but should be enabled to superadd that of banishment or transportation. The use of the amendment was to remove that part of the objection against the bill which rested upon the indefinite nature of the offence which it punished.The Earl of Liverpool
972 objected to the definition. Many things might be mentioned tending to bring into hatred and contempt either House of Parliament without being a seditious libel. It might be said, for instance, that the House of Commons was obliged to proceed through
972The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, that when he supported the amendment of the noble lord, he did it on the idea that this severity of punishment was only to be applied to an aggravated offence. He had no idea that the present bill swept into itself all the opinions of lawyers, all the contradictory decisions of juries, and in fact, all the inconsistencies of libel-law; but he thought it was to be applied only to publications inciting the people to violence or resistance; and with that view he supported the latter part of the amendment. If every offence of libel, whether malignant or not, was to be included, he had been arguing in vain, and the time spent in debate had been lost.Lord Holland
 said, that his amendment was intended to include libels of superior malignity; but he saw he could not give a definition which should include any direct incitement to violence, without omitting what might be equally dangerous; for a libeller might exhort to peace and obedience in various parts of his book, while the tendency was, to bring into hatred and contempt the government and constitution of the country.Lord Ellenborough
973 said, that general words must be used; otherwise every thing could not be included which ought to be included. If they specified what was to be a seditious libel and left out the first part of the definition, it might then be said, that every thing that was before a libel was now a libel, save and except what tended to bring into hatred and contempt either House of Parliament. Adverting to what lord Holland had said about the duke of Richmond, he said, he would tell what was the opinion of an eminent judge concerning him during the state trials in 1794. He remembered when his noble and learned friend (lord Erskine) had done himself so much credit on that occasion, and had become so great a favourite, that the horses were taken from his noble and learned friend's carriage, and he was drawn home in triumph—without, however, he believed, ever seeing his horses again [A laugh]. On that occasion, when the work of the duke of Richmond was offered in evidence,
973The Lord Chancellor
 said, it appeared then, that this severe and disgraceful punishment was intended for, or would affect, such men as the duke of Richmond and Mr. Burke, the latter of whom had certainly uttered what would be called in the present day, a seditious libel, when he said, in introducing his plan of economical reform that "kings are naturally fond of low company." He would ask whether these words had not a direct tendency to bring into hatred and contempt the person of his majesty. But these were not the only expressions in his works which might be construed into seditious libel. He could find them in almost every page.Lord Holland
 said, he would have been at first satisfied with the Words "seditious libel," as they originally stood in the bill, but as it might go abroad and influence the mind of juries to believe that certain things which were seditious libels were not so, if this amendment were rejected, he would persist in supporting that amendment.The Earl of Liverpool
, after some verbal amendments, objected to the penalty of banishment, as inconsistent with the laws of England. The earl of Carnarvon moved as an amendment, to limit the period of banishment to any time not exceeding seven years at the discretion of the judge. This amendment was negatived.Lord Holland
977976, in the absence of a noble earl (Grey), had to state, that a letter had been received from the north of England, from the hon. and rev. brother of that noble earl, in answer to some statements which he had himself felt it his duty to make upon a former occasion. The letter stated, that
977976The Earl of Strathmore
 could not conceive how a man could write a blasphemous or Seditious libel ignorantly, or publish one accidentally: but he rose chiefly to state what had occurred to him as a definition of a seditious libel. It was, he would suggest, one calculated to bring his majesty's person, or the government and constitution, or either House of Parliament, into hatred or contempt, or calculated to excite his majesty's subjects to attempt any alteration of any matter in church or state as by law established, otherwise than by lawful means.Lord Ellenborough
 observed across the table, that he had no objection to this amendment, with the addition of the words—"or the person of the Prince Regent.The Earl of Liverpool
966965 rose to express his objection to the amendments of the noble baron. The first amendment attempted to define a seditious libel. The noble baron, however, had at the same time complained, that it could not be accurately defined, and that it was unjust to affix a severe penalty to an undefinable offence. He had maintained, that the offence might be so slight as to require only a slight punishment, and that an heinous punishment ought only to be awarded to a heinous crime. Now, this was precisely the course taken by the law as it now stood: the bill supposed different degrees of guilt, and left it to the discretion of the court to apportion the punishment accordingly, either fine separately, or imprisonment separately, or the two together; or, in case of second conviction, fine and imprisonment, or banishment, or transportation. If, therefore, the words of the clause should stand exactly as they did at present, no injurious consequences, would follow. It was obvious, too, that in cases which the law called seditious, where there was any room for a reasonable doubt, juries
966965The Earl of Harrowby
969 contended that the existing law had been found inefficient, as there were instances of repetitions of the same offence after repeated convictions, which could not have happened had the punishment been severe enough to excite sufficient alarm in the mind of the offenders. The noble and learned lord's observations might be arranged under two heads, namely—those that related to blasphemous publications, and those that had a reference to seditious libels. The noble and learned lord objected to the punishment of transportation as applied to the authors or publishers of the former, not on account of its severity, but because the persons so convicted, if sent to the colony of New South Wales, might there commence their blasphemous trade, and corrupt the community into which they were sent. The noble and learned lord added, that robbers and thieves had not the same facilities of repeating the crimes for which they were transported. Now, in his opinion, there was little cause for this apprehension, as publications either of a blasphemous or seditious description were the least likely of all offences that could be committed at Botany Bay. The noble and learned lord had said, that imprisonment for life, which might be awarded by the existing laws, was a more severe punishment than transportation for seven years, and, therefore, that there was no
969Earl Bathurst
968967, though he felt the utmost abhorrence at the disgusting blasphemies circulated among the lower classes, did not think any additional punishment necessary for their suppression. It was true, that transportation, properly applied, was a useful punishment: impurities, which if suffered to remain, might lead to contagion arid death, should be put forth; so should persons dangerously injurious to the country; but was it right to send them forth to a new colony, to poison the hearts and understandings of an infant state? Besides, as far as the offenders themselves were concerned, a greater punishment might be inflicted under the existing law; he might be imprisoned for each fresh offence, and cut off from the
968967Lord Erskine
979nil978nil! rose to move the amendment, of which he had given notice. The principle of the bill had been already so fully discussed, that nothing which might be said by him on that subject was likely to alter their lordships' determination. He must, however, observe, that this bill was how arrived at its last stage, without its being known whether the ground on which it was recommended to their lordships adoption was well founded or not. It had not been ascertained in what degree the laws were deficient in the power to punish blasphemous and seditious libels or whether they were deficient at all. On that point, the most important for their lordships consideration, they had heard nothing which bore out the assertions of the sup-porters of the bill. Blasphemous and seditious libels had been allowed to circulate to a great extent within these two or three years; but it was with astonishment he heard the necessity of passing new laws asserted, on the ground of the insufficiency of those which now existed to check such publications. In order to see what foundation there was for this assertion, their lordships had only to look at the return on the table of the number of prosecutions. By that paper it appeared, that the whole of the prosecutions by information, of blasphemous and seditious libels, during the year 1818, amounted to 979nil978nil!The Earl of Carnarvon
981980 could not admit that this bill was a violation of the constitution for a temporary purpose. The noble earl had stated, that he and his friends had been ready to co-operate in temporary measures of restriction. He certainly did not understand that to be the base; but if it had, such co-operation could not have been accepted by his majesty's ministers with respect to the present bill. Was the danger to be guarded against one of a local description, or one the legislation against which ought to be temporary? That danger was the circulation of blasphemous and seditious libels; and it was their lordships duty to mark their opinion of the importance of putting down such crimes by passing permanent laws for that purpose. In estimating the nature of this bill, their lordships should consider what the law on the subject of libel had been previously to the act which an hon. and learned gentleman introduced in another place. The punishment for libel was then fine, imprisonment, or the pillory, or all three. It was hot, however, proposed by the present bill to make the punishment in the first instance so Severe. Only fine and imprisonment attached to a first libel; on a second conviction, banishment and transportation were added. He would ask their lordships, whether, considering the great increase of the crime of libel, these could be regarded as too heavy punishments? Whether the framers of the bill had shown a disposition to push the law to a severity beyond what the exigency of the case required? But the noble earl had referred to the papers on the table; and it was unquestionably true, that no prosecutions had been instituted during the year 1818 for blasphemous and seditious libels. But their lordships could not doubt that the attorney and solicitor-general had reasons to assign for this forbearance. Whether their reasons would appear satisfactory to the noble lords opposite, he could not pretend to say. He could, however, assure their lordships, that the subject had been fully considered by two of the most able men in the profession of the law; and the course which had been
981980Lord Sidmouth
 thought, that before this bill passed, ministers ought to show that the present law was inadequate to the object in view, and what prosecution for a right object, and rightly conducted, had failed. The noble viscount had alluded to the proceedings against Mr. Hone, as a reason why the officers of the crown were unwilling to prosecute. But what had been the effect of that prosecution? Why, according to the noble viscount's admission, it was followed by a decrease in the number of, libels published, being the consequence of a decrease in the disposition to buy. Now; if such an. alteration had taken place after the trial of Mr. Hone, it was rather odd to make his acquittal a ground for the present measure? But who had been acquitted in the year 1819 for blasphemous libel, that the noble viscount thought it necessary to propose this measure? The argument, that Mr. Hone's acquittal had caused an increase of libellous publications, was now swept away. If their lordships looked at the papers on the table, they would find that no steps had been taken, towards enforcing the law in the present year, until July. It seemed as if prosecutions had been abstained from purposely—as if it had been expected that an increase of the crime would take place, to justify the imposing of heavy and extraordinary penalties unknown to the constitution.The Earl of Rosslyn
983why982 said, that when he formerly spoke against the bill before the House, he had not then seen the papers now upon the table, which greatly increased his objection to it. He did not
983why982Lord Erskine
984 thought his noble and learned friend who had just sat down had completely mistaken the question. What their lordships had to consider was, not whether the present law of libel was sufficient with regard to a first offence, or whether the government ought to have instituted more prosecutions; but whether it was proper now to pass a law for inflicting a severer punishment on persons convicted a second time of the same offence. What had given occasion to the introduction of the present measure was, as he understood, the case of Carlile. That person had not only continued the sale of the libel for which he was prosecuted, after conviction, but had published other libels, and had also published the same libel for which he was tried in another form, before sentence was passed upon him. No person who considered the circumstances of that case could avoid seeing that the law was not strong enough to prevent the repetition of the offence. The question therefore was, whether their lordships would enable the judges to inflict an additional punishment in such a case—whether they
984The Duke of Wellington
 said, that as the bill had gone through all its stages, and as their lordships had already agreed to the increase of punishment, that increase could not be brought again into discussion. If the measure were now under discussion, he should be prepared to contend, that the alteration of the punishment by the present bill did not render it more severe than it was when pillory was in use. This, however, was not now the question. The question was, whether the bill enacting this increased punishment was to be a permanent or temporary measure. He had no hesitation in saying that he thought it ought to be permanent, as he could not conceive a time in which he or their lordships would be disposed to consider the blasphemous and seditious libels described in the bill too severely punished by the penalties awarded. Some noble lords had represented this measure as dangerous to the liberties of the people, and an inroad on the constitution. He was of opinion, that it would tend to preserve their liberties and constitution; and as it was desirable that these blessings should be perpetual, so he thought that this measure should be perpetuated as their support and protection.The Earl of Westmoreland
987 said, that as the bill had not yet passed, it became their lordships to consider now, whether it ought to be made temporary or permanent. He besought their lordships to reflect on the danger of the measure to public liberty. He could not believe, from the temper displayed by his majesty's ministers, that they would accede to the proposition, now made; but he called upon those noble lords who had not become the slaves of administration, who had not so much prostrated their understandings to the views of government, as not sometimes; to decide for themselves, and to support measures proposed by his side of the House—he called upon the noble lords on the cross-benches, to consider the inroad which this act would make; on the constitution, and therefore not to sanction its perpetuity. He knew it might be said, that the law, if found unnecessary or injurious, might be repealed; but it was difficult to get a law repealed on which the courts had been acting as permanent. Under a tyrannical law, the public mind might acquirers death-like torpor, which might render it insensible to the despotism under which it laboured, and thus learn to make no difference between the thick atmosphere of oppression, and the free air of liberty. The noble earl said; that he should have wished to have entered more at large into the subject of the new measures, had he not been prevented by indisposition. He then proceeded, but evidently labouring under the indisposition to which he alluded, to state grounds for believing that the alarms in the northern counties, and particularly in that part of the country with which he was connected, were false, or much exaggerated. The disturbances among the miners and colliers of Flintshire had no political object: they were merely disputes about wages, which had been since adjusted. He had alluded to these circumstances, because he was confident that in many other instances where disturbances prevailed, they arose from causes connected with the state of trade or the rate of wages, and did not indicate any disposition of resistance or rebellion against the government. Reverting to the bill before the House, the noble earl observed, that it would have been a great satisfaction to his mind if an instruction had been given to the committee to divide it into two, and to separate that part of it which related to blasphemy
987Earl Grosvenor
988 said, that in the few observations which he had to make, he would confine himself to that part of the bill which related to the suppression of blasphemous libels. He did not understand the noble duke as supporting the necessity of the present bill only on the difficulty of punishing or checking an offence in one particular instance. The offence of blasphemy was one of long standing. It had, during the last century, appeared under different shapes of infidelity and irreligion, but it had lately assumed an entirely new aspect. It was formerly limited to books of infidelity and free-thinking, which fell into the hands only of persons of education, who could resist their influence or refute their errors. In the present times, blasphemous and infidel productions were brought down to the level of the meanest capacity—learning and argument and rea-
988The Bishop of Landaff
noli prosequi.1009 having moved the order of the day, the bill for preventing delay in the administration of justice in cases of Misdemeanor was read a third time. His lordship then observed, with reference to what had been said on the subject of informations ex-officio, that he had framed a clause which
noli prosequi.1009The Lord Chancellor
 hoped the House would excuse him if he should rise to make his personal acknowledgments to the noble and learned lord, for the clause which he had submitted to their consideration. The clause went as far as any thing which he could suggest, and carried its object into effect in a much better manner. He could not say that the clause had indeed done all which he could have desired, but it did much more than he had ever expected. This and another clause which the noble and learned lord had introduced, had effected an improvement so material in the bill, that he did not deny that the measure would operate a very considerable improvement in the law of the country. He therefore should for one say, "content" to the motion for passing the bill.Lord Holland
123712361235 rose to move that the bill for more effectually preventing seditious meetings and assemblies be referred to the consideration of a committee. After all that had passed in the course of the session, he was unwilling to suppose that there could be any opposition to the present measure. He could indeed with confidence say, that notwithstanding all the measures which had already been adopted, their lordships would very imperfectly perform their duty, unless they added to them the present, which was calculated to avert one of the greatest dangers to which this country was exposed. Considering, however, the discussions which the measures proposed by his majesty's government had already undergone, and considering the manner in which the public attention had been called to them, he should feel himself warranted in taking up but a small portion of their lordships' time in explaining the details of this bill. The principle of the measure was founded upon the preservation of one of the most important rights of the people—a right which he hoped would ever be maintained—and to secure its exercise in a manner consistent with the free constitution of this country. He could not better describe the evil which it was the object of the bill to prevent, than by referring to the words of its preamble, which stated, that "in divers parts of this kingdom assemblies of large numbers of persons collected from various parishes and districts, under the pretext of deliberating upon public grievances, and of agreeing on petitions, complaints, remonstrances, declarations, resolutions, or addresses, upon the subject thereof, have of late been held, in disturbance of the public peace, to the great terror and danger of his majesty's loyal and peaceable subjects and in a manner manifestly, tending to produce confusion and calamities in the nation." It was matter of
123712361235Lord Sidmouth
1245||1244"Dum vita spes est."124312421241124012391238, in rising to address their lordships on the motion, observed, that from the hurried manner in which the measure had arrived at this stage, little time had been allowed him to decide in what way he should proceed. He considered the bill so objectionable in all its parts, that if he consented to its going into a committee, that consent would arise from the necessity in which he was placed by the previous proceedings of their lordships. He could not, however, allow the measure to be any thing else than an evil which ought not to be acceded to, unless farther limited. It was only upon that condition that ministers ought, if the state of the country required it, to have the advantage of such enactments. He was aware he could not apply the principles of the old law of the country to every new emergency. Although he was cautious of every proposition which might appear to modify that law, he could not deny that, within the century which followed the revolution of 1688, when the principles of the constitution were settled, the situation of the country had undergone considerable change, and that not a little difference had taken place in the state of society. He felt himself, therefore, bound to admit, that some difference might be necessary in the details of the laws, in order to make them answer the great purposes for
1245||1244"Dum vita spes est."124312421241124012391238The Earl of Carnarvon
1247bona fide1246 said that every thing he had heard from the noble viscount tended confirm his objections to the bill. He objected to it as part of a system of coercion of the very worst nature, the effect of which was to alter the constitution of the country, without even the formality of an examination. After the speech from the throne at the commencement of the session, in which parliament were told that it had been necessary to make a large addition to the military force, and in which the existing distresses and discontents had been so strongly insisted on, he had expected that ministers would come down to the House, in order to move for a commit-
1247bona fide1246Lord King
1248 declared it to be his firm persuasion that the situation of the country was most dangerous—a circumstance which he thought was mainly attributable to those scandalous libels which had found their way into every part of the kingdom. It was the duty of parliament in this state of things, to exercise their wisdom, in adopting measures calculated to meet the evils which existed. Upon such measures only, did the salvation of the state depend. On the first division which had taken place in that House on the address to the Prince Regent, the overwhelming majority by which that address had been carried, in his humble opinion, justified the apprehensions which had arisen in the public mind; and the subsequent overwhelming majorities upon the measures which had followed that address, confirmed him in the wisdom by which those measures had been dictated. He was glad to perceive the facetious spirit with which a noble baron attended to his speech; but though he had great respect for the talents displayed on that bench, he might say, that the measures to which he alluded had been approved of by men as wise and as constitutional. He had never interrupted the noble baron, and therefore he hoped the noble baron would not interrupt him. He firmly believed that the measures which had been brought forward by his majesty's government had already produced a most salutary effect, and had tended greatly to diminish the mischievous spirit which was abroad. They were measures which had been called for by the country, by the parliament, and particularly by that House; and ministers, in obeying the call had done their duty, and he hoped would continue to do so until all was accomplished which the situation of the country required. Whatever differences might exist upon other points, they were all agreed in one view—that the constitution of the country ought to flourish, and to be handed down unimpaired to posterity. The noble lords who had proposed to limit the act to two years instead of five, had, by declaring that in such a case they would
1248The Duke of Athol
125212511250 declared, that though he was glad that the country was to be afflicted by this measure for a shorter period than was at first proposed, he must object to it both as a part of a whole, and upon its own demerits. If it did not absolutely take away one of the most important rights of the people, it certainly limited and narrowed it considerably: it vested in the ministers of the
125212511250The Earl of Donoughmore
 said, that he had found fault with ministers for not having taken the necessary steps to prevent meetings of a seditious nature.The Earl of Donoughmore
l.l.l.12721271As ocean sweeps the laboured mole away.""That trade's proud empire hastes to swift decay,"For seats like these beyond the western main""And took a long farewell, and wish'd in vain,"Hung round the bowers, and fondly look'd their last;"When the poor exiles, every pleasure past,"That called them from their native walks away;"Good heaven! what sorrows gloom'd that parting day,"The breezy covert of the warbling grove."—"The cooling brook, the grassy-vested green,"Far different these from every former scene,"The various terrors of that horrid shore.""Far different there from all that charm'd before,1270"Where wild Altama murmurs to their we.""Through torrid tracts with fainting steps they go,"Where half the convex world intrudes between,"Ah no! to distant climes, a dreary scene,126912681267126612651264**l.12631262 said, he should be obliged to detain their lordships longer on this occasion than he had done during the progress of other measures connected with the present through that House, because he conceived the bill of infinite importance, tending as it did to a radical alteration in the frame of the constitution. The noble earl near him who had so ably exposed the true character of the measure under their lordships consideration, had called on the noble lords opposite to exempt Ireland from the operation of this act. That country had been represented by ministers, and by all who had delivered their sentiments on this subject, as being in a state of perfect quietness; and therefore he thought it should not be affected by such a measure. But the noble earl who had just sat down, declared that the bill was a favour and a boon to the people of Ireland. How far he would extend that favour and that boon, he could not say. Was it to be extended to the settlements abroad? There were one or two places to which perhaps ministers might suppose the favour would peculiarly apply. Would they extend it to the Cape of Good Hope, to which they were exporting so large a proportion of the population of the country? Would they also extend it to the inhabitants of Botany Bay?—A noble duke had congratulated himself and those around him, on the overwhelming majorities by which the measures of ministers were supported. If great majorities always proved the truth, then indeed would the excellence of the system now introduced be decidedly made out, and ministers might be considered as the best and wisest of all human beings. But in the course of his own experience he had found, in one or two cases, that positions, supported by overwhelming majorities were in the course of six months afterwards overturned by majorities as overwhelming. Therefore he inferred, that great majorities were not always an undeniable proof of the excellence of measures; and he doubted very much whether, in this case, the large and overwhelming majorities by which ministers were supported would be a satisfactory answer to those who viewed the measures under consideration with distrust and suspi-
l.l.l.12721271As ocean sweeps the laboured mole away.""That trade's proud empire hastes to swift decay,"For seats like these beyond the western main""And took a long farewell, and wish'd in vain,"Hung round the bowers, and fondly look'd their last;"When the poor exiles, every pleasure past,"That called them from their native walks away;"Good heaven! what sorrows gloom'd that parting day,"The breezy covert of the warbling grove."—"The cooling brook, the grassy-vested green,"Far different these from every former scene,"The various terrors of that horrid shore.""Far different there from all that charm'd before,1270"Where wild Altama murmurs to their we.""Through torrid tracts with fainting steps they go,"Where half the convex world intrudes between,"Ah no! to distant climes, a dreary scene,126912681267126612651264**l.12631262Earl Grosvenor
1276127512741273 called the attention of the House to the real question, namely, the object of the bill, which
1276127512741273The Earl of Westmoreland
, in explanation, apologized for having interrupted the noble earl in the progress of his speech. He had never used the words "misconstruction of government." He trusted that he could not possibly be comprehended among persons wishing to disturb the frame of government; his only object being to promote such a reform in the system of the representation in the House of Commons as should make the voice of the people more distinctly heard.Earl Grosvenor
12821281128012791278║l.l.l.l.l.l. expressed his surprise and regret that the noble duke, who appeared to be in so much doubt as to the causes of the present state of the country, had not supported the inquiry, which would have enabled the House, as well as the noble duke, to ascertain the real cause of the existing evil. He acknowledged that he differed from his noble friend near him in thinking that the sinecures or pensions upon which his noble friend dwelt, formed any material cause of the present distress of the country. On this subject he would admit that a great deal had been done by the noble lords opposite. He would, however, assert, that a great and almost unparalleled distress did exist, and he would endeavour to point out its cause. If the noble lords opposite denied the existence of such, distress, they would be stating that which would not be believed in the country. He maintained that such distress and privation extended over a great part of the land, and the real cause of that distress was to be found in the policy of the government which involved a departure from every sound principle of political economy, by allowing the national expenditure to exceed the revenue. The House had lately heard so much of the question of political economy, that he would not then enter into it, but would state generally, that it was impossible for any country not to suffer, whose expenditure had for a length of time been suffered to exceed its revenue. What was the state of the country in this respect under the system of the noble lords opposite? The excess of expenditure had been such, that from the year 1794 to the present period, an amount of debt had been imposed upon the country of no less than 670 millions. From the year 1794 to the year 1819 there had been a nominal debt contracted of from 700,000,00012821281128012791278║l.l.l.l.l.l.The Earl of Lauderdale
1291129012891288l.1287§1286128512841283 assured their lordships, that it was not his wish, at that late hour, to trespass long upon their attention; but as the noble earl who had just sat down had adverted strongly to those principles of policy which his majesty's ministers had adopted, he felt it necessary to offer a few remarks. He should also trouble their lordships with a very few observations on the bill then be-
1291129012891288l.1287§1286128512841283The Earl of Liverpool
"I know you mean the murderous works you can.""Your tranquil looks deceive me not good man;1295129412931292 allowed that the bill certainly came recommended by alterations in its character, which made it very different from its original form, and from the intentions of its authors. It came before them much less objectionable than it had come to the other House. In the opening speeches in that House, and in the other House, and in the original state of the bill, no limit to its duration was even once alluded to, and none of the exceptions which were now contained in the bill were admitted to be possible. Those alterations had removed many of his strongest objections, although he still felt great objections to the machinery which this bill would employ. He could not help expressing at the same time his satisfaction, and offering his congratulation, that important changes had also been made elsewhere in almost all the bills which had been under the consideration of their lordships—changes which had not been contemplated by their framers, and which were not admitted in that House to be compatible with their object. He cared not from what causes those changes had proceeded, but while the bills were in that House, why should their lordships have maintained that such changes Were inconsistent with the grounds on which all the measures were brought forward? Their lordships had agreed, that unless a punishment due only to felons were as signed to persons a second time convicted of libel, seditious and blasphemous libels could not be put down, and all the enactments against them would be useless. Yet only a few days had passed and they now found that punishment changed. The bill, with this odious and unjust punishment in its bosom, had made its way to the other House, and there it had received some sound and salutary changes It would soon return to their lordships, when a noble duke upon cross bench, who had expressed his conviction of the necessity of all the terms and clauses of all the bills brought in by his majesty's ministers, would be required to change his views and his praises of those measures,
"I know you mean the murderous works you can.""Your tranquil looks deceive me not good man;1295129412931292The Marquis of Lansdowne
 said, he felt so much repugnance to the present bill, that he could not leave the House, notwithstanding "the overwhelming majority" with which it would, no doubt, be carried, without delivering his sentiments in a few words. He did not intend to divide the House, and should reserve the more detailed expression of his sentiments to a future occasion. He considered this bill as an unconstitutional, foolish, and mischievous measure; unconstitutional, because it went to fritter away the inherent right of Englishmen to meet and express their opinion, and to make the exercise of that right a crime punishable in the most ignominious manner; foolish, because it did not go to prevent tumultuous meetings, unless they met for discussion, as he would show when he came to consider the question more minutely, and therefore it did not prevent the evils it professed to destroy; and mischievous, because for the reasons stated by his noble friend it would convert open tumult into secret conspiracy, and would substitute for clamour and nonsense the dagger of the assassin.Lord Holland
1296 fully concurred in the observation of the noble marquis on the injustice of extending this bill to Ireland, and he should move in the committee that Ireland be left out. There
1296The Earl of Blesington
126112601259125812571256custos rotulorum,1255l.ornandum, laudandum, tollendum.1254 continued—He was sorry to have mistaken the noble earl, but what he admitted was sufficient for his argument. The noble earl, then found fault with ministers for not preventing these meetings. There could be no doubt
126112601259125812571256custos rotulorum,1255l.ornandum, laudandum, tollendum.1254The Earl of Harrowby
 reminded their lordships, that the question now before them was not on the principle of the bill, but whether they should go into a committee, where its provisions might be discussed. It was pleasing to see that the objections of the noble lords who had opposed the measure applied rather to the date of continuance than the nature of the enactments. But the objections stated by one noble lord to the principle of the bill, and by another noble lord to its duration, rested on the same basis. One of those noble lords said, "I cannot agree to the enactments of the bill, because it is a bad bill; "and the other said, "I must have its operation limited to two years, because it is a bad bill." If it was a bad measure, he called upon their lordships not to pass it at all. This measure did not come before the House like another that had lately received the sanction of parliament, as an invasion of the constitution, and therefore enacted only for a duration commensurate with the period of necessity on which its justification rested It came before their lordships, not as an infringement of long enjoyed privilege, nor as a curtailment of the rights of Englishmen—not, in short, as having any thing in its nature opposed to its perpetuity; but it came before them as a temporary measure, because, though framed to protect rather than infringe the constitution, it contained provisions new to the late practice of the country, and therefore requiring to be brought under the review of parliament at no distant period, when their operation should be known. The noble earl had contended, that the right of meeting ought to be subject to no restrictions; but in doing so he had gone a little too far, and had destroyed the consistency of his speech; for in a subsequent part of his remarks, he had found fault with ministers for not having used military force to disperse those meetings which were said to be seditious ["No," from the earl of Donoughmore.] He was sorry to have mistaken the noble earl.The Earl of Harrowby
1249 regretted that that unanimity which was never so absolutely necessary as it was at the present moment, in consequence of the dangers by which the country was surrounded, did not seem likely to be procured. Facts had been falsified in a manner the most unprecedented, and the characters of magistrates acting on the purest principles, had been assailed by calumnies as gross as they were unwarranted. Many had censured the conduct of the magistrates at Manchester as intemperate: many had censured it as illegal; and not a few had condemned it as originating from the influence of fear. The illusion, however, which had blinded the minds of the people was now however, fast dispersing, and the idea of any impropriety of behaviour on the part of the magistrates would soon be abandoned by men of all parties. This was partly occasioned by that amelioration which had taken place during the progress of these bills through the House, and which was mainly attributable to them. They had been called bills of severity, bills of violence, bills of coercion. Now, he would just call the attention of the House to what they really were. The first of them was the bill against military training, which was already an offence under the existing laws: the second was a bill for the search of arms, which the state of the country rendered absolutely necessary: the third related to the law of tra-
1249The Earl of Morley
 observed, that the word was necessary, as by law a person I might be an inhabitant of a place in certain cases without residence.The Lord Chancellor
 remarked upon the mischievous absurdity of the clause thus worded, which would exclude from attending the meeting, in many instances, persons possessed of property or interest in the parish in whichߞthe meeting was called, or subject them, for attending, to severe punishment.Lord Holland
1304 observed, that if this clause passed, it would be necessary to obtain an inspector of faces in every dis-
1304Earl Grosvenor
 expressed his surprise that the noble earl, who had such an aversion to sinecures, should desire the creation of a new sinecure.The Lord Chancellor
1305 said, the question for the House to consider was, whether they were seriously disposed to get rid of tumultuous and violent meetings. If so, they must adopt enactments similar to those proposed. Every man in the country had sufficient means of knowing the penalties that attached to a breach of the law, and therefore could not plead ignorance. It had been objected, that the clause as it now stood was made to apply to meetings respecting trade; but the reason of that was, that meetings in rooms, were allowed to take place free of the operation of the bill. Before this exception was admitted, it was thought right to make the restriction applicable only to meetings relative to church or state. With regard to meetings in the open air, there were only two ways of regulating themߞeither by limiting- them as to numbers, or as to locality. The limitation of numbers was best; but that was found impracticable, and therefore the limitation of locality was adopted. Country meetings called by the sheriffs or others having authority under the bill, were left untouched, though originally county
1305The Earl of Liverpool
ssl wished to know why the privilege of attendance was given to freeholders of 50sslThe Marquis of Lansdowne
1306s, in reference to what the noble marquis had said on the subject of freeholders, observed, that if his object was to ascertain whether he did not think the practice of 401306sThe Earl of Liverpool
 allowed that the rich and poor, who were resident, were put on an equal footing; but a great distinction was made between the rich and the poor who were not resident. Their lordships should recollect that this bill was not giving a right, but taking it away. When all distinction was abandoned with respect to inhabitants, why should it exist for non-residents?Earl Grosvenor
1307l could not agree with what the noble earl at the head of the treasury had said respecting county meetings. He believed that if the ancient history of such meetings were examined, it would be found that every man, whether freeholder, copyholder, or no holder at all, might attend them. It was true that if a meeting of freeholders only were called, others were excluded by the terms of the summons; but what he contended for was, that every man had a right to meet with those of his own class in county meetings, or some way or other, to consider of grievances and to petition. The noble earl had contended, that this bill did not take away the right, but only regulated it. It, however, did take away the right of meeting in parishes from all non-resident freeholders who had not property to the amount of 501307lLord Holland
 said, that in that case his noble and learned friend might get some person to attend in his room.The Lord Chancellor
 referred to what had been done by the Whigs themselves in other cases of danger, and particularly to the Riot act passed in the reign of George the 1st. By that act the magistrate was empowered to read the proclamation in riotous meetings, or meetings disposed to riot, and all persons who remained after the expiration of an hour were subject to the penalty of death. The noble and learned lord must know that the greater part of the persons assembled on such occasions were attracted by idle curiosity, yet no exception was made, or could be made, in their favour. Such was the state of the law under the Riot act. But by the present act, if any person knowingly and wilfully attended such a meeting, and refused to depart on notification being made, he was only liable to transportation; and after all, the question must be tried before a jury, who would consider the case with all its circumstances, and determine accordingly upon his guilt or innocence.The Earl of Liverpool
1309 could not admit that the severity of one act was any justification for the severity of anotherߞA second objection which he had to the present measure was, that except the case was extremely strong they would find a great difficulty in getting a verdict,; and it was of importance that they should avoid as much as possible the evil of driv-
1309Lord Ellenborough
posse comitatus maintained, that if the bill was not passed with the clause as it stood at present it would not be sufficient to the protection of his majesty's subjects. He might say, without being accused of a paradox, that the weakness of the law, with respect to the suppression of illegal assemblies, was found in the strength of the law; for if they looked to the ancient and statute law, they would find that the subsequent enactments were a mitigation of the existing law, which was found too strong for legislation. By the Riot act the meeting of only three persons might be considered a riotous assembly, and dealt with according to its provisions, and they would find in statutes of great antiquity that the magistrates had not only a power of patting down such meetings, but were liable to prosecution if they did not. The magistrates had a power to arrest all persons attending such meetings long before the reign of George the 1st; and in the posse comitatusThe Lord Chancellor
1310|| assented to the observation of the noble and learned lord, that the strength of the law constituted, in many instances, its weakness, but he would have him to apply the argument to
1310||Lord Holland
 in that clause of the bill excepting lectures delivered at the universities, &c, from the operation of the bill, wished to introduce an amendment. There were four principal institutions in the metropolis at which lectures were delivered occasionallyߞthe London, the Royal, the Surrey, and the Russel institutions: the two former of these establishments were excepted, and he should propose to include the two latter in the exception.The Marquis of Lansdowne
 replied, that the objection he had to the proposition was single, but as he conceived decisive. The saving clause extended only to chartered institutions: and if the line were once broken through, there would be much difficulty in knowing where to stop. He reminded the noble marquis, that the institutions not excepted were only required to obtain a licence, which might be done at the small expense of one shilling.The Earl of Liverpool
 denied that the payment of the shilling was the only inconvenience attendant upon the exclusion. The debates and lectures thus licensed would be constantly subject to the visits of the magistrates, who might make what remarks they pleased, however unpleasant; and, who, without notice, might withdraw the licence at pleasure.Lord Holland
1314 said, the noble earl was mistaken if he thought Ireland was not originally intended to have been included in the bill. Although it originated in the other House he could state that fact upon his own knowledge. He understood it would not very materially affect that country; it would not go to alter any of the people's habits or feelings as to public meetings; for they were not in the practice of so holding them as the people of England had long been. The measure would go to the prevention of evil, and applied as forcibly to Ireland as to any of those counties in England which were not infected by the present contagion. The nature of the evils proposed to be remedied was, that they were very likely to spread, and if the bill were only
1314The Earl of Liverpool
 said, the communications alluded to by the noble earl, had been wholly unattended to in Ireland, The condition of that country was now extremely peaceable; and he thought she was entitled to an exemption from the operations of this bill, as an act of grace for her loyalty and tranquillity. The effect of such an exemption would be sensibly appreciated by that generous people.The Earl of Darnley
 said, that the emissaries from Hunt and others sent to Ireland had totally failed in the object of their mission. When he considered how-long Ireland had been neglected, misgoverned and ill-treated in almost every respect, he thought it too much to have her now told, because she was peaceable, because she was steady in her loyalty, that her only repayment would be a bill of pains and penalties.The Earl of Blessington
1315 said, it would have been somewhat satisfactory to the committee if the noble earl opposite, in stating the communications made by the leaders here to the leaders in Ireland, had also added what he must have known to be the fact, that they proved totally abortive, and were received with contempt, nay, even with abhorrence. Was not that a strong argument why Ireland should be exempted from the operation of the bill? or did their lordships mean to give the people of that country the most gratuitous offence? Bills of the greatest severity had been hurried through both Houses in one night, and when they were directed exclusively against his unhappy
1315The Earl of Donoughmore
 wished the word "obstruct" to be more particularly defined; he should think that it would have been better to have specified a certain time, such as ten minutes during which the obstruction should continue, and the number of persons so obstructing should be declared to be three or four, either more or less. At present it was entirely left to the magistrate to put what construction he pleased upon it. He considered it also a very great hardship, that by the misbehaviour of a few, the subject should be deprived of that right of petitioning which he would otherwise have enjoyed. With the view of correcting this omission he should move the introduction of a clause to the effect of making it lawful for those justices of the peace who dispersed the meeting to authorize the re-assembling of that meeting within the space of forty-eight hours.Lord Ellenborough
verbatim observed, that the clause which the noble lord had objected to was the same verbatimThe Earl of Liverpool
 could not answer the question of the noble earl, but should rather apply to him for information on that subject.The Lord Chancellor
 said, he was about to ask a question which might appear of little consequence; but as the people of Ireland, generally went to all public places, with a shillelah in their hands, he begged to ask the learned lord opposite if a shillelah was to be considered as a weapon.The Earl of Blesington
 said, he should divide the House on the question of the measures being extended to Ireland. No information was laid before the Committee as to the state of that country, and the very terms of the preamble of the bill (stating that it was intended to prevent seditious meetings), evidently showed that it was not originally intended to have embraced Ireland within its operation. There was a peculiar division of counties in Ireland, not noticed in the bill, namely, baronies; and if Ireland was to be visited with the severities of such a measure, some attention should have been bestowed on its adaptation to that country. A degree of party spirit existed in Ireland, which could not be very easily put down, do what they would; but still the military power was very seldom called in to quell any partial disturbances it might occasion, while the present bill held out every encouragement for the military being more frequently employed. That of itself would make the bill objectionable to him; but it was rendered much more so, when he considered that the very objects against which it was directed, did not at all exist in that part of the empire. Many as were the grievances of the people, severe as were the hardships they endured, they had no tumultuous meetings, and they bore their privations without numerous assemblies to petition for their redress. It was urged that the bill did not mainly affect the Irish people, for they could meet in private rooms. But what private room could hold an aggregate meeting of the Roman Catholics? There was no ground before the committee to inflict such a measure upon Ireland.The Earl of Blesington
 contended, that not one individual in the whole country would be excluded from meeting by the bill. Could the noble baron show him a case in which such an exclusion would take place? It was true, that a small freeholder or copyholder could not meet in a parish of which he was not an inhabitant, but such a person must be an inhabitant of some parish or other, and he could meet with the people of that parish.The Earl of Harrowby
 observed, that as the clause now stood, it would have the effect of preventing itinerant orators, and other persons who had no property in a parish, obtaining a colourable right to attend meetings.The Earl of Harrowby
 would put a case, to show the hardship of the operation of the bill. Suppose that he was no freeholder, but lessee of a thousand acres of land for a thousand years, he could not meet in the parish where his property was chiefly situated, if not an inhabitant, though the meeting might be on a subject most important to his interests.Lord Erskine
1308 observed, the effect would be, that he could not attend a county meeting, because he-was no freeholder; nor the parish meeting in which his property lay, because he was not an inhabitant. A noble countryman of his had been displeased with the manner in which his noble friend noticed what fell from him respecting the overwhelming majorities of that House; but the effect of those overwhelming majorities had been almost to overwhelm the vessel of the state. When a measure went out of that House with so powerful a gale, it appeared that it soon got aground, and, after undergoing repairs came back to be examined in the dock again.1308Lord Erskine
 objected to the severity of placing on the same footing with felons, persons who might, not be aware of the act, and who might be innocent of any intention against the laws. He contended, that the effect of milder laws should be tried, before one so severe, and possibly so unjust, was resorted to. As for the argument, which denied the sufficiency of the present laws, there was no force in it. The only evidence which the House had to form their opinion on, was that contained in the papers on the table, and in those papers he could find no proof to countenance the belief that other laws were necessary than those at present in existence. From the wording of the clause as it stood, the penalty was not confined to itinerant agitators, but embraced the class of persons he had already described, and therefore he should move that the word "felony" be omitted.Lord Erskine
 observed, that though this clause allowed freeholders, copyholders, and inhabitants, to attend these meetings, yet there were other persons who were not permittedߞhimself, for instance, who had a lease for 1,000 years, of about 1,000 acres, in one parish where, nevertheless, he was not an inhabitant. He could not, under this bill attend any meeting in that parish, however much his interests might be connected with the object of it, because he did not come under any description of persons within the parish authorized to attend meetings. He objected, however, to the whole of the clause, conceiving that it only tended to irritate the public mind, whilst, in point of fact, it was unnecessary to the object which the framers of the bill had in view. There were provisions to prevent persons coming armedߞto prevent military arrayߞto prevent banners, &c.; and surely these provisions would be sufficient without enacting vexatious and irritating regulations as to the classes of persons who were to be authorized to attend public meetings.Lord Erskine
1311 said, that on turning to the acts of past times, at the suggestion of the noble and learned lord, he could not help comparing the state of things at present with that which existed in the reign of George the 1st, when the Riot act was passed. That act was the offspring of disturbed times, and the object of it was not to prevent the abuse of a right, but to put down tumultuous meetings. His lordship then quoted the authority of lord chief justice Eyre,
1311Lord Erskine
1312 denied that a magistrate, by the common law, was enabled to disperse the meeting, by the act of one man, who might be a spy employed for the occasion.1312Lord Erskine
13801379 rejoiced that his
13801379The Earl of Darnley
13821381, having proposed several amendments on clauses of the bill, wished to state the reasons which induced him to support it. He was the friend of public meetings, for he was of opinion that they were of great advantage in preserving freedom, and that they had been the means of maintaining the fabric of the constitution in energy and vigour. The late war could never have been carried on, had it not been for the spirit with which public meetings animated the country. Though he had objected to some of the clauses of the bill, he voted for it as a whole; because he believed that many of its enactments were calculated to restore to the people what they had lost—the advantage of free discussion; also to give to parliament what it had long lost—the means of ascertaining the opinion of the country, which it was impossible to know without free discussion. Now, to discover the real state of public opinion was impossible, if great bodies of people were allowed to move from one place to another, and to assemble at a particular point, as had been the case at Manchester, and there out-vote the resident inhabitants. Thus a very small minority, acting upon malignant motives, might give the semblance of an overwhelming majority. He voted for this measure because it left untouched all those kinds of public meetings which were known when the Bill of Rights and the Habeas Corpus act passed;; because it left untouched all those meetings which had been legally known to the country for the last century and a half, during which this country had been raised to the highest pitch of prosperity. He voted for it too because it prevented such meetings as those of Manchester and Birmingham; because it prevented the harangues of itinerant orators, and the display of physical force. A very material change had within these thirty years taken place, with respect to this and every
13821381Lord Ellenborough
 should not have troubled their lordships upon the present occasion, but for a petition which he had been requested to present from the city of Westminster. The petitioners were anxious to state their case to their lordships, and to induce the House to sanction the introduction of a clause, by way of rider, which would have the effect of excepting them from the severer operation of this measure. The petitioners grounded their claim to this privilege, more particularly upon an expression which had fallen from a noble earl, a member of the administration and president of the council. That noble lord, the petitioners stated, had observed, in emphatic terms, upon the tranquil character of the meetings held in the city of Westminster, and had contrasted the meetings held in various parts of the country with those convened in Westminster. Whether the petitioners were or were not mistaken in this point, at least noble lords would allow that a petition from the city of Westminster was one worthy of attention. The petitioners so far flattered themselves, that they thought they were worthy of the character given to them, and were therefore most anxious that the clause which he had already alluded to should be introduced. For the purpose, of considering this clause, perhaps it might be advisable to adjourn the debate to some future day.Earl Grosvenor
 said, it was impossible for the noble lord to do what he proposed in this stage of the bill, viz. to introduce a new clause after the bill had been read a third time. It was competent for the noble lord to move the adjournment of the debate, but the opportunity was past for introducing any new clause.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that after the third reading of the bill had been agreed to, the question then arose upon the passing of the bill. Upon this latter question their lordships were now debating; and, according to all the rules of debate which he had ever heard of, no clause could be introduced in this stage of the measure. The noble lord might, indeed, move for the adjournment of the debate, but no reason had yet been assigned for such a motion.The Lord Chancellor
 feared that it was now too late to propose the introduction of any clause. It was, however, competent for him to move an amendment to the original motion, for an adjournment, for the purpose of considering the contents of the parchment he held in his hand. The petitioners imagined that the officer to whom the power was given of calling these meetings, however respectable he might be individually, yet might probably be influenced; and instanced the case of the refusal of the high bailiff to call a meeting to consider the proceedings at Manchester on the 16th of August. With respect to the bill itself, he strongly objected to it in principle, inasmuch as it tended to check the disposition in the people to petition for the removal of their grievances; but he really thought some regulations were requisite with respect to the mode of holding the meetings. It had been observed by a noble lord, that the itinerant orators and demagogues were the cause of the discontent throughout the county. In this observation he begged to differ most widely from the noble lord, because he conceived that it was the discontent which gave rise to the demagogues; and if that discontent were increased by the coercive measures of the government, instead of these itinerant orators being confined to one or two local spots, the whole country would be covered with them, and every parish would have its particular demagogues.Earl Grosvenor
1385 felt anxious to impress upon the House this fact—that the bill could not operate as a prejudice to Ireland. With respect to what had fallen from the noble earl as to the act of Union, he thought it was a little too much, after the lapse of many years, that the noble earl should now come forward to make a deliberate attack upon it. With regard to what had been said relative to the question of Catholic emancipation, he should be glad to know whence the noble earl obtained his information. Fortunately there was a most complete record, which per-
1385The Earl of Liverpool
 rose to repeat the objection he had urged last night to the extension of the bill to Ireland. However unsuccessful he might be in his efforts, he felt fully convinced that this measure was not in the least qualified for Ireland, although it might be calculated to prevent farther disturbances in this country. Under all the grievances under which Ireland had suffered, under all her oppressions and calamities arising from famine and disease, under all the distressing circumstances caused by the act of Union, that country had not complained, but had quietly borne the load of suffering. What then was the return for this praiseworthy conduct? Little relief had been afforded or attention paid; and now, as a farther reward to that unhappy country, the government was about to favour it with this protecting measure. He alluded to the hopes held out to the Protestants on the one hand against emancipation, and on the other to the Catholics in favour of their freedom; and affirmed that Mr. Pitt had resigned his office upon this very question. To neither party had satisfaction been given; for emancipation had neither been granted, nor entirely refused. He concluded with giving notice of his intention, after the recess, to move for a committee to inquire into the state of Ireland.The Earl of Blesington
1384 said, that as far as he was enabled to recollect, the only expression which had dropped from him
1384The Earl of Harrowby
13781377non residents13761375I said, that although he had long foreseen that ill-advised and imprudent meetings of persons too numerous to be useful for the objects they had in view, however legal, were likely to give occasion to alarms as they had done formerly, so as to be made the foundation of new laws depriving the whole nation of rights which he hoped would never be surrendered by Englishmen; yet he did not expect that a measure so totally unnecessary and so likely to aggravate all the evils complained of, would have been sent up for approbation from the House of Commons—but being here, and looking back to those sent down to them, he despaired altogether of making an impression by any thing he could say; a feeling which disqualified him from speaking as he ought. I have been accustomed, my lords (said lord E.) during the greatest part of my life, to be animated by the hope and expectation that I might not be speaking in vain; a sensation without which there can be no energy in discourse—I have often heard it said, and I believe it to be true, that even the most eloquent man living (how then must 13781377non residents13761375ILord Erskine
15841583, on moving the second reading of the bill, congratulated their lordships on the progress that had been made in effecting the purpose for which they had been called together, this being the last of the bills which it had been thought necessary to propose. Their lordships and the other House of Parliament had met the difficulties and dangers of the crisis in a manner the best calculated to stem them; and the measures that had
15841583Lord Sidmouth
158715861585 said:—Ministers have, then, at last wound up, to a happy and appropriate conclusion, by this attack upon the freedom of the press, those measures of indiscriminate coercion, that system of pains and penalties which they had devised against a suffering and a prostrate people, and which have been carried into complete and unrelenting execution by overwhelming majorities in both Houses of Parliament—those ready instruments in the hands of the servants of the Prince Regent, to keep his majesty's subjects down—that best of all possible arguments, in the opinion at least of the noble knight of the Thistle on the cross bench, in favour of their own practice, whatever that practice may happen to be. Such are the true characteristics of these fearful measures.—But what is the light in which we are called upon to view them by their authors and abettors on the other side of the House? Instead of a successful attack upon the liberties of all the people, the noble earl in the blue ribbon has not hesitated to take credit for these enactments, as a mild system of remedial measures—measures of peculiar grace and mercy towards the whole community, necessarily called for, for the protection of the faithful subjects of the state, against the inroad of certain impending dangers, which, however, have come into existence—have been born and bred, and have arrived at full maturity, during the very short period which has intervened since the last prorogation of parliament. If ministers had been aware of the impending storm, is it possible that they could so far have neglected their duty as to have sent the members of both Houses home, without giving them some authentic intimation of the dangers with which the country was encompassed? And is it not making too great a demand upon our credulity, for ministers to call upon us to believe, that in four short months this mushroom rebellion has sprung up, and has already assumed so formidable an appearance? What, then, is the result of all this? My lords, I do net feel myself entitled to believe that disaffection has extended itself widely. I am not bound to give implicit credit to the representations which ministers think fit to make in their
158715861585The Earl of Donoughmore
 said, he had most conscientiously voted for these measures, being thoroughly satisfied that they were imperiously required by the state of the country. He was satisfied they would prove highly satisfactory to the great majority of the country.The Duke of Athol
15891588 said, he had voted for the present measures, because he conceived that their necessary tendency was, to secure the peace of the country, and to promote the happiness of the people. This was the end and aim of all just government; but he must deny to those who were endeavouring to disturb society the character of being the people. Upon that understanding he would say, that the bills in question were calculated to add to the happiness, and to defend all the constitutional rights and interests of the subject. The meeting of parliament ought, indeed, in the present state of the country, to be regarded as a blessing, independently of these measures. How often had it been asserted and resolved in public places, that a certain meeting had been a legal meeting? Yet, was there one man in either House of Parliament who had dared to avow such an opinion? Other meetings, however, had been held in such numbers as to produce tenor, and thereby alone
15891588The Lord Chancellor
dumtacent clamant observed, that no one could have anticipated the occurrences which took place during the recess, and that ministers, by waiting until now, only showed a disposition to trust to the existing laws, as long as they could do so with safety. Besides, the refusal of the noble lords on the other side to assent to them even now, was a proof of the difficulties that must have attended their proposal at any former period. With the exception of London, Westminster and Southwark, no petition or remonstrance had been presented against them. The silence of the people could not be disputed; and if ever there was an occasion to which the hackneyed quotation dumtacent clamantThe Earl of Harrowby
1591 said, that the bill would only affect publications sold for sixpence or less. Those, therefore, that were of a higher price, were wholly exempt from its operation. As to the objection taken by the learned lord, that sureties had only hitherto been called upon to give security against a specific act, he would beg leave to observe, that with regard to a numerous and important class of persons, he meant the publicans, the principle of calling for security for their good behaviour had been long recognized and acted upon. Nor could he discover any objection to the measure of securities required under the present bill, considering the circumstances which had rendered it necessary. It was not directed against the respectable body of booksellers and printers, but against those persons who had intruded themselves into that class, and who, having neither property, respectability, nor responsibility, it became essentially necessary to prevent the mischievous consequences, that were daily increasing, of the publications sent
1591The Earl of Liverpool
 agreed as to the necessity that existed for passing the present bill; a necessity arising from those mischievous publications which had been sent forth at a cheap rate to delude and deceive the lowest classes of the people. It was not against the respectable press that this bill was directed, but against a pauper press, which, administering to the prejudices and the passions of a mob, was converted to the basest purposes, which was an utter stranger to truth, and only sent forth a continual stream of falsehood and malignity, its virulence and its mischief heightening as it proceeded. If he was asked whether he would deprive the lowest classes of society of all political information? he would say, that he saw no possible good to be derived to the country from having statesmen at the loom and politicians at the spinning jenny. He differed from his learned friend in his view of this bill, considering it as imperatively called for by that mischievous abuse of the public press, those cheap publications, which were comparatively of modern date, and which had for a time derived impunity and increased in virulence and malignity, in consequence of the acquittal of Hone. The mischief arising from them in the deception and delusion practised upon the lowest classes, by means of the grossest and most malignant falsehoods, was such, that it threatened the most material injury to the best interests of the country, unless some means were devised of stemming its torrent. Conceiving that the regulations contained in this measure would have the effect of extinguishing this gross and flagrant abuse of the press, that he felt it his duty to support the bill.Lord Ellenborough
1590 said, he could not suffer the bill to pass without declaring his opinion in a very few words, and putting it on the Journals by his protest. He felt as much as those who were the authors of the measure, the necessity of supporting the authority and of maintaining the dignity of parliament, but he was confident
1590Lord Erskine
