R.1597R. presented the following Message from the King:R.1597R.Lord Castlereagh
15991598 said, he should move that it be taken into consideration tomorrow. He thought it necessary that members should have a day to consider one part of it, but he hoped the House would feel that there ought to be no delay in replying to another part—he meant that which referred to the death of his late majesty. In rising to propose an address of condolence to his majesty, the House would feel that it was not necessary or desirable for him to go into lengthened details; and he hoped that, from the few observations which he had to make nothing would arise to prevent their coming to an unanimous decision on the present melancholy occasion. They would, he was persuaded, all join in the same sentiments of affliction and reverence for the loss of their late beloved monarch. Whatever might be the opinions respecting the events of the late reign, and of the administration of government under his present majesty, there could, he was certain, be no difference as to this point—that under the illustrious House of Brunswick this country had enjoyed a greater share of happiness and glory than had fallen to the lot of any other nation on the face of the globe. The House, he was sure, were anxious to testify their deep affliction at the loss of a monarch, who, in the course of a long reign, during periods of great trial, had, by his mild and amiable qualities, secured the love and esteem of the nation. Indeed, the veneration in which our late beloved monarch was held, and the general attachment to him by all ranks and
15991598Lord Castlereagh
nem. con.nem. con. said, that no man could be more sensible than himself of the virtues of their late revered and lamented sovereign—virtues too numerous to be then detailed Nor could any man be more sincere than himself in congratulating his present majesty on his accession. No man could feel a greater personal respect for his majesty than himself. No man could be more earnest in his hopes that his majesty's reign might be long and prosperous. No man could exceed him in zealous wishes that that reign might be productive of equal honour and advantage to his majesty and to the country. Undoubtedly there was one expression in the address which he thought had better have been omitted. He adverted to that passage which spoke of "the experience of the past." On all the past he wished to turn his back. He wished to bury it in oblivion. A new reign was commencing, and he most anxiously hoped that his majesty would adopt such measures—that his ministers would advise such measures, as would conduce to his majesty's own character, honour, and dignity, and to the general benefit of the country.nem. con.nem. con.Mr. Tierney
16061605 observed, that in rising to move an Address to his Majesty, it might be for the convenience of the House to state, what course it was the intention of ministers to propose. It was well known, that although before the late recess various bills had been agreed to, applicable to the then state of the country, the great mass of the public busi-
16061605Lord Castlereagh
1609 assured the right hon. gentleman, that he had no other purpose in the propositions which he had submitted to the House, than that which he had distinctly avowed. It did not appear to his majesty's government, that the various topics to which he had alluded, could be so conveniently discussed by the present as by a new parliament. It must quiet any constitutional jealousy on the subject to observe, that the vote which his right
1609Lord Castlereagh
l.l. agreed, that the Crown was at this moment without any other revenue than that portion of the hereditary revenue which belonged to the civil list, amounting to between 500,000l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that every pains would be taken to prevent any inconvenience arising in the quarter alluded to, from the dissolution of parliament.Lord Castlereagh
1612 said, he could assure the House, that the civil list would be arranged with every view to economy, and a proper attention to the dignity of the Crown. The hon. and learned member had taken a constitutional objection to the discussion of the dissolution of parliament, observing, that nothing of the kind had been previously done.—That hon. member ought to recollect, that parliament had on a former occasion presented an Address, praying that the Crown might not interfere with its operations by dissolution. What was to prevent the House from now entertaining such a question he was yet to learn. It was argued also, that a prorogation was the old wholesome law of the constitution. But the law was the other way. The old practice was, that parliament died immediately on the demise of the Crown; and it was by recent enactments that a sort of period of grace was extended, and parliament allowed to sit six months after such demise, the power still remaining in the king to dissolve at pleasure. This enactment was made in the reign of king William, and the specific ground for it was, that at that time there was a disputed succession, and it would have been inconvenient that parliament should be instantaneously separated. This act was made permanent in the reign of queen Anne, when a foreign succession was again contemplated. It was an act which was analogous to, and by no means opposed to the spirit of
1612Mr. Canning
 said, it was singular, that though ministers confessed that there was a series of precedents before them, they should think it necessary to deviate from them without assigning a reason for their conduct. It was admitted that all the kings of England since the Revolution, had felt it necessary to throw themselves upon parliament for a suitable provision to support their dignity, nor was there any instance where the people did not ratify and approve of the conduct of their representatives on such occasions. The present was the first time that the civil list was not noticed in the message from the Crown. Was it that the present parliament, which had gone so far with government, were not to be trusted? or was it that the loyal and generous people of this country would feel displeased at making a suitable provision for the Crown? It was said that economy would be looked to in providing for the civil list; but it was known how little value was to be set upon such statements. The impression upon his mind was, that there was something in agitation, which, if brought forward now, would not bear the test of a general election.Mr. Macdonald
 agreed in the principle of the bill, but suggested that it was likely, in the event of the bill going to the Lords, they would call for the information upon which the Commons had acted.Lord Castlereagh
1614 was of opinion, that Barnstaple ought to be included in this bill. Ample evidence had been given at the bar, of the existence of bribery in that borough, and the other House was proceeding upon a similar inquiry, when their proceedings were put an end to by the prorogation of parliament. No one could deny the plenitude of the authority of parliament, on this as on other subjects. But it would certainly embarrass the proceedings if members were returned
1614Mr. Wynn
 said, that he had no objection to include Barnstaple in the bill.Lord J. Russell
1613 said, that in bringing forward his motion with regard to those boroughs in which bribery had
1613Lord John Russell
16081607, declared, that the whole of the proceeding was the most extraordinary he had ever heard of. He did not believe that there had ever been an accession to the Crown without some communication to parliament of a nature very different from that which had been made in the present instance. It had always been usual to say something of the feelings of the now monarch, and of the course of policy which it was his intention to pursue. In the present case, the House had only been drily told, that his majesty's government found it convenient to send them about their business as soon as possible. It was true, it might be said, that on former occasions of the demise of the Crown, parliament was in a state of prorogation; and that there was, therefore, greater scope for observations of the nature to which he alluded, in the speech from the Throne, on its assembling. But on such an occasion as the present, there would have been no irregularity in summoning the House of Commons to attend in the other House of Parliament, for the purpose of hearing the royal sentiments.
16081607Mr. Tierney
1611** could not help expressing his surprise at the extraordinary nature of the proceedings adopted by ministers. With respect to the subject alluded to by the hon. member who had just sat down, it was not then his intention to offer a word upon it. This was the first message which so precisely and so specifically pointed out the dissolution of parliament. Whenever parliament interfered with the prerogative of the Crown, they were told by ministers that they were not competent to entertain the subject of the termination of their existence as a body—that the Crown alone was to decide upon it. Without meaning to deny the right of the people to control ministers in the advice which they gave the Crown as to the exercise of its prerogative, he could not help noticing the strange position in which parliament was placed. They were called upon to give an opinion whether the proposed dissolution was a well advised measure or not. Thus called upon, it was no wonder that they should enter upon the discussion. For himself he was as little averse to an immediate dissolution of parliament as the noble lord, or any of his colleagues could be. He had, however, one remark to make upon this advice given to the Crown; he presumed that ministers had maturely weighed the inconvenience to which the country would be put by having the election come on in the middle of the assizes. On the former dissolution of parliament the term was postponed, but it could not be done in the present instance. The next point to which he should refer, was more material. He could not help congratulating the House upon the admission which had been, though slowly, wrung from ministers. Not long since they were told, that so great was the alarm in the public mind —so inherent was vice in the country— so great was the number of discontented and designing persons, who were plotting the subversion of the constitution—that it was found necessary to call upon parliament to pass the most harsh and restrictive measures, in order to put down the turbulence of the county. But now the fact was, that one of these restrictive measures expired with the parliament, and as ministers did not exercise their discretion in proposing its renewal, it showed that the necessity for it had ceased, or else they were about to plunge the country into a situation which not many weeks since was said to be incon-
1611**Mr. Brougham
l. said, that by the 54th Geo. 3rd, chap. 16, a sum of 35,000l.Mr. Hume
R."1615R. reported the King's Answer to the Address, as follows;R."1615R.Lord Jocelyn
 said, he thought the answer which he had given the hon. gentleman on a former evening would have been deemed quite satisfactory. If the hon. gentleman had waited for the motion which the chancellor of the exchequer proposed to submit, he would have seen that no distinct provision was to be voted for the king, any more than for the high personage to whom he had alluded, but that a sum was to be voted from the consolidated fund, out of which it was intended to make provision for that high personage, as well as for the general purposes of his majesty. He expressed his regret, that any attempt should be made at present to press into discussion the very delicate question adverted to by the hon. gentleman, as such discussion was but too likely to create a ferment in the country, while it was calculated to give pain to the illustrious personages more immediately interested. The hon. gentleman might be fully assured that the high personage to whom he referred was by no means likely to experience any thing like harshness or inattention [Hear, hear!].Lord Castlereagh
 stated, that such provision was intended to be granted out of the sum for which his right hon. friend proposed to move.Lord Castlereagh
 rose only for the purpose of thanking the hon. and learned gentleman for a speech which did equal honour to his head and his heart, and which must have carried conviction to all who heard it. His majesty's ministers had not lost sight of the inconvenience which might arise from a lapse of the provision which had been made for an illustrious personage, and it was their intention to submit a suitable measure to the consideration of the House.Lord Castlereagh
 thanked lord Castlereagh for his liberal conduct hitherto on this Bill, and hoped that he would endeavour to secure its final success by using his influence with his friends in another place [Order! and Hear!] so that it might not fall to the ground after it had passed that House.Sir C. Burrell
 said, he had never heard any thing much more disorderly than the allusion of the hon. baronet; but even if that suggestion, were attended to, he thought it quite impossible that the bill could pass into a law. It was because he was in earnest, in support of the measures which this bill professedly furthered, that he did not wish the House to be so misled, as to suppose that any assembly could pass a bill condemning four boroughs, while in the case of one only they had any evidence. It was only in the case of Barnstaple that the House of Lords had any evidence. He wished to see the writs suspended till the circumstances which had appeared to criminate these boroughs could be inquired into, and he therefore wished the House to proceed by address, which was, in his opinion, the true parliamentary course. According to the present mode of proceeding, the House was at the mercy, not only of the Crown, but of the other House of Parliament. He contended, that the issuing and suspending of writs should depend on the House alone, and upon this doctrine the House had hitherto acted.Mr. Calcraft
1617 said, that the proceeding by way of address would go to the overthrow of the constitution, by putting the whole elective franchise into the hands of the Crown. The address of the House could not confer on the Crown a power not before possessed; it could only call on the Crown to exercise a power already existing. It would, therefore, recognise that the Crown could, at its own will and pleasure, put an end to the elective rights of any portion of the electors of the kingdom. This proposal was not, indeed, without precedent, for he had heard of a plan of reform, promulgated under the high authority of the Hampden Club, by which the king was to be begged, as the simplest and best plan of reform, to abstain from sending writs to certain boroughs, and to send writs to other places.
1617Mr. Wynn
 said, the bill required serious consideration. The House had not all the evidence before them en the different cases. Besides, there were in the different cases various shades of criminality. Two of their own members also (Mr. Swann and sir M. Lopez) had been severely visited, as well as several voters of two of the boroughs. Was it likely that these persons, after the warning they had had, would again commit the crime for which they had suffered? Indeed, if he were asked where he should expect to find the greatest purity and independence in the elections throughout the country, he should naturally lay his hand on those boroughs. There was such a difference also in the evidence before the Lords and that before the Commons, respecting Barnstaple, that the difficulty concerning that case was much increased.Mr. Marryat
1619pro hac vice,prima facie1618 said, that his doubts as to the expediency of passing the bill were founded on his sense of the great importance of the measure ultimately in view. They were not in those circumstances, or in that period of the session, when they could enter into the consideration of a change in the representation with advantage or effect. The change now proposed was no less than to extinguish the fran-
1619pro hac vice,prima facie1618Mr. Brougham
 thought it would be a delicate matter for the House to interfere to induce the Crown to remit a sentence which the court of King's-bench had imposed. The members of that House, too, should be the last to appear disposed to treat with lenity such offences, which they were out of doors but too generally supposed to view with favourable eyes. He was himself not prepared to say that the sentence was too severe. Though offenders of this kind might, in some instances, gain the cross, and in others the crown, the court of King's-bench did well always to show a severe front to such offences. He felt reluctant to make these observations, because he had had to appear as advocate for this individual. After having done his duty on this occasion, however, his connection with him had ceased.Mr. Scarlett
 said, the only object of this bill was to enable the House to apply any punishment it might inflict on these boroughs earlier than they otherwise could. The non-existence of the bill would not form an obstacle to the taking cognizance of these cases in a new parliament. Though he had made up his mind to vote for the bill, he could not disguise the fact that it was a strong measure, and went beyond the precedents which had been adduced. The case of Shaftesbury only applied to the issuing of writs during the existence of a parliament over which the House had a constitutional control. But it was a bolder measure to interfere with the elections for a future parliament, when they were, in some measure, tied up to a specific number of members by the act of Union.Lord Castlereagh
1620prima facie maintained, that there was a sufficient 1620prima facieSir J. Mackintosh
 thought the Shaftesbury case much, stronger than the present, as in that case the Lords had obtained from that House a copy of the evidence taken before a committee upon the subject, in order to examine such evidence before the act was agreed to.Lord Castlereagh
1625**1624 declared his unwillingness to vote any sum for the queen, until some explanation should be given or promised as to the rumours which had gone abroad with respect to her conduct upon the continent. He agreed with the noble lord in thinking this a very delicate question to be discussed in that House. But by whom was it brought into discussion? Why, by ministers themselves, who, although they deprecated this discussion at present, held out the prospect of some such discussion at a future—[here lord Castlereagh intimated his dissent] "Then,". said Mr.
1625**1624Mr. Tierney
16281627l.eo ipse1626 observed that if his
16281627l.eo ipse1626Air Brougham
 said, that early in the session of 1812, he had moved for a return of the amount and application of the different monies received by the Crown, which were not under the immediate control of parliament. This was at all times a matter of great importance, but it was more particularly so at a period like the present, when new arrangements for the support of the royal dignity were about to be entered into. The funds to which he alluded were important, as they involved a considerable variety of influence and management. When he made the motion to which he had alluded, he was answered, that arrangements having been made by parliament for supporting the civil list, it would be improper to enter into such an inquiry, as it would be a breach of the terms agreed upon. But it was admitted at the same time, that such an inquiry might be made on the demise of the Crown. He had felt the full force of this objection. But now he conceived the period was arrived when such a motion ought to be made. Those funds had arisen to such an amount that they ought to be settled on a permanent and constitutional footing. He should therefore move for, "An account of the total produce of all funds at the disposal of the Crown, and usually deemed not to be under the immediate control of parliament, since the accession of his late majesty, distinguishing the monies arising from droits of Admiralty and droits of the Crown, 4½ per cent West India duties, Scotch revenue, and those from all other such sources not hereinbefore specified.—Ordered.Mr. Brougham
 observed, that his wish was to have a distinct provision for the queen, at least equal to that which she enjoyed under the late act of parliament.Mr. Hume
1623l.1622 observed, that before the Speaker left the chair, he was anxious to obtain some information upon a point, with regard to which he had on a former evening felt it his duty to put a question to the noble secretary of state, to which question he had received a very unsatisfactory answer. He meant with respect to the situation of the Queen. If there was any subject which more than another interested the feelings of that House and the public, he believed it was the condition of this illustrious personage. For what was that condition? It was clear from recent occurrences, as well as from the language of the noble lord, that the Queen was not only unacknowledged, but that it was determined that she was not
1623l.1622Mr. Hume
 brought in a bill for continuing the Mutiny Act, from the 24th of April to the 24th of June. After a short conversation, the bill was read a first and second time.Lord Palmerston
 observed, that the money to be paid out of this grant would, were it not for the demise of the Crown, have been paid in the usual way to the princess of Wales. All that was intended was, to pay the sums now due in the same manner as if that melancholy event had not taken Place.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the right hon. gentleman knew that this or any other payment, officially made, could not alter the state of the party receiving it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the sum formerly granted to the princess of Wales was now payable to the queen, and to no other person.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the individual to whom the grant had been made still remained, though her political character was changed. Her majesty had a right to receive in her present situation what had been granted to her in another.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 repeated, that there being no such personage as the princess of Wales, any grant to the queen should be so stated to parliament.Mr. Tierney
 observed, that the only provision he knew of was made for the princess of Wales—but there was now no such personage in existence. How, then, could they vote a grant of this kind? He knew the right hon. gentleman dared not mention the name of the queen. But could they, he would ask, give to an individual not mentioned in the grant a sum of money voted to another person? He should like to hear the chancellor of the exchequer mention the name of the queen, as he wished to have it recorded on the Journals.Mr. Tierney
1630 denied the power of the right hon. gentleman to make any such
1630Mr. Tierney
 said, he wished to know from what fund, the money necessary for the support of the queen was to be paid? During the late reign, provision was made for the princess of Wales, but now that royal personage was queen of England.Mr. Tierney
 asked, why such difficulty was made about mentioning at once that the grant was for the queen? By merely stating this the objection of the right hon. gentleman would at once be met.Mr. Hume
1631 said, that the grant moved for was stated to be for paying of annuities, &c. payable out of the civil list, and which would have been duly paid but for the demise of the Crown. It would be improper to mention the name of her majesty as one of the persons receiving an annuity, unless all the other names were also mentioned, which it
1631Mr. Lushington
43 rose for the purpose of submitting a motion to supply the vacancy in the honourable office of Speaker. He had never claimed the attention of the House with more unmixed satisfaction, from a conviction that the opinion he entertained upon this subject was universal among the honourable gentlemen whom he was addressing. Although the distinguished individual who had presided over the deliberations of the House during the two last parliaments had perhaps the most indisputable title again to fill the same office, he could not but be
43Sir William Scott
8 said, that, in the situation in which the House now found itself, the only question that remained was that of adjournment; but he hoped he might be permitted, in the name of the House, as well as for himself, to offer his congratulation on the choice that had just been made. From the manner in which the proposition of his right hon. friend had been received, it was obvious that the House was anxious to bestow on the individual now appointed to preside over its discussions, the highest mark of its approbation and confidence; and there could be no such mark in this free country more distinguished, than that of being rendered the first commoner of the empire. It was undoubtedly a matter of proud satisfaction, that at the period when the Speaker was placed in the chair, all opinions were united in his favour. He was sure that the House would feel what had been already observed, that, without touching upon the peculiar importance of the times in which we lived (and certainly that man must take a very superficial view of the condition of affairs who should consider them but ordinary times), the office of Speaker included many important duties connected with the jarring interests of this mighty empire, while parliament was. devoting its attention to promote its welfare and. prosperity. It
8Lord Castlereagh
5 seconded the motion. He said, he had not sat so long in parliament without having obtained some knowledge of the arduous duties of the Speaker: the great increase of public business had of late added much to the severity of the burthen. In thus supporting the proposition of the right hon. mover he was aware that he was placing himself in a situation to which he had no other claim than the length of time during which he had filled a seat in parliament: his service as a representative had taught him how much of the regularity and dignity of their proceedings were connected with the office of Speaker. If he had had to recommend a gentleman who was unknown, it would have been proper to have entered at some length into the foundation of his claim; but, as had been already remarked, the individual now proposed had proved himself, in every way, worthy of the confidence and approbation of the House. As be had never known Mr. Manners Sutton but in his public capacity, he could not propose him with the partiality of private friend-
5Mr. Holme Sumner
9 in the absence of those more competent and more worthy generally to express the feelings of those who sat on his side of the House, trusted that it would not be thought presumptuous if he added his testimony to that of the hon. gentleman who had preceded him. He took the liberty, therefore, to congratulate, first the Speaker, but most of all the House itself, and not less the House than the whole Commons of England, upon the free choice which had now fallen, for the third time, upon the same individual. He was sure that he expressed only the general sentiment in the wish that the Speaker now elected might continue with the enjoyment of health and long life to fill a station equally necessary for the support of the privileges of the House, and for the preservation of the liberties of, the people at large; and the duties of which, he grieved to say, by the common consent of all, were not likely to be lightened. It was a matter of most sincere congratulation to the House and to the country, that it had again the inestimable benefit of having the chair filled by one who had shown himself, in all the more important, as well as in the less material parts of the functions of his situation, eminently gifted for their discharge; who had upon every occasion proved that he was indeed the depository of the truest dignity of the House, by wearing the honours conferred upon him both with firmness and meekness. It formed one of his highest and most essential titles to the office, that on all necessary occasions he had evinced the courage as well as the capacity to protect the sacred privileges of the House from infraction, under whatever pretext, whether assaulted by lawless violence, or
9Mr. Brougham,
76 rose amid the cheers of the House. He said, he hoped that neither the right hon. gentleman who had moved his nomination in a manner so
76Mr. Manners Sutton
11 informed the House, that they had been in the House of Peers, where the commissioners, authorized by his majesty's commission, had communicated to him that his majesty had been graciously pleased to approve of their choice of him as Speaker. He had thereupon immediately proceeded to claim for them their ancient rights and privileges of freedom of speech, freedom from arrest for themselves and servants, free access to the royal presence, &c. all of which his majesty had been graciously pleased to grant to them in as full and ample manner as ever had been granted on any former occasion. He must again express the deep sense of gratitude which he felt to the House for having thus conferred on him this, the highest mark of confidence in their power; and he must now implore them to give him their constant support to enable him to preserve their privilege which were not only theirs, but the privileges of all the Commons of England. He had also to entreat their constant and unremitting support and assistance in preserving the established rules and orders of the House; not less necessary for the preservation of decency and regularity in their proceedings, than they were for the convenient dispatch of business. It should be his constant study so to discharge the duties of his high situation as to give satisfaction to the House, and in such a manner as should be most useful to the public, and conducive to his own honour. The first business which gentlemen had now to attend the was, to take the several
11The Speaker
 said, he was not disposed to quarreh with a great deal that had fallen from the hon. mover and seconder; on the contrary, he agreed with them entirely upon some points; and if at all times he felt it unnecessary to bring forward matter of difference where none was offered on the other side, he should be peculiarly unwilling to do so on the present occasion, when the first speech of a new sovereign was before the House. The fair, cool, and temperate tone of the hon. gentlemen who had just taken their seats, formed another inducement for him not to express any dissent; or, supposing the. speech from the throne had contained any particular phrase, ambiguous or liable to misconstruction, what they had said on the various points would probably have rendered explanation needless. He congratulated the House on the prevailing unanimity; he hoped it was an earnest of the future, and that all parties in the House would unite in the expression of unshaken loyalty to the Crown, and of a firm determination, while the true liberties of the people were supported, to set themselves honestly and steadily against those machinations alike directed against the happiness and security of the sovereign and his subjects. In that direction he would go as far as any man; and beyond that, happily, on the present occasion, it was not necessary to say more. He therefore again congratulated the House on the favourable auspices under which the new session was commenced.Mr. Tierney
3837 said, that he should be very sorry if he were supposed capable of showing any disrespect to the throne, by disturbing the unanimity so desirable on the present occasion. He should certainty be reluctant to do so for the reasons already stated; but he could not at the same time avoid observing, that for some few years past the House had been placed in rather an awkward and disagreeable predicament with regard to the speeches from the throne, Formerly it was expected that they should be a full and fair statement of the whole situation of the country, instead of being frittered away, as at present, into mere matters of form and compliment, in which gentlemen might or might not concur according to the state of their own feelings, and the respect which all ought to feel towards the person of the sovereign, but a non-concurrence in which need not be intruded upon the House when all questions
3837Sir Francis Burdett
3534 rose to second the address, and said, that he did not yield to the hon. mover in the earnest hope which he had expressed, that the House would unanimously agree to the address; and he trusted that no expression would fall from him which could in any degree tend to provoke discussion, or interrupt the unanimity of the House. He would avoid the introduction of any topics which might more properly come under the subsequent consideration of the House; but there was one topic on which he could anticipate the unanimous feelings of the House—he meant the demise of our late venerable sovereign. Looking at the period of his accession to the throne in the prime of life and the pride of hope, and contrasting it with the mournful close of his life, when confined within the precincts of his palace, and bereft of that sense which might have mitigated his afflictions, he was shut out from almost all the consolations which this life affords. Whatever difference of opinion might exist as to the policy of the measures pursued during his reign, every feeling of irritation must subside at the contemplation of so awful an instance of the instability of human grandeur. The recollection of the paternal solicitude with which he uniformly watched over the interests of the. people, would secure to his memory the lasting gratitude of the country. His reign, one of the longest in our annals, was distinguished by an event so prominent, as almost to monopolize our attention;—he alluded to the French revolution, an event which might justly be considered as one of the most extraordinary in the history of nations, whether we regarded its origin, its continuance or its termination. It had terminated in a military despotism, which threatened to overwhelm the whole civilised world, but which had been, at length, triumphantly
3534Mr. Wilmot
333231302928 rose. He said, he should take the liberty of directing the attention of the House to the gracious speech which they had heard, for the purpose of proposing such an address to his majesty as should accord with their feelings of loyalty, and their affectionate regret for the loss of his late majesty; and therefore he hoped, such an address as would be unanimously sanctioned by both sides of the House. In discharging this duty he should have occasion to refer to various topics, and he felt that his best claim to the indulgence of the House would be the assurance that he should not encroach at any great length on their attention. On the present occasion he felt particularly anxious that the address which he was about to propose should be adopted by an unanimous vote of the House. The recent accession of his majesty, and this being the first opportunity he had had of meeting his parliament, were, in his mind, grounds of very considerable weight; and, in the present situation of the country, an address from parliament in favour of its established government was of material importance. When he spoke of the government of the country, he of course did not mean the persons by whom the functions of government were discharged, but the constitution of the country itself. In the address which he was about to submit to the consideration of the House, nothing of a political nature would be found to militate against the attainment of that unanimity which was so desirable. On looking forward to the course which ministers might be about to adopt, he meant not to pledge himself, much less the House, if it should agree to this address, to support any particular measures. He could, with great truth, state to the House, that if, in moving this address, he had considered that lie was compromising the principle of any measure that might be afterwards brought forward, he would not have been found to discharge that duty. Before he proceeded to the consideration of the principal points in the speech which they had heard read, it would not be right if he did not
333231302928Sir Edward Knatchbull
 rose to give notice, that on Thursday, the 11th of May, his right hon. friend, the member for Dublin (Mr. Grattan), would submit to the House a motion for the removal of the disabilities which the law at present imposed on his majesty's Roman Catholic subjects.40Sir H. Par-
40
 gave notice of a motion for leave to bring in a bill to disfranchise the borough or Grampound, and to transfer the elective franchise to the borough of Leeds. He also begged leave to say, that in the course of the session he intended to submit to the House a motion for shortening the duration of sir M. Lopez's imprisonment.Lord John Russell
43l. stated, in reply to the questions of the noble lord, that the expense already incurred considerably exceeded the 50,00043l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l. said, he could not help observing, that the papers before the House seemed to be all very clear, with the exception of the sum of 385,000l.l.l.Mr. Tierney
l.l.,44 observed, that it had been from time to time the practice of parliament, that certain monies, arising from particular colonial funds, should be added to the privy purse. But the right hon. gentleman would see,
l.l.,44The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.,l. knew that the allowance of 60,000l.,l.Mr. Tierney
 said, that such had been the immemorial usage.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.,l. wished to know, whether they were to understand that the funds of the Crown might be enlarged in this manner by his majesty's ministers? If not, how did it happen that this 6,000l.l.,l.Mr. Tierney
 said, that it was impossible to give a specific account of such appropriations, occurring in the earlier years of so extended a reign, although it might be in his power to show in what manner they had been made during the latter part of it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l., said, that the excess of 385,000l.,Mr. Tierney
4241l. said, that it was not his intention to trouble the House at any length, but he could not allow the present opportunity to pass without impressing on the minds of the right hon. gentlemen opposite the necessity of attending to the distress of that part of the country with which he was connected. When the House recollected that fourteen or fifteen weeks ago the commerce and manufactures of the country had been represented to be in a most flourishing condition, and when they compared that declaration with the statements in the Speech delivered yesterday from the throne, they must all be struck with the sudden change which had taken place in the aspect of the country; and he, for one, should not think that he discharged his duty conscientiously, if he did not on the present occasion suggest what he conceived might be applied in mitigation of the evil. They would all remember that a sum of 50,0004241l.Lord A. Hamilton
 gave notice, that he meant to bring before the House the question of the Scotch representation; and, to keep clear of the time just fixed on by his hon. friend, he should bring forward his motion on the 24th of May. He also gave notice, that on Thursday next he should move for the revival of the committee on the Scotch burghs.Lord A. Hamilton
pro tanto,non constat45 said, that upon the subject of the civil list it might be matter of convenience to the House to understand when it would be brought forward. He deeply regretted that it was one which was not to remain in the hands of hon. gentlemen opposite. He did hope that those hon. gentlemen would have submitted the matter to the consideration of
pro tanto,non constat45Mr. Brougham
 gave notice, that, at an early period after the Whitsuntide holydays, he should submit a motion relative to the education of the poor. Although he was aware that it was irregular to enter in to any explanation on rising merely to give a notice, yet he trusted the House would allow him to observe, that the delay which had already occurred was owing to anything rather than to his being less sensible than formerly of the importance of education. On the contrary, the events which had lately occurred had rather strengthened his conviction of the indispensable necessity of imparting education to the poor. One cause of the delay which had taken place was, that the Education Digest, on which the measures which he should have to propose would be founded, could not be sooner prepared; and it was desirable that it should be in the hands of members before the question was brought under discussion. Another reason for his not fixing an earlier period was, that the discussion of the civil list, incident to the commencement of a reign, would occupy the attention of the House for a considerable time, and it, was desirable that the discussions on these two subjects should be kept separate. Longer, however, than till after the holydays, he could not consent to postpone the consideration of this important question.Mr. Brougham
 rose to renew the notice which he had given in the last session of parliament of his intention to bring before the House the present state of the representation; and he now gave notice that he should submit a motion on that subject on Tuesday the 6th of June. As far as he could judge, that arrangement would not interfere with the other business of the House.Mr. Lambton
 was very anxious to know what the colonial funds in question were.Mr. Hume
 agreed with what had been stated by his noble friend respecting the distressed state of the country; and when the right hon. gentleman stated that only 5,000 persons had gone to the Cape of Good Hope, the House would see that by the regulations adopted it had been impossible for the distressed population to relieve themselves. It was impossible for them to pay any sum of money, however small; and therefore, if the means of emigration were not granted unconditionally, and as a boon, he feared they could not avail themselves of the opportunity afforded. He believed his noble friend was in possession of many communications, as he himself was, from persons who, though perfectly willing to emigrate, could not transport themselves, being destitute of all means whatever. He was confident that the subject required only to be brought forward by government in such a practical manner as to engage attention, and that a sum of money, comparatively small, would be productive of great benefit, since those who were removed would not only be relieved themselves, but would relieve those to whom they were at present a burthen.Mr. Finlay
 brought up the report of the Address on the King's Speech. Upon the motion, that it be read a second time,Sir E. Knatchbull
 said, he had searched the Journals of the House, and had found two precedents in former reigns wherein it had been the practice of the House to return thanks for the royal answer to the address presented to the throne by the first parliament of a new reign; therefore as hon. gentlemen had now heard read from the chair the most gracious answer of his present majesty, he should move "that an humble address be presented to his majesty returning the most humble thanks of this House for his most gracious answer to the address; and that such address be presented to his majesty by such members of this House as were members of his majesty's privy council."—The motion was agreed to.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was not entirely prepared to answer the question of the hon. gentleman. The subject was one which had long occupied the attention of his majesty's ministers. He was quite aware of its importance, but he apprehended that no general meausre could be brought in during the present session; some preliminary steps, however, might be taken.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that the appointment had already taken place several weeks ago.The Lord Advocate
 had no doubt but that he should be able to satisfy the House of the propriety of any measure of this sort which had been adopted, whenever the period arrived for its discussion.The Lord Advocate
 was not cognizant of the particular transaction to which the learned gentleman alluded; but it was in consequence of express representations that the business of the judges of the jury-courts had so much increased, that their office could not be carried on without an addition to their number that that addition had been made.The Lord Advocate
 after this information, should feel it his duty to bring the subject before the House; but at present he was not prepared to say whether he should do so by moving for a copy of the appointment, or for a vote of censure upon the adviser of such an appointment.Lord A. Hamilton,
 then gave notice, that he should move for a copy of the appointment on the 11th of May.Lord A. Hamilton
49 begged to be informed whether it was true that a new appointment had taken place, or was about
49Lord A. Hamilton
48 adverted to the great inconveniences under which the county of Surrey laboured, owing to the varying and uncertain state of weights and measures. He said that the city of London had formerly felt the great inconvenience and disadvantage of a similar state of things, and conceived that, acting under their own authority, they were capable of subdividing the standard measure in the Exchequer, and and of making those subdivisions the standards of weights and measures within their jurisdiction. Now, the county of
48Mr. H. Sumner
 was not at all surprised that the judges of the jury-court, as parties in the case, should have recommended the addition; and he grieved that an hon. and learned friend of his was at that time a member of that very court. He pledged himself, however, to prove, that a grosser job, a more palpable job, or one more outrageous to the feelings of a burthened public, had never been transacted, even in Scotland.Mr. Brougham
 wished to ask the learned lord one question about the filling up of an appointment. The learned lord had once in his place remarked, that some officers of the jury-courts of Scotland being thought necessary, their appointments could not be filled up until parliament met. In consequence, however, of their having discovered a very gross transaction, which he would not characterize in the language that it deserved, it appeared otherwise. Had an additional number of judges of the jury-courts been really appointed? For the transaction he spoke of was really one of the most outrageous and gross jobs that ever had been done.Mr. Brougham
 laid on the table a number of papers and reports connected with the commission to inquire into the receipt of fees, &c. in the courts of justice in Scotland. He moved they should be printed.Mr. H. Clive
 was exceedingly anxious that his noble friend should bring this motion under discussion, either by moving for a copy of the appointment, or by any other mode of proceeding which he might think proper. He greatly lamented that not one step had yet been taken to realize the suggestions of many of the most intelligent members of that committee.Sir John Newport
53 from his own personal observation, confirmed all that had been said in favour of the invention of Mr.
53Mr. Mills
5756clean."55 said, that the question which he now thought it his duty to bring under the consideration of the House was one of the greatest importance, and particularly to the House itself. He might be wrong in the course which he had proposed to himself to pursue; but if he was, the Speaker would no doubt instruct him what was the proper mode of bringing the matter forward. He repeated that he considered it as one in which the House was most deeply concerned. He had come to the determination of treating it as a breach of privilege; and would here very briefly state what were the facts. Seven persons had recently applied to him, in his official capacity of magistrate, for a warrant to take up a man stated to be then resident in Fleet-street, whose name was said to be George Edwards. He immediately went into a private examination of those individuals, with the assistance of a most able and worthy brother magistrate (sir W. Domville). Four of the parties deposed to some very material facts, some of which, affecting the safety of that House, he should now mention; but others, which were detailed at great length, were of too horrible a description for him to repeat. They involved a plot, not merely to effect the destruction of that House, and the hon. members within it, but of one of the highest personages in this kingdom, and
5756clean."55Mr. Alderman Wood
 observed, that the only question for the House to determine was, whether that which had been stated by the worthy alderman called upon them to take up the matter as a breach of privilege. The motion did not require any other reference to the circumstances which had been described by the worthy alderman than this—could those circumstances be construed into a breach of privilege? Now really he besought the House to consider what sort of precedent they would establish, if they acquiesced in the worthy alderman's motion. Here was a man, who, according to the worthy alderman, was an accomplice, or rather a principal, in the conspiracy for which several unfortunate persons had lately forfeited their lives. According to the worthy alderman, that man was deeply implicated in the crime for which those persons had suffered and if the motion was agreed to, he would be called to the bar to be examined on a charge of having committed a breach of privilege, when, if the allegations of the worthy alderman were borne out by the fact, he would be found to have committed an overt act of treason. If any other course could be adopted in which the case might be fairly investigated, he would concur in it; but if the worthy alderman really believed that the individual in question had projected the attempt against that House which had been described, he would recommend the worthy alderman to withdraw a motion for calling that individual to the bar, in the supposition that he would there charge himself with such an offence.Mr. Bathurst
 said, he certainly set out with intimating that he saw great difficulties in this question; and from his inexperience in that House it was naturally to be expected that he should feel that uncertainty, in a case of this kind, which those of greater parliamentary knowledge would not experience. He was, indeed, quite happy to hear the right hon. gentleman observe, that if the business were brought before the House properly, the House would properly entertain it. He thought it right to state that he had applied to another quarter, to get the individual in question prosecuted, but in that application he had been disappointed [Hear, hear!]]. He had already stated, that he did not think proper to read the answer which he had received when he had felt it his duty to carry the evidence which had been submitted to him, to the office of the home department. He was certainly not satisfied with that determination. Several of the deponents were persons not at all implicated in the late transactions; and their evidence was, in his opinion, fully sufficient to convict the person in question. Still, however, he had been told in another quarter, that it was not so, although the depositions contained matter, which, of course, he had not communicated to the House, but which would make them shudder if the heard it. The impression on his mind certainly was, that the accused person should be taken up. He took it for granted that the gentlemen opposite knew where that person was to be found, and that he could not escape. Having him in their possession—having it in their power to bring him forward, he thought they ought immediately to do so. Edwards was charged with being the sole promoter of the treasonable conspiracy which had been formed. It was declared to be his practice to lay hold of all the desperate characters whom he could find, and to bring them into his diabolical practices. He thought he could safely pledge himself to prove by indisputable evidence that Edwards was the sole plotter and founder of the Cato-street conspiracy. He had discharged his duty by bringing the subject under the consideration of the House. After what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman, he should certainly be disposed to withdraw his motion, although he was not prepared to propose any other course of proceedingMr. Alderman Wood
 expressed his willingness to withdraw the motion. He begged, however, to say, that he thought in the mariner in which he introduced it, he had avoided any thing justly exceptionable. He had abstained from reading the deposition, for he should be sorry that the dreadful allegations which it contained should at present go forth to the world; and he had therefore confined himself to a description of that part of it. which most nearly touched the House. At the present moment he was not prepared to bring the motion forward in another shape, but he thought he should do so in the course of a day or two, and that he should move for the appointment of a secret committee to investigate the case.Mr. Alderman Wood
l.l.64 said, that he would, on this occasion, merely move a series of resolutions relative to the civil list, on the understanding which had previously taken place, that the question should be discussed on the bringing up of the report on Friday next. He then moved, "That it is the opinion of this committee, that for the support of his majesty's household, and of the honour and dignity of the crown, there be granted
l.l.64The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, it was generally understood that, in the first instance, the resolutions would be agreed to without observation, leaving the discussion on them to a future period.—The number of members who had left the House clearly proved that this feeling generally prevailed.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l. fully understood, and so did the whole House, that the arrangement of the civil-list was to proceed on the basis of the act of 1816. That arrangement provided a sum of 1,063,000l.l.Colonel Davies
 said, that certain English allowances must be confirmed and continued; but still, after making the deductions alluded to by the hon. gentleman there would be a clear saving to the public, except so far as it might be deemed proper hereafter to make some alteration.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, his having fallen into this error was an additional argument in favour of delay. It showed how unprepared members were on this subject, and, he trusted, therefore that ministers would not press it forward.Colonel Davies
67 felt himself called on to draw the attention of the House to what had passed on a former occasion. He was the person who put certain questions to the chancellor of the exchequer. He asked, whether it was the right hon. gentleman's intention, previously to the introduction of the resolutions, to refer any papers to the House, as the ground-work of that which he meant to propose? The right hon. gentleman answered, that no such mode of proceeding was in contemplation, but that he meant at once to proceed by way of resolution, and by that means to point out to parliament the objects he had in view. He (Mr. T.) stated that it was a matter of great importance, and, therefore, he was desirous not to go to the detail unprepared. He, in consequence, suggested, that, when the resolutions were proposed, and the statement of the right hon. gentleman was laid before them, nothing should be done to provoke a debate, but that the House should merely be put in possession of the line which government intended to pursue-On this occasion, he confessed he felt disappointed that the right hon. gentleman had not declared the ground on which he meant to proceed, instead of proposing a resolution having for its object the application of a gross sum. In this state of things, no gentleman was bound to abstain from debating the question now; and he appealed to the other side of the House, as well as to his own, whether the understanding amounted to any thing more than he had stated. He regretted that the right hon. gentleman had not coupled his proposition with some statement of the grounds on which he meant to act. However, in agreeing to the resolution now, he did not consider himself bound to take any particular course at a future day. When that period arrived, it would be open to any gentleman to move an amendment, to the proposition of the chancellor of the exchequer. One question he would now ask. The civil list was, he understood, to be settled on the basis of the settlement of 1816. Were no other deductions to be made in the new arrangement but the sum applicable to the maintenance of the establishment at Windsor—the sum applicable to the privy
67Mr. Tierney
l.l.l. said, that the right hon. gentleman had accurately conceived the purport of the resolution before the House. It referred to the whole revenue granted in 1816, with the exception of the expense of the Windsor establishment, 60,000l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l. asked, what became of the sum of 58,000l.Mr. Tierney
 said, that the provision for her late majesty came from the consolidated fund, independent of the civil list.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the provision for the queen might be charged on the consolidated fund, in the same way as had been done with respect to her late majesty.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he was anxious to know what the views of ministers were on the whole subject, before he acted on a part of it, particularly on that part which he considered as by far the most critical. He spoke with reference to the queen. He wished to know in what proportion her majesty was to be provided for; he wished to know in what manner the gentlemen opposite meant to introduce that part of the civil list at all to their consideration. At that moment her income had wholly ceased, she had no subsistence. He did not mean to say any thing to promote premature discussion. He would not, at present, discuss so delicate a topic as that which he had glanced at, because it would be very embarrassing to him as well as to the House. At the same time, he feared that the course they were now pursuing would prevent him from introducing it at a future period. If he were called on to vote these resolutions to-day, and to debate them when the report was brought up, be might be told that that was the time for considering the details, and not for arguing on the merits and principles of the system. If, however, the whole subject would be open for discussion at a future period, lie had no objection to let the resolutions pass.Lord Archibald Hamilton
 expressed himself satisfied by this explanation.Lord A. Hamilton
68 said, that undoubtedly the noble lord would find every point connected with the arrangement of this question open to discussion, not, only with reference to form, but to sense and un-
68Mr. Canning
66 said, the general understanding of the House was, that these resolutions should pass without discussion, and that the debate should be taken on the report. He was aware, in strict argument, that there was nothing in this to bind gentlemen from considering the question; but if, on every occasion, the feeling and opinion of each individual in the House were to be taken on a point of this kind, there would be an end of courteous understanding and accommodation. He was sure the right hon. gentleman opposite would bear him out when he said that it was thought much more convenient not to take the debate in this stage of the proceeding. He was quite convinced that neither his right. hon. friend, nor any other person in the situation of a responsible minister, would offer, for permanent settlement, not a proposal of his own, but of those whom he had consulted, without giving a fair opportunity for the discussion of its merits. If there were gentlemen
66Mr. Canning
 disclaimed any intention of imputing the slightest blame to the worthy alderman. He certainly disagreed with the worthy alderman as to the expediency of his motion, but he saw nothing whatever to criticise in the manner in which it had been brought forward.Mr. Canning
63 said, that whatever might be the ultimate decision of the House on the subject, whether they would determine on entering into the investigation of it or not, there was one point on which all must agree, namely the inutility of discussing it at a time, and on a question, the decision of which could lead to no satisfactory result. The hon. and learned gentleman seemed to have collected what he was sure the House had not, namely, that there was a disposition on the part of some honourable members to treat the whole affair with levity and ridicule. Really he had not seen any such disposition. He was sure that no such disposition had been manifested, either by himself or his honourable friends about him. As little Could he plead guilty to the other charge, of a pre-disposition to accuse the hon. and learned gentleman of joining the popular cry against informers—a subject on which the hon. and learned gentleman had just made the most just and manly observations. He could assure the hon. and learned gentleman, that he never entertained such a pre-disposition; and if he had, it must have been entirely removed by the hon. and learned gentleman's candid statement of his opinion. On that statement, without wishing to add a single word to it, he was perfectly content to rest the defence, not only of the present or of any particular government, but of all governments that had ever existed in this or in any other civilized country, for taking the means which circumstances rendered necessary, to defeat
63Mr. Canning
626160 confessed that he wished the worthy alderman would take the advice of the right hon. gentleman rather than that of his hon. friend; and that he would withdraw his motion. But he begged to be by no means understood to join in the expression of levity, which, very much to his surprise and pain, had been drawn from some hon. members by the grave and extraordinary statements which had been made—statements which, in his opinion, were not at all of a character to provoke laughter. He was certainly not disposed to say that the present was precisely an occasion on which it was fitting for the House to resort to the law of privilege; but at the same time, if the
626160Mr. Brougham
72 rose to put his hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen, right. There were other branches of revenue, besides the hereditary revenues of the Crown, which he wished to see accounted for. The hereditary revenues, his hon. friend must be aware, his majesty had been graciously pleased to give up to the consideration of parliament. But there were others, such as the Scotch revenue, which was indeed very small, that had been alluded to by him. He conceived, as to the accommodation, that it was only a parliamentary mode of introducing the resolutions into the House, in order to get them printed. He approved of the proposal of the hon. baronet to have the report recommitted, but he considered himself bound not to object to the mode of proceeding at present proposed.72Mr. Brougham
54 wished that the subject should be treated upon as extended a basis as possible, and that provision should be made against a class of prisoners who had formerly taken the benefit of the act, though it was not intended for their relief; he meant those who were confined in consequence of actions for damages, having
54Mr. Lockhart
l.l.l.70l.69l.l. did not approve of the plan now proposed. In 1815-16, when an inquiry into the civil list was called for, it was shut out, and they were then told that a time would occur when it would be proper to investigate the hereditary revenues, and those branches over which the House had no control. The House had therefore a right to take into consideration the state of the king's separate hereditary revenue; the revenue, for instance, derived from Scotland, which produced 80,000l.l.l.70l.69l.l.Mr. Hume
59 as he understood from the
59Mr. Hume,
l. said, that the subject to which he had now to draw the attention of the House was one of serious importance. The House was no doubt aware, that, excepting in cases where death ensued, under the present law, a stage-coachman who drove furiously, to the imminent; hazard of life and limb, could scarcely be punished at all; where a coach was over-turned, and the passengers were so injured that death was the ultimate consequence, the punishment upon the proprietors was only a fine of 10l.Mr. M. A. Taylor
5251 said, it was in the recollection of many members, that during the session preceding the last, he had moved for a committee to inquire into the practicability of erecting steam engines and furnaces in such a manner as to relieve the places in which they were erected from the intolerable nuisance which their intense smoke had so generally produced to the health and comfort of the population of large cities and towns. That committee had been granted to him, and their report was in the possession of the House. If gentlemen would take the trouble of attending to its suggestions, they would find substantial reasons to be satisfied that such a very desirable improvement could be both easily and promptly effected. From, the manner in which these furnaces were erected, and increased as they were in number, London, Manchester, Liverpool, Birmingham, and other extensive cities and towns, were almost become uninhabitable [a laugh]. Gentlemen might laugh at the term, but he contended it was strictly true, as the persons engaged in business in these towns were actually compelled to guard the health of their families from the deleterious effects of the ebullitions of smoke issuing from those furnaces, by removing to hired houses at a distance from the place of their avocations. The whole of these dense ebullitions of smoke, which made the air of large places so unhealthy, and propagated fever and disease, principally arose from the furnaces as they were at present constructed. That such an evil could be corrected, and corrected without injury to the persons engaged in business connected with these steam engines, he was cer
5251Mr. M. A. Taylor
 seconded the motion, and bore his fullest testimony to the facts stated by his hon. friend, as to Mr. Parkes's manufactory at Warwick. He had seen three furnaces at work, and not the slightest appearance of smoke. He had no doubt that the public knowledge of the thing would of itself be sufficient to introduce the improvement into general practice, without the necessity of recourse to a declaratory law. He paid a high compliment to Mr. Parkes, for the merit of this important invention, which was remarkable for its simplicity. Of its successful result the public would soon have an opportunity of judging, by means of its introduction into the brewery of Messrs. Barclay and Co., and into other establishments in the metropolis. The country, he said, was much indebted to his hon. friend for bringing such questions before the legislature.Mr. Denman
 had also seen the manufactory of Mr. Parkes, and had admired the ingenious and at the same time effectual method in which the desirable object was accomplished. It would, he was satisfied, be generally adopted as soon as it was generally known.Sir C. Mordaunt
 thought, that as frequent opportunities ought to be given for discussing this subject, the report ought to be recommitted after the subject should have been debated. This was the only mode of doing justice to a question involving so many details. Great prejudice and injury to the public would arise from any other mode of proceeding. He certainly would have opposed the accommodation now acted upon, if he had been in the House when it was agreed to. Instead of considering this subject in a committee of the whole House, which the right hon. gentleman would not allow, all the papers and documents on the subject ought, in his opinion, to have been referred to a select committee.Sir H. Parnell
65 was of opinion, that the sum now proposed was too large to permit the House to come to a vote on it at once, as a mere matter of course. He conceived, that, before they were called on to grant such a sum, papers should be laid before the House for their information. It appeared to him that they did not possess that extent of knowledge on this subject which would enable them, in considering the question, to do their duty to the country. They were directed, by the Speech from the throne, to provide for the civil government, and for his majesty's household. They were also informed that the state of the hereditary revenues was to be considered by parliament. Now it appeared to him, that they ought not to discuss those important matters of finance without full information. They ought to know, specifically, what the expenses of the civil government amounted to. That would afford an excellent opportunity to the House for carrying into effect that retrenchment which was necessary in the present state of the finances of the country. With respect to the household, it was improper, he thought, to continue a system, against which so many objections had been made by the highest authority. When he said this, he need only allude to the celebrated speech of Mr. Burke. As to the hereditary revenues, it was a grave matter of consideration by what mode those revenues could be made productive. There was a considerable expenditure incurred in their collection, and opinions had been stated by the committee of finance, that the House had an opportunity of making great savings under that head. Other matters ought also to be brought under the consideration of the House; for instance, the revenues derivable from the duchy of Lancaster and the principality of Wales. All these matters should be locked into before the House did any thing with reference to these particular resolutions. He knew not what papers might be necessary to enable him to take a just view of the subject; but, undoubtedly, a considerable number was
65Sir H. Parnell
 moved for leave to bring in a bill to amend the Insolvent Debtors act. In the present stage he should only advert to two leading distinctions from the present bill which he intended to introduce; the first was, to empower commissioners out of court to inquire into the affairs of the debtor: and the second was, to grant creditors the power of compelling reluctant debtors, when imprisoned, to be released by the act.Lord Althorp
 presented a petition from the worsted manufacturers of Nottingham, against the duty imposed during die last parliament on the importation of Foreign Wool. The same feeling pervaded, he well knew, the West Riding of Yorkshire; but as the question would be most probably brought before the House in a definite shape for its repeal, all he would say at present was, that he considered the imposition of that duty as a most impolitic and cruel measure.Mr. Stuart Worthy
 observed, that the greater part of the information required by the hon. baronet was already before the House in different shapes, but it could not be collected and copied without such a loss of time as would be extremely inconvenient on a measure of so much importance and urgency. For the purpose of economical reduction, he could not see why it was necessary to enter now into a full examination of the official establishments paid out of the civil list. Many other offices came under the head of civil contingencies, which were annually brought before parliament. As to the report of 1815, he thought there could be no difficulty in obtaining a sufficient number of copies of it to inform all who would be willing to go through its voluminous details, and he did not think it necessary to reprint it. He moved the previous question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
75 said, that it would be impossible to come to a vote on the resolutions of the chancellor of the exchequer
75Mr. Tierney
 hoped that the hon. baronet would not withdraw his motion, and give way, unless the chancellor of the exchequer would undertake that the report of 1815 should be reprinted. He believed it contained all the information required by this motion.Mr. Calcraft
 observed, that when the question was brought before the House in the definite manner to which allusion had been made, he was sure it would receive the fullest consideration. He had, however, in answer to the argument of the noble lord, who contended, that as a measure of revenue, it had wholly failed, to say, that it had not yet been fairly tried. It came partially into operation in October last, was only extended in January, while at the time there was a large stock of foreign wool in the market.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 supposed, that the question would be set at rest before gentlemen had that report in their hands. They were to decide first, and have the report afterwards. Besides, he wished for additional information. He wanted to know what had been done since 1816.Mr. Tierney
82l.,81de novo, admitted that where no application for assistance was made by the Crown, it was not customary to inquire into the civil list expenditure. The speech of the right hon. gentleman was, however, one of the most extraordinary he had ever heard, because he stated the case as if there was a civil list in existence—the question being, how to form a civil list? They were not now dealing with a civil list actually in being—they were called on, 82l.,81de novo,Mr. Tierney
 said, it seemed to be the intention of his majesty's ministers, at the commencement of a new reign, to take as a model in the arrangement of the civil list, the arrangement made five years ago, notwithstanding all the changes which had since taken place, and without consenting to any inquiry on the subject. That was certainly not his view of the way in which the House of Commons, at a time of such extreme pressure, ought to perform its duty to the country. He did not know whether the hon. gentleman's motion was that which was best calculated to obtain the desired information (although it appeared to him to be a very fair and proper one), but he was perfectly satisfied that the House of Commons would not do its duty, if it consented to any proposition for the permanent establishment of a civil list without any further inquiry.Lord John Russell
79l. opposed the motion. The documents called for could not, he said, be useful to the hon. gentleman for the object he had in view. The act of 1816 required that, if there was an additional charge on the civil list exceeding the estimate by the sum of 16,00079l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
in limine,l.l.l. called on the right hon. gentleman to point out where one account connected with the civil list receipts and expenditure since 1816 was to be found. He thought it was most unfair to refuse this information, since individuals would not, hereafter, be able to alter the arrangement, as they might now do, if they were in possession of those accounts. The system had been changed by two acts of parliament; but ministers did not always keep within the letter of those acts. According to the report of 1815, the sum of 3,747,000in limine,l.l.l.Mr. Hume
ll. proceeded to make his second motion. He avowed that his intention was, that the details of the last year's expenditure should be laid on the table, in order that the absurdity of many of the items might be shown. Was it not fitting that the House, in the present distressed state of the country, should have every information on the subject, when among the items were such sums in the 7th class as 1,372ll.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.85l. said, he would not go on with the remaining motions of a similar nature which he held in his hand; he must, however, again state, that the accessible accounts on the subject took weeks and months to understand, although a single hour's labour on the part of the clerks would obviate that inconvenience. The motion which be was now about to make was of a very different nature. It was surely most important, when the House were called upon to vote a civil revenue to his majesty for the support of the royal household, that they should know what sums his majesty had at his disposal, over and above all parliamentary grants. The amount of the reserved hereditary revenue of the crown in Scotland, taken on the average of the la6t three-or four years, amounted to 110,000l.l.l.85l.Mr. Hume
l. said, that the right hon. gentleman had observed, that the division of the civil list, in different classes in 1816, had prevented any exceeding. He did not seem to recollect, that, in 1786, there were different classes, which did not prevent an excess. At that time, the expenditure exceeded the estimate by 124,000l.Mr. Hume
7877llll76 said, he was anxious to submit to the House a motion respecting the expenses of the Civil List; and, in the outset, he was able to state, that the objections which the chancellor of the exchequer had made to the proposition of the hon. baronet, would not at all apply to any one of the motions he meant to offer. The House, he was persuaded, from what he had observed this day, would be desirous to obtain all the information possible respecting the income which his late majesty possessed; not only with respect to what parliament granted as a civil list, but also with reference to other exclusive and reserved revenues. The House was aware that in the report now ordered to be printed there was a statement of the total receipts and expenditure of the civil list, from the accession of his late majesty to the month of January, 1815. The object of one of his motions was, to complete that return, and to produce what did not appear from any papers before the House—a return of the expenditure from the 5th of January, 1815, to the 5th of Ja-
7877llll76Mr. Hume
80l. said, that the right of calling on ministers, under all circumstances, to produce accounts which the hon. gentleman seemed to think existed, was a new doctrine in parliament. He could quote a very high authority on this subject, that of the late Mr. Fox, who had distinctly stated, that, unless the Crown came to parliament for assistance in aid of the civil list, gentlemen were not at liberty to call for an account of its application and expenditure. They had just been told that the estimate had not been exceeded since the last arrangement; and the hon. gentleman observed, that he did not know whether it had or not. A specific allowance had been granted for the support of the king's household; and in the event of an excess beyond that allowance to the amount of 16,00080l.Mr. Huskisson
l74 rose, to move for certain papers connected with the Civil List, under a conviction that, if the subject were thoroughly examined, a considerable sum might be saved to the country. The present was the only opportunity of enforcing a strict inquiry, because the House was aware that, as soon as the bargain had been completed, the answer would be ready, that the matter was concluded, and that no farther investigation could be had. He was anxious that the report of 1815 should be laid upon the table, that all members might be put in possession of the nature of the settlement of the civil list in the year following: if it could be reprinted, it would be a still greater advantage, as it formed the basis of the present plan. In addition, he wished for papers to show what increase had been made to the civil
l74Sir H. Parnell
 added, that he would not trouble the House to divide, if that report were reprinted.Sir H. Parnell
73 said, that he also had a petition to present from the merchants, manufacturers, and others interested in the wool trade of Leeds and its neighbourhood, against the wool tax, and praying for its repeal. The character and respectability of the signatures to that petition were the best evidence of the pressure of the evil against which they petitioned. The petition had not originated at a public meeting, because the persons who were most solicitous to press the repeal of that impolitic duty, wished to avoid any course likely to increase the ferment and agitation which existed on this subject in the West Riding of Yorkshire. The tax of which they complained, was not only in contradiction of every principle of political economy, but was directly contrary to that fundamental system of policy which for years had prevailed in this country, and to the continuance of which the faith of parliament was pledged—pledged, he would say, by the immemorial policy of its government—a policy which every statesman who viewed the question would see was the unfailing source of wealth and power. When he reflected also that that duty was imposed on the raw material, the manufacture of which constituted the employment of a great population then suffering under the severest pressure of distress and penury, he must add, that such a measure was not alone impolitic, but cruel and unfeeling. He could moreover state, that as a measure of revenue, it had alto-
73Lord Milton
83 declared, that he very much doubted if the present circumstances of the country were such as to justify the establishment of a permanent civil list In the present state of our currency, it was impossible for any man to say what was the real value of a pound sterling, or what alteration the execution of the measures agreed to by parliament last year might cause in that value. He would, therefore, almost say, that no permanent civil list establishment ought at present to be formed; but, at least, the House ought maturely to consider on what basis that establishment ought to be constructed. It was half a century since the subject
83Lord Milton
 admitted that after the presentation of the petition, some inquiry into the state of the bridge was necessary, although he believed it was not in the state of danger described.Sir W. Curtis,
 said, it was highly necessary either that the worthy baronet or some other member should bring the subject before the House, as unless something was promptly introduced a most serious damage would be done to the navigation of the river below the bridge.Mr. F. Lewis
 said, he should consult with the trustees and other parties interested, and bring the subject subsequently under the consideration of parliament.Sir W. Curtis
 said, an inquiry had been going on for some time by the trustees; but he thought his hon. colleague had best leave the introduction of the subject of bringing it before parliament to one of the gentlemen who presented petitions against the present state of the bridge. As one of the trustees of the bridge in right of his corporate character, he declared himself quite prepared for inquiry.Mr. Alderman Wood
92 thought something that essentially affected the fact was kept out of
92Mr. Calvert
 assured his hon. friend, that the city had no interest in the water-works, except a small rent, which they would not hesitate to give up.Mr. Alderman Wood
94d. thought, that a more important subject could not be brought under the consideration of the House. He could not, entirely unconnected as he was with the wool-trade, or with persons embarked in that trade, allow the present opportunity to pass, without saying that he considered this most ancient and valuable manufacture to be in very imminent danger. It could hardly be expected of him to speak more particularly to the subject. He was not exactly prepared to say whether the manufactures of the country could or could not bear this duty of 694d.Mr. Baring
 begged to bear his testimony to the very liberal spirit in which the noble lord met the suggestions of his majesty's government, as to the constitution of the committee.Lord Binning
 adverting to the conversation which had taken place a few evenings ago in the House on the subject of the appointment of a fourth baron of the exchequer in Scotland, observed, that when the vacancy in question occurred, he had been required, in the discharge of his official duty, to make a report, on the recommendation of the commissioners, on the courts of justice in scotland, to abstain from filling up any such vacancy that might occur after that recommendation. In order the better to enable himself to execute this task, he had submitted the subject to the consideration of the highest law authorities in Scotland, namely, the lord president of the court of session, the lord justice clerk, the lord chief commissioner of the jury court, and the lord chief baron of the exchequer. Those high authorities were unanimous in their opinion as to the expediency of filling up the vacancy. He was solicitous that the House should be put in possession of tin's report; not because it stated the opinion of the humble individual who addressed them, but because it comprehended the opinion of the highest legal authorities in Scotland on the subject. He would therefore move, "That an address be presented to his majesty, praying that he would be graciously pleased to order that there be laid before the House a Copy of the report made by the lord advocate of Scotland on the recommendation contained in the sixth Report of the commissioners on the courts of justice in Scotland, regarding the discontinuance of one of the Barons of the Court of Exchequer in Scotland."The Lord Advocate,
 said, that the hon. and learned gentleman spoke as if his learned friend had himself originated the inquiry. It was not so. His learned friend had acted only ministerial. The secretary of state having required a report from his learned friend on the recommendation of the commissioners, he had done his duty by appealing on the subject to the highest law authorities of Scotland.Lord Binning
 said, that he did not rise to oppose the motion; indeed, he had not, with the exception of a slight alteration, any objection to produce the whole of the accounts moved for. He could not, however, help complaining of the uncandid manner in which the hon. member had charged both the governor of Gibraltar and his majesty's council, in the course of his speech, with extravagance and extortion. He did not wish, at present, to go at length into this question, as a proper period would arrive for its discussion. But he hoped members would reserve their opinions until that discussion came fairly before them. With respect to what the hon. member had said relative to the right of the Crown over conquered colonies, he conceived that there was no principle of the law of nations more generally admitted than that which transferred to the conquering sovereign the rights exercised over such colony by that power to which it previously belonged. He did not mean to object to the first or second resolutions; but to the third, he would, if it were not altered, propose an amendment, which was, that the whole account for the time mentioned should be produced, without specifying the items from year to year. He wished at the same time to observe, that there was not any foreign port in which similar duties to those complained of were not exacted. The right hon. member made some observations relative to certain sums remitted from Gibraltar, and received by his late majesty.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
95 said, that having been given to understand that there would be no objection to his motion for the re-appointment of a select committee, to take into consideration the various petitions presented from the royal burghs of Scotland, praying for municipal reformation, he should abstain from offering any observations in support of his motion, taking it for granted that the House concurred in the propriety of the course he was adopting. The report of the last parliament was before the House, and he had only to refer to the information it contained, in order to prove the importance of the measure. If it happened that any hon. gentleman either from reading the report, or from any other cause, should offer any opposition to the motion, he then trusted he should be heard in reply, with the view as far as he was able, to remove the objections. He could assure the House, that the question had excited, and continued to excite, the greatest anxiety throughout that part of the country. Though the list of the committee which he had to propose was not exactly what he wished. As one name had been objected to by his majesty's ministers, yet he was determined to make no opposition to the alteration. The noble lord concluded with moving, that the petitions presented from the royal burghs of Scotland, in the years 1818–19–20, praying
95Lord A. Hamilton
103 complained of the uncandid course that had been taken by the hon. gentleman in bringing forward this question. He protested against the statement which he had made, and which tended to impeach the character of individuals, when merely moving for a return, of the amount of revenue raised at Gibraltar. He protested against such a course, because those charges could not be contradicted at the moment. He hail no difficulty in saying, that, throughout the long reign of his late majesty, every disposition had been shown to attendee the interests of the inhabitants on the one hand, and to support the just rights of
103Mr. Goulburn
 in explanation, observed, that it was substantially the same thing. From whatever source the inquiry proceeded, it was evident that the act of government was in hostility to the opinion of the commissioners. He begged, however, to be distinctly understood, that nothing could be more foreign to his intention than to intimate any thing that was not entirely respectful to the learned lord.Mr. Abercromby,
96 rose, not to oppose the motion, but to express his extreme regret that, when a report had been made by commissioners appointed by that House, expressing the opinion of those commissioners, that the office in question should, in the event of a vacancy, not be 611ed up, his majesty should nevertheless have
96Mr. Abercromby
104 said, he had, in order to meet the objection of the chancellor of the exchequer, made the alteration which he had suggested in the third motion. That alteration had, however* defeated a very considerable part of the object he had in view, which was, to ascertain the annual amount of revenue collected in a
104Mr. Hume
101100l.ad libitum,l.99l.l.98l.l.l.97l. before he proceeded to the motion of which he had given notice, wished to correct a mistake that had occurred with reference to one of his statements yesterday evening. He had said that in the seventh class of the civil list in 1815, there was to be found an: expenditure which he had characterised as useless, namely, the sum of 1,372101100l.ad libitum,l.99l.l.98l.l.l.97l.Mr. Hume,
 presented a petition from the Middlesex watermen of the river Thames, complaining of the great insecurity of London Bridge, the danger that attended life and property, and the interruption it gave to the navigation of the river.Mr. S. Whitbread
93 rose, for the purpose of presenting a petition from the manufacturers and merchants concerned in the wool trade of the city of London. Adverting to the duty which was imposed upon foreign wool in the course of last year, the hon. gentleman observed that it appeared to him, from the very first, a proceeding of an unwise and impolitic nature, considering that the manufacturing interest of this country was at that time involved in great distresses, and that a very large number of individuals were suffering under heavy difficulties and privations. He had always felt the truth of the maxim, that the imposition of a new duty upon the raw material was a measure never justifiable, except when the trade was in a flourishing condition. The resolutions which had been founded upon these considerations, and transmitted to his majesty's ministers, were such as, he thought, would make out a very strong case. It was evident that the great price of the raw article would enhance the price of the manufacture in proportion; whereas a fall, such as would be occasioned by the withdrawing of the duty, would enable us to meet the competition of foreign markets. It was very true, as had been stated, that a great number of merchants in the city had refused the order which was transmitted to England for the clothing of the Russian army. The more he had extended his observations, the more information he had been enabled to collect upon the subject, he was so much the more convinced that this tax must operate like a mill-stone round the neck of the manufacturer. He implored his majesty's ministers to consider the state of the country, the condition of the manufacturing classes; and to reflect with how much better grace it would come from them to repeal this tax in pity to
93Mr. T. Wilson
 said, that he intended to follow up the petition, according to the prayer contained in it, by calling the serious attention of the House to the subject. But he should let the petition rest at present, until the House was in possession of numerous others upon the same subject, which he expected would be forwarded from all parts of the country.Mr. Wilson
 said, the inhabitants of Gibraltar were, for the most part, Roman Catholics, Genoese, or foreigners of that description, and Jews; an extensive church was not, therefore, necessary. But there was a Protestant place of worship, and he had attended church for two years. In that edifice there was no want of room for those who pleased to attend divine service. He did not think that the garrison of Gibraltar would thank the hon. gentleman, if they were hurthened with a tax for the erection of a church. There were other inaccuracies in the statement of the hon. gentleman, which, at a proper period, he would point out.Colonel Dalrymple
102 having had occasion to know something of the administration of affairs in Gibraltar, and being acquainted with certain circumstances relating to the mode of making impositions on the inhabitants, could not but say that their rights had not been treated with that regard and respect which in justice should have been extended to them. At the same time, he meant to admit, that his majesty's government, in the revision of the Order in council, to which allusion had been made; had manifested a very commendable anxiety to do all they could to rectify a measure which he looked upon as improvident and bad; He could not, however, agree in the interpretation of the law of nations: which had been given by the right hon. gentleman and which, falling from a per-
102Sir J. Mackintosh,
 supported the necessity of an inquiry into the constitution of the court of exchequer in Scotland. It was evident that the information which was to be afforded on the subject, was absolutely forced from government by the observations made by his noble friend.Sir J. Newport
l.l. rose to state some facts which had come under his own knowledge respecting the droits of the Crown in conquered colonies. In Trinidad, the owners of land had been required to take out new grants for their lands, with burthens attached to which they had never before been subject. He saw by the Trinidad gazette that 4,800 acres of land were offered, to sale on the part, of the Crown, being confiscated under the new regulation. These confiscations had taken place in the only two parishes which had yet been surveyed for the purposes of the new regulation, out of the 32 parishes in the island. If the others yielded confiscations in the same proportion, there would be 155,000 acres in the whole island. What this land would sell for it was not easy to ascertain; if for 4l.l.Mr. Marryat
148 said, it was his intention to detain the House only for a few moments.
148Mr. Wynn
153l.,152l.,l.l.151l.ad captandum150 said, that after all which had been heard from time to time on the subject of economy, after the many promises which had been made, it might have been reasonably supposed that the present period would be one when something would be done for the benefit of the people. If such a supposition had been entertained, was it not, he would ask, borne out by the promises of Mr. Perceval at the commencement of the regency, and by the statements (he would not call them pledges) of the noble lord opposite, in 1816, that the demise of the Grown would be the proper period for such a measure as was now proposed? But, at the arrival of that period, it was little to be expected that the surveyor, of woods and forests, and the paymaster of the forces would be found to say that it was a matter of delicacy now, and ought not to be entered into. Nevertheless, the fact seemed to be, that at the period that those promises were given and those hopes held out, no revision or alteration was intend-
153l.,152l.,l.l.151l.ad captandum150Mr. Macdonald
159 contended, that it was a fallacy to say that the motion of the hon. and learned gentleman was a motion merely to obtain information; The object of the motion was not merely to inquire into the amount of the droits of the Admiralty and the other funds, but to re-
159Mr. Bathurst
157l.,l.l.156l.155 said, he would make a few observations on the state of the question, and the engagement to which voting on one side or the other would pledge the members of the House. He could assure the House and the gentlemen opposite, who were so anxious to bring this debate to a conclusion, that he should not detain them long. After the able speech of his hon. and learned friend, in which the whole facts and law of the case had been stated and supported; after the speech of the right hon. gentleman opposite, and the reply of his hon. and learned friend near him, the merits of the question required no farther discussion. He rose, therefore, not to add any thing to what had been already said on the question itself, but to set members right on the real purport of the motion. The House, then, was now called upon at the beginning of a new reign, to make a final arrangement of the civil list for the whole of that reign. On such an occasion it was necessary to make the most minute inquiry, and to exert the most scrupulous caution to make the arrangement as wise and proper as it would be lasting. When a new settlement was proposed, it was incumbent on the House to take into consideration all the funds at present at the disposal of the Crown, in order to know what charges should be made before that settlement was effected. If they now neglected to do so, another opportunity would not again occur during the reign. When a motion like this should be afterwards brought forward, it would be sufficient to say, that the matter had been already settled, and thus alt further consideration of it would be shut out. The proposed resolution went no further than this, that it was expedient to take into consideration the droits of the Admiralty, the 4½ per cent colonial duties, and other funds usually at the disposal of the Crown, with the making of such an arrangement concerning them as would be consistent with the maintenance of the dignity of the Crown, and the interests of the country. Those, therefore, who should vote for his hon. and learned friend's motion would pledge themselves to no principle on the subject—they would merely express an opinion that the system formerly acted upon, now that a new arrangement was to be made, ought to be taken into consideration. Any gentleman who voted against it would say by his vote, that parliament ought to give the subject
157l.,l.l.156l.155Mr. Tierney
158l.l.l. said, he had not intended to address the House on the question had it not been for some observations of the right hon. gentleman. The House would see, in the contrariety of the opinions of the hon. gentlemen opposite, what good a committee was likely to do. Three or four of these hon. gentlemen had spoken on this question, and none of them could be brought to see it in the same light. They all disagreed, not only, with his side of the House, but with themselves. Ministers proposed to continue a system which had been four years in operation, and which was better understood by experience than any of the new-fashioned, new-fangled plans of the gentlemen opposite. It possessed about it some of the venerable characters of antiquity. This system had been shown to be good on a four years trial. It was framed on a scale of reduction to the amount of 135,000158l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
138summum bonum137136135l.134133§l.l.:l.;l.l;l.l.132131130129128 began by observing, that if any stranger had entered the House during the last few sentences of the hon.
138summum bonum137136135l.134133§l.l.:l.;l.l;l.l.132131130129128Mr. Canning
 admitted that the explanation made the argument quite different; but the reference to the Smyrna fleet appeared to him to go a little further.Mr. Canning
139 explained, that the right hon. gentleman must have misapprehended him, or, in common policy, he would not have so far misrepresented what he had said. He had not supposed that the droits occasioned war. No king nor House of Commons would ever be so mad as to go to war for the sake of droits of the Admiralty. What he had said, and
139Mr. Brougham
127126l.125†124l.123122121l.l.l.l.;l.l.,l.l.l.,l.120l.l.l.119l.118l.l.d.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.117116l.115non plusl.l.114minutié113l.112trove,ex necessitate rei,111pro tanto,110109multum vexata questio108dictumterre tenant,jure coronœ.sacra patrimonia coronœ:jure coronœ107†106 said, that in rising to bring before the House the important subject of which he had given notice,—important, in so far as it was inseparably connected with the question of the civil list,—he trusted they would give him credit, when he assured them it was very far from his intention to trespass more than was absolutely necessary upon their time and attention. They would be the more disposed so to give him credit, when he begged leave to remind them that the bringing forward this question upon the present occasion was in reality none of his seeking. But he stood pledged to submit it to their consideration, and particularly] by what passed in 1812, in case his majesty's ministers should think proper to omit it in their arrangements. He appealed to the recollection of honourable gentlemen, whether he had not given that notice, or rather whether he had not been driven
127126l.125†124l.123122121l.l.l.l.;l.l.,l.l.l.,l.120l.l.l.119l.118l.l.d.s.l.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.117116l.115non plusl.l.114minutié113l.112trove,ex necessitate rei,111pro tanto,110109multum vexata questio108dictumterre tenant,jure coronœ.sacra patrimonia coronœ:jure coronœ107†106Mr. Brougham
163162tirade,161160decus,tutamen, rose to reply. He said he should be the less excusable in farther trespassing on the indulgence of the House, both because he had occupied so much of their time in opening the question, and because so little had been urged on the other side; and that little had been so triumphantly answered by his hon. friend near him (sir J. Mackintosh), and on the bench behind (Mr. Macdonald). He could, not retort upon the gentlemen opposite the sarcasm of the chancellor of the exchequer, on him and his friends that they differed from one another and from themselves, each varying from his fellow, and no one consistent with himself. The minister had found out the most easy and effectual method of protecting themselves from such a sneer—at least, from the greater part of it—a method as obvious as it was simple, and as efficacious as it was obvious; it consisted in none of them speaking at all except one. Accordingly all kept silence, save the president of the board of control, and. be not being in a condition to differ with his companions, had only been able to exemplify the other branch of his friend's zeal by contradicting himself. But the silence of some gentlemen on this occasion surprised and disappointed him more than that of others. Upon a great, legal, and constitutional question—one touching the rights of the sovereign, and involving at every turn, as was said, the honour and dignity of the throne, how happened it that the House lacked the two chief law officers of the Crown, the attorney and solicitor-general—the props and pillars of the prerogative—the sworn defenders of the sanctuary—the 163162tirade,161160decus,tutamen,Mr. Brougham
 presented a petition, signed by upwards of 6,000 persons, chiefly clothiers, clothworkers and manufacturers of Wiltshire (as a proof of the respectability of whom, the hon. member said, that among the names were those of eleven magistrates, one of whom was the chairman of the quarter sessions), complaining of the number of manufacturers who, in consequence of the introduction of machinery and other causes, had been driven out of work, and were compelled to have recourse for subsistance to the parochial rates. He could assure the House that this petition did not proceed from any political motive. There was no radical feeling in Wiltshire. Among the manufacturers of that county, numerous as they were, there existed no inclination to encourage sedition, or to obtain a remedy for the evils which they suffered, except by legal means. He hoped, therefore, that this petition would be favourably received by the House; and, however difficult the subject, that the House would feel the necessity of taking every possible means of mitigating the distress experienced, not only by the petitioners, but by the agricultural labourers, who looked to parliament for some alleviation of their case.—The petition was ordered to be printed.Mr. Benett
 highly approved of what had been said by his hon. and learned friend concerning the expedition of sir Home Popham. Adverting to the subject of the civil-list, the hon. gentleman observed, that he conceived it a settled custom to arrange it at the commencement of a new reign. Such an arrangement of it had been contemplated by the commit* tee of 1816. Those, therefore, who opposed on the present inquiry occasion differed from the recommendation of that committee. Nothing was proposed by the present motion but an examination which the report then made contemplated, and he therefore called upon the authors of that report to support his hon. and learned friend.Mr. W. Smith
147l.146145144l.l.l.,143142141140 said, that if he chose his station in debate otherwise than from a sense of duty, most assuredly he should not have taken the station which brought him so nearly into contact with the great and powerful speech of the statesman and lawyer who introduced the subject, nor that which called upon him to reply to the eloquence and talents of his right hon. friend who had just sat down. Considering the speech of his hon. and learned friend as consisting wholly of reason and knowledge, and entirely free from objections usually made in that House—considering that it discussed exclusively a great and grave question of state policy, without turning it at all into a means of acquiring popularity or an instrument of inflammation, he could not regard the observations which he was now to attempt to answer but as ingenious fallacies. One of the topics urged by his right hon. friend—he could not call it argument, although it was a topic often used with effect, and its general effect he did not wish to lessen—was the reverence for feudal monarchy and gothic government, the charge of stripping the Crown of its trappings, and the monarch of his dignity. This topic was inapplicable altogether on the present occasion; for the speech of his hon. and learned friend expressed as strong a regard for the law, for the constitution, for the honour and dignity of the Crown, as any speech that had ever been Uttered in that House. His right hon. friend ought to view feudal monarchy as connected with all its evils, with the baneful and oppressive evils which were gradually removed during four centuries—from Magna Charta to the statute of Wards and Liveries. This was the olden time so warmly eulogized! This was an attempt at celebrating the golden age of old times, which he thought more suitable to a venerable major nut of doors, than to his right hon. friend [a laugh and cheers]. The bold
147l.146145144l.l.l.,143142141140Sir James Mackintosh
 agreed with the hon. and learned mover, in the account he had given of the Souchong and Congo expedition of a gallant admiral. He always rejoiced at an opportunity of supporting ministers; but on the present occasion, unless the chancellor of the exchequer or any of his hon. friends around him could give a better reason than had hitherto been assigned for the grant to that gallant admiral, he should vote for the motion.Sir Joseph Yorke
 concurred with his hon. and learned friend who had made the motion, that there was not an officer engaged in the capture of the Spanish vessels who did not think his professional character tarnished by the transaction. He might mention another evil arising out of these captures before a declaration of war. After the peace of Amiens an order was given to seize and detain French vessels, and the consequence was, that the French government retaliated by detaining all the English who were at the time within the dominions of France. This measure of the French government was by many justified, on the ground that it was a proper return for such previous treatment. The gallant general concluded by saying that he should vote for the motion [The cry of "Question!" became general].Sir Robert Wilson
149 said, that as he considered that the power which the present system would give to the Crown was open to great abuse, he should vote for the resolutions. With respect to the revenue of four-and-half per cent, it was said that it was intended for the service of the colonies, the erection of fortifica-
149Sir J. Newport
186 argued, that the right hon. gentleman had made liberal admissions,
186Mr. Philips
 stated, in answer, that he did not know if to be the intention of his majesty's government to take any such step. The notice, of the noble lord might therefore stand as proposed.Mr. Robinson
182181180"How small of all the ills which men endure, The part which Kings or Lords can cause or cure."179178177176175174173172171†170169s.l.d.sl.168167166 said, he had the honour to rise for the purpose of presenting from a most extensive and respectable body, the merchants of London. Whether he adverted to the terms, in which their petition was couched, to the respectability? of the gentlemen by whom it was signed, or if the peculiar circumstances of the country
182181180"How small of all the ills which men endure, The part which Kings or Lords can cause or cure."179178177176175174173172171†170169s.l.d.sl.168167166Mr. Baring
 said, that after the able and eloquent speech of his hon. friend, it would be idle in him to attempt entering into the subject. But as it was a subject upon which he had before delivered his opinions, he hoped he might be allowed to express his opinion upon it now; and he assured the House that in doing so he should not take up much of their time. He begged then to state, that he gave his humble, but most hearty concurrence in every principle contained in the petition, and so ably advocated by the hon. mover; and he begged to add, that in the House, or out of the House, he would give its principles his most zealous and active co-operation.Mr. Grenfell
 considered the difference in this respect as more theoretical than it I would be found in practice. He had never found the variation to be so great as was apprehended; and as, upon his hon. friend's own admission, the payments in both metals would afford a facility which could not be other wise acquired, bethought that plan preferable.Mr. Baring
221l.220l.l.219l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.,l.218l.l.l.l.l.l.217l.l.l.216l.l.l.215l.,l.,l.l.l.l.,214l.213l.,l.212l. said, that this discussion came on under circumstances of a nature perfectly unparalleled. It regarded the appropriation of a sum of 850,000221l.220l.l.219l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.,l.218l.l.l.l.l.l.217l.l.l.216l.l.l.215l.,l.,l.l.l.l.,214l.213l.,l.212l.Mr. Tierney
l226l. denied that he had wished to examine into the mode in which the privy purse was expended. As he did not intend to trouble the House with his motion to-morrow, he might be allowed to add, though not within the strict limits of explanation, that, from the statement of the right hon. gentleman, it appeared that the 110,000l226l.Mr. Tierney
 after complimenting the petitioners and different members of the House, for the liberal ideas which they had expressed, entered into some statements as to the commercial advantages which this country enjoyed from its colonies. By the restrictions imposed on them, and the manner in which the intercourse was carried on with them, they were made to contribute most largely towards the prosperity of the mother country: they were limited to an intercourse with us alone: their produce was imported in British ships, and paid for in British manufactures.Mr. Marryat,
197196s.l.l.s.l.s.l. said, that there was one point of importance on which he had the misfortune totally to differ with his hon. friend (Mr. Ricardo); on that point, as on every other, he would differ with him with reluctance and with diffidence. When his hon. friend stated that the difference in the currency was but as 3197196s.l.l.s.l.s.l.Mr. Baring
l.l.l.200l.l.199l. said, that before he moved the second reading of the resolutions, he should shortly explain the circumstances under which they were offered to their consideration. In doing so, he should have lamented if it had been necessary to trouble the House with that infinite mass of voluminous details which at former times it had been necessary to investigate. The object of those who had on former occasions offered those details to parliament was, either to explain the manner in which deficiencies had arisen in the civil list, and to exculpate those who had had the management of it, or to form the ground of some new system. Neither of those causes now called upon him for any observations He had no deficiencies to account for, because none had occurred since the last arrangement of the civil list, and he had no new system to propose, because the system then adopted had been found perfectly effectual. In comparing that last establishment in 1816, with the former arrangements, it was necessary to remark that at four former times had parliament made payment of the debts of the civil list, and four times without accounts or investigation on the mere statement of the fact in a message from the Crown—and thus four times had voted a permanent increase of the civil list. In 1782, a very considerable improvement in the civil list arrangements took place, and permanent rules were laid down for the administration its revenues. It was thus the civil list charges were divided into classes, to be paid in regular succession, and on this principle it was hoped that such, a system of economy would be carried into practice, as would prevent the recurrence of embarrassments. If Mr. Burke, the illustrious author of that bill, had gone a little farther, his hopes would probably have been well founded; but though he divided the ordinary expenditure into classes, a power was given to make occasional payments to any amount. Though no limits were set to the contingent expenses, there was no deficiency in the civil list thenceforward, till the breaking out of the French war—but after that; all the contingent expenses were so increased, that there was an arrear of 900,000l.l.l.200l.l.199l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
204203l.l.,l.l.202201 said, it was with considerable pain, that, on an occasion of a grant such as the present, he felt it his duty to move that this report be taken into further consideration at a future day. This he did with the view of its coming before a select committee. It would have given him much pleasure if his majesty's ministers had taken this latter part of the task upon themselves, because it would best have come from them. He felt, also, doubts of the success of his motion, when he found that neither the learning, the wit, nor the eloquence of his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Brougham) were successful in an appeal on the subject the other evening. His motion, however, had one advantage which did not belong to that which was submitted by his hon. and learned friend—that it was not complex in its nature, nor intricate in the immediate question to which it referred. The question to which he wished to call the attention of the House was simply this—whether they, the representatives of the people, just returned from the people, with their professions and promises still on their lips, would, in a new parliament, take estimates into which they had made no inquiry, on which they
204203l.l.,l.l.202201Lord John Russell
 in explanation, stated that he had never imagined that the currency had never been depreciated more than 4 per cent. He had merely contended, that at the time when the subject was taken up by parliament in the last year, there was only that depreciation; which was too small to warrant an alteration of the ancient standard. He was well aware that during some of the latter years of the war, the depreciation had been as great as 25 per cent.Mr. Ricardo,
 said, he would take that opportunity of making an observation as to the two standards of gold and silver. He fully agreed with his hon. friend, that a payment in both would facilitate the payment of the public creditor; but then there was a question whether two stand ards would not be more liable to fluctuation than one invariable standard. If payment were made in one metal, it would be liable to less fluctuation than if made; in two, and in two it would be less than if made in three; therefore he considered the payment in one metal as preferable, being liable to less fluctuation.Mr. Ricardo
193192s.1.s.l.s.l. begged the noble lord to recollect, that at the time when he spoke on the bullion question last session the price of gold was at 4193192s.1.s.l.s.l.Mr. Ricardo
194 after a few observations in reply to Mr. Ricardo, said, that since the return to cash payments was finally settled, to the present time, every staple article or produce connected with manufactures had experienced a fall of from 30 to 50 per cent; the only articles exempt from the operation of that system were agricultural produce, and that was kept up by the protection of the corn laws. With respect to the petition before the House, he entirely agreed in the objects proposed, and he was willing to give the fullest credit to the professions made that night by the right hon. the president of the board of trade, to concur in the propositions that petition contained. But, unfortunately, the state of the debt and the finances, rendered it impossible, without some great alteration, for the House to pay much attention to the petition before them. When they considered the state of the public debt, when they knew how the right hon. gentleman opposite would be reminded by his right hon. friend the chancellor of the exchequer of the loss to the revenue which would follow an alteration in the system, they would, he feared, but deceive the country, if they were to encourage hopes of any great advantage being likely to be derived from the present petition, or the system, however admirable, which it suggested. There were other consideration? which ought to be met. His hon. friend who presented the petition had stated that a number of Gentle-
194Mr. Ellice,
185184183 said, that as no other gentleman seemed disposed to rise, he felt it necessary to offer a few observations on the question so ably introduced by the hon. mover. He hoped the hon. member and the House would do him the justice to believe that he was fully sensible of the extreme importance of the subject before them. He had always given it as his opinion, that the restrictive system of commerce in this country was founded
185184183Mr. F. Robinson
l.l.l.l.225224223primâ facie222 said, that all the points urged in the course of the debate were resolvable into a few plain, simple, propositions. The House was now called upon to do what had been done at the commencement of every former reign, namely, to vote a civil list for the support of the civil government and household of the sovereign. Under such circumstances the first step to he taken was, to examine the precedents of good times—he meant such as were regarded by all men with satisfaction. Going back to the Revolution, it was found that the vote of the civil list from the reign of king William to George 3rd, had been carried in this House in the first instance without minute investigation; and the only inference he wished to draw from this fact was, not that the House was bound to follow implicitly the course of precedents, but that those who proposed a deviation were bound to show the special circumstances that rendered it advisable. If it could be shown that in the course of the last reign there had been no examination into these matters, or that from the lapse of time it was possible that abuses had crept in, it might form some ground for the present proposal. If, on the other hand, it could be proved, that although an investigation, both minute and recent, had taken place, yet that since that date there had been great exceedings on the part of the Crown, a manifest want of economy, or an application for an increase, then some ground would perhaps be laid for a deviation from the ordinary precedent. But when these things had
l.l.l.l.225224223primâ facie222Mr. Canning
211s.l.210 said, he was really sorry at that hour to detain the House, and perhaps owed some apology for again claiming its attention; but he thought proper to offer a few words in explanation of some observations of his, which had been greatly misunderstood by the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down. He was most unwilling to allow the House, or even the right hon. gentleman himself (who, he trusted, was the only person who, hearing what be had said, had so misunderstood him), to go away under an impression so wide of his real meaning as
211s.l.210Mr. Brougham
 said, he had the honour to present a petition from the merchants and manufacturers in Wool, of Huddersfield and its neighbourhood, against the late duty imposed on foreign wool. The petitioners stated, and he believed justly, that, as an effect of that impolitic tax, a considerable quantity of capital had been sent out of the country. A noble friend of his intended to give that night a notice of a motion for its repeal. Till that discussion he should defer further observation on the effects of a tax whose further continuance he so much deprecated.Mr. Stuart Wortley
205 seconded the amendment, and said, that when the committee of 1816 was appointed, it was deprived of the very life and essence of a committee of inquiry. When his right hon. friend (Mr. Tierney) proposed that it should be allowed to send for persons, papers, and records, his proposition was negatived; and when a proposal was made to call before the committee an efficient officer of the lord Steward's department, it was rejected. The committee had nothing to proceed upon; they were obliged to trust implicitly to papers delivered to them from the different departments. Into the grounds on which those papers were formed, they were not allowed to inquire. He could not, therefore, rely upon the accuracy of those statements, or upon the correctness of those calculations, to which the chancellor of the exchequer appeared to think the House so peculiarly bound to attend. He was by no means disposed to countenance any denunciation against the splendor of royalty.
205Mr. Warre
 concurred in the principles laid down by the hon. mover. Much of the evil under which the country now laboured might be traced to her commercial system, and the sooner it was improved the better. It was a fit subject for the interference of his majesty's ministers. When it was recollected that the right hon. the president of the board of trade, had so unequivocally expressed his opinion against the present restrictive system, that fact alone was sufficiently strong to require the interference of ministers, and to induce them to promote, by all practical means, the objects suggested by the petitioners.Mr. Beaumont
195 said, he could not but concur with the hon. gentleman who spoke last but one, that in the present
195Mr. T. Wilson
187 said, he very much lamented that on a question like that before the House, there should be heard the least expression of any thing like party feeling. He was convinced that it could not be the wish of the petitioners to take any other view, but to represent to parliament what they really thought to be the sound principles of political economy, and to show how far the restrictive system of trade was contrary to those principles. Those alone were the objects of the petitioners; and he begged to express his entire concurrence in the sentiments of the hon. mover. He was happy to hear the right hon. the president of the broad of trade express his concurrence in those sentiments; but still he could not help feeling disappointment at some parts of that speech. The right hon. gentleman concurred in the views of the petitioners. He considered them important and desirable; but although a similar petition had been presented at the conclusion of the last session of parliament, and though the right hon. gentleman then, as now, professed sentiments friendly to those objects, yet he did not point out what practical alterations might be made; he did not say what specific plan might be
187Mr. W. Douglas
209l.l.208l.,l.,l.,l.207d.,s.l.206 said, he had always thought that there was great difficulty in discussing this question, because, from the terms in which they expressed themselves, it appeared as if there were opposite and conflicting interests at stake. But he was sure that every person who carefully directed his attention to the subject, would perceive that the civil list involved the general interests of the state. In the first parliament of a new reign, such an inquiry as that proposed by the noble lord was likely to be received with great favour. But he would tell the noble lord, that, in the practice of former reigns, there was no precedent for such an inquiry. There was nothing in the circumstances of the late demise, or the present accession, which could be urged as a reason for taking the civil list out of its ordinary course. The amount of the expenditure necessary for supporting the dignity of the Crown, and defraying the charges of the civil government, was not necessarily changed by the demise of one sovereign, and the accession of another. On the present occasion, indeed, there were circumstances which, even admitting that precedents were in favour of the noble lord's motion, would induce the House to deviate from such a course. When the noble lord talked of the groom of the stole, his answer to the noble lord was, that the groom of the stole belonged to his late majesty, and that the saving arising from the termination of that office would be carried to the account of the public; for the whole of the Windsor establishment terminated on the demise of the late
209l.l.208l.,l.,l.,l.207d.,s.l.206Mr. Huskisson
 thought that the price of one would act as a corrective on the other. He therefore preferred the plan of payments in both.Mr. W. Smith
191Mutabit merces; omnis ferit omnia tellus—nec nautical pinus190║189l.188 said, he had heard the petition before the House read with great pleasure; he had listened too with much satisfaction to the speech of the hon. member who brought it forward. If any thing indeed in the present distressed state of the country, could give satisfaction, it was that of hearing the sound principles of political economy and the liberal principles of commerce embraced by so respectable a body of men as the merchants and traders of London. But that was not the only satisfaction which he had experienced in the course of the debate. The speech of the right hon. the president of the board of trade would have increased the satisfaction he felt on the present occasion, were it not for the little alloy which was too apparent in it. To him it appeared, that the principles and the conduct of the right hon. gentleman were not in unison. He had expressed very excellent principles, but when he came to explain his conduct, and the conduct of the government with whom he acted, he was not
191Mutabit merces; omnis ferit omnia tellus—nec nautical pinus190║189l.188Lord Milton
 said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. the president of the board of trade. He wished to know from him, whether it was the intention of his majesty's government to repeal the late duty on wool? If such an intention was entertained, it would afford him the greatest satisfaction, and in their hands he would gladly leave it. If, on the contrary, they were not disposed to take that course, he rose for the purpose of giving notice that on Tuesday next he should move for the repeal of the late duty on foreign wool.Lord Milton
236 after bestowing a high eulogium on the unremitting exertions of his hon. and learned friend to amend the criminal code, and expressing a fervent hope that his humane perseverance would
236Mr. Bennet,
239l.l.,l.238 rose for the purpose of submitting to the House the motion of which he had given notice, for leave to bring in a bill to exclude the borough of Grampound from sending members to parliament, and to enable the borough of Leeds to assume that privilege. In doing so, he would shortly trouble the House with his views on the subject. He had in the course of last session stated his own opinion of the propriety of disfranchising the borough of Grampound, or any other borough similarly situated, and of extending the franchise thus forfeited to large towns or populous districts. When he stated this opinion, it was, he
239l.l.,l.238Lord John Russell
 said, it was not his intention to call for any further proceeding. The inquiry last year rendered it unnecessary.Lord J. Russell
241 wished to observe, that it was necessary to introduce in the bill then before the House the name of some place to which the elective franchise was to be transferred. He had no objection to granting the franchise any other borough. The right hon. gentleman must know, that when bills were brought in respecting other boroughs in which bribery and corruption had prevailed, the title of those bills was "a bill for preventing bribery and corruption in such a borough." It was quite impossible to give such a title to the bill, which did not go to prevent bribery and corruption for the future in Grampound, but to deprive it entirely of its franchises. With respect to the admission that was made in the last session
241Lord J. Russell
 perfectly agreed in the observation, that it would be very inexpedient, where several boroughs were disfranchised, to extend the rights thus forfeited to any one place.Mr. D. Gilbert
 said, the only answer he could give the noble lord was, that, undoubtedly it would become necessary to propose to parliament to make a provision for the queen, as well as for several other branches of the royal family. The subject would soon be brought under the consideration of parliament.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
246245244l.243 in rising to bring forward his motion relative to Edwards, who was said to be connected with the Cato-street conspiracy, begged to assure the House that he had no other end or object in view than that of public justice. Before he gave notice of this motion, he had done every thing in his power, by application to the Secretary of state for the home department, to have this individual brought to trial. The information which he possessed came to his knowledge in his magisterial capacity. He laid the documents before lord Sidmouth, and offered to bring forward, for examination at his office, the different witnesses upon whose testimony they were made out. His representations not having been acted upon, he felt it his duty to bring the subject before parliament. He had looked over the depositions of more than thirty persons, and those documents which he held in his hand he should feel it necessary to read at length to the House, unless his motion for a committee was granted [a laugh]. He assured the House that he had not the slightest wish to occupy their attention more than was absolutely necessary. If the House would allow the appointment of a select committee, he would undertake to satisfy them of the facts which he had to allege against this man, Edwards. This was a question of a grave and serious nature, and called for their most patient
246245244l.243Mr. Alderman Wood,
—I beg to know on what authority the hon. alderman is proceeding. Were these affidavits? Was this evidence taken on oath?Mr. Grenfell.
 conceived this interruption to be uncalled for.Mr. Bennet
 observed, that unauthenticated papers could not be read except with the permission of the House.Mr. Wynn
—I wish, for my own information, and that of the House, to know on what authority this evidence rests.Mr. Grenfell.
249l.l.248247 answered, that these documents were copies of depositions, many of which had been laid before lord Sidmouth, and were signed by the persons who gave the evidence. Those individuals were ready to swear to the truth of their statements. William Coudry stated that he attended several meetings when Edwards was present, and was informed by him, on one occasion, that a cabinet dinner was to be given at lord Westmoreland's, at which lord Castlereagh would be present. Edwards said, "the b—y Irish butcher must be made away with." Coudry stated also that he had often seen Edwards afterwards, and he was always preparing destructive instruments, Seymour staled, that he knew Edwards four or five, years. He met him some time ago, and he proposed that deponent should go to a meeting in Smithfield. He replied to Edwards that he would not go, for that he was not inclined to join in those bad pranks. Edwards afterwards told this man that the meeting had not turned out to their expectation. This, the hon. alderman observed, was a man of considerable respectability. Another man had seen Edwards at a coffeehouse, in June, and was told by him that the only means was, to destroy his majesty's ministers by throwing hand-gre-
249l.l.248247Mr. Alderman Wood
255254253252 said, that such a motion ought to be supported either by some case of precedent, or some analogy in other times; or it ought to be founded on the urgent necessity of the case. The worthy alderman had not established any grounds applicable to either of those descriptions. The motion was totally inconsistent with every thing he understood constantly to belong to the functions of that House. It was a motion for a secret committee to inquire into the degree of criminality in an individual person. Anything so extraordinary, so anomalous, as the degree of criminality in an individual, he had never heard proposed for inquiry in that House. He had always expressed, when inquiries of certain kinds were proposed, how cautious the House should be in tradeing on judicial grounds. Judicial inquiries could never be conducted by that House, either with honour to itself, or success in eliciting truth. What powers had that House for the purpose of judicial inquiry? Was there any thing of so little weight as evidence given either at the bar, or before a committee of that
255254253252Mr. Bankes
 addressed the House for the first time, as follows:—Mr. Hobhouse
264 said, that for the number of years that he had sat in the House, he had never heard a motion brought forward on such extraordinary grounds as the present, unless it was, indeed, the former motion of the hon. alderman to proceed against an individual for a breach of privilege, which consisted in a plan to blow up the House; on which ground, he supposed, Guy Fawkes must also have been guilty of a breach of privilege. It had been said, that in similar cases, when his majesty's ministers had to complain of machinations against themselves, similar committees had been appointed. He had never heard of any such committees appointed on account of machinations against the ministers—they were not appointed to gratify the curiosity of the public, but always, as far as his experience went, to lay the ground of legislative proceedings. Who were the witnesses in this case? Men, no one of whom had done the duty of loyal subjects, and given information of the nefarious designs which had been unbosomed to them. It was said this did not lessen the guilt of Edwards, but did it not lessen their credibility? The case was, there was a plot, of which this person had given information. Was it not likely that those who were implicated in that plot and not tried, would, out of policy, as those who were found guilty would, from revenge, seek to invalidate the testimony, and discredit the character of the informer? Was it not common in
264Mr. Wynn
274273272271270269 said, the grounds on which the hon. and learned gentleman had proposed to vote for the motion of the worthy alderman were new, and wholly distinct from those on which the hon. members who preceded him had given it their support. The worthy alderman in bringing forward his motion proposed to inquire into the conduct of Edwards, but disclaimed all intention of imputing blame to the government for the use they had made of that person. His hon. and learned friend supported the motion on the ground that the government was wrong in employing him, which: he had assumed without a tittle of proof, and; then he came to the conclusion that he had seduced the late conspirators into the commission of that crime for which they had suffered. He would state that Edwards had never been employed by the government as a spy, and it was not in that character that he furnished that information which had enabled ministers to defeat one of the most horrible plots that had ever been formed. He would ask his hon. and learned friend, if he could suppose that Edwards had seduced Thistlewood and his associates, after reading
274273272271270269The Attorney General
278277276275 said, that he should occupy the attention of the House but for a very short time. If ever a speech was made which tended to support a motion it was meant to oppose, it was the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman who had just sat down. If all was so clear as he had insisted, where could be the objection to adopting an inquiry, in order to satisfy the doubts which existed in the public mind. If the whole country agreed in taking the same view that the attorney-general had expressed, they might then say with truth that there ought to be no inquiry; but when the public mind was strongly agitated with very different impressions, no simple vote of the House of Commons, nothing but substantial proof, nothing but accurate investigation could satisfy them, whatever statements the attorney-general might offer to their consideration. He had given one reason, which, was in itself a powerful argument against his own advice; lie had stated that there were other persons, and those not few, connected with the conspiracy—persons of importance and wealth in the country. Such was the way in which he understood the hon. and learned gentleman, and if that was his meaning, the propriety of going into a committee could no longer be denied. The hon. and learned gentleman had stated other points in which he was not borne out by fact. There could be no doubt as to the object of the unhappy persons engaged in the conspiracy, or as to the
278277276275Sir Francis Burdelt
 rose to explain. He by no means meant to reply to the many stupid, absurd, and senseless exaggerations which the right hon. gentleman had been guilty of with regard to his (sir F. Burdett's) sentiments. In the list of his absurdities it had been represented that if his own house were on fire, and the lives of his own family dependent on the steps he should take in such a case he would hesitate to receive, or to act upon the information of an accomplice in the mischief! He had only blamed government for keeping in constant pay a regular set of spies, who insidiously went about the country for the purpose of fomenting discontents and planning conspiracies in order to inveigle the unwary into the snares of the law. He would not retract what he had said; and under this explanation he would repeat that the right hon. gentleman's logic was most absurd, ridiculous, and senseless.Sir F. Burdett
 begged pardon for such frequent interruptions, but, before the discussion proceeded, he should like to hear from the right hon. gentleman, what he meant when he said his (sir F. Burdett's) "man?" The right hon. gentler man he thought was full of levity that night. He had accused a worthy alderman of being drunk with popularity; but> for his part, he thought the right hon. gentleman was himself drunk with insolence.Sir F. Burdett
 in explanation, stated, that in saying the late conspirators were supplied with money from other quarters, hp by no means intended to allude to any persons of particular consequence. But those persons who gave the money were fully known to government; and when he expressed a wish that they should be aware of that fact, he meant that it should be communicated to them through the usual channels, by which the public became acquainted with the public became acquainted with the proceedings of the House.The Attorney General,
291290 that as he had been charged in a very unhandsome manner by a right hon. gentle-
291290Mr. Alderman Wood,
 then rose, and stated, that he considered it his duty to say what he did. It occurred to him that the right hon. gentleman had said, that the worthy alderman was drunk with popularity [a cry of No, no!]. He did not mean to say that the right hon. gentleman used the express words, but certainly he took the meaning to be, that the worthy alderman was intoxicated with popularity. The words he used in consequence of that impression were not intended to be personal.Sir F. Burdett
242 rose
242Lord A. Hamilton
 observed, that, if it were determined to take away the elective franchise from Grampound, he could suggest places in that part of the country with which he was more intimately connected to which it might be extended with advantage.Lord A. Hamilton
240 said, that as it, had been distinctly understood in the last session of the last parliament, that the noble, lord who now introduced this measure should not be in the smallest degree prejudiced in again bringing forward the subject, so far as this proceeding might have been prejudiced by the dissolution of the last, and the formation of a new parliament, that circumstance would be amply sufficient to justify any individual who might wish to oppose the introduction of this bill in abstaining from pursuing that course. He, however, felt no such inclination. He was perfectly disposed, on his own part, and on the part of those with whom he acted, to see the noble lord's bill brought before the House for discussion. And so far as the acknowledgment of the principle, that a borough convicted of gross bribery and corruption, such as in former times would produce an order for disfranchisement, went, he was ready to say that to such disfranchisement, in such a proved case, he had no objection. So far would he go. But he was sure it was not necessary to appeal to the noble lord's candour for the preservation of any ulterior opinion as to the mode in which the franchise, so taken away, should be disposed of; because he was convinced the noble lord would recollect that, in the last session of parliament, the introduction of the town of Leeds rested solely on his own will and opinion, without any previous concert or understanding, expressed or implied, with any other persons, as to the propriety of selecting that particular place. No person, he believed, but the noble mover himself, was cognizant of the place to which he wished to transfer the franchise. When the bill came regularly before the House for discussion, he should be prepared to enter into all the considerations that he longed to it. He was at present only desirous that the consent which, individually,
240Mr. Canning
 after complimenting his hon. and learned friend on the manner in which he had again brought forward this important subject, proceeded to say, that although he certainly should not object to the present motion, it must not be considered that any man, by acceding to it, was pledged to entertain any further proceeding. He should be happy to see the purposes for which his hon. and learned friend wished the appointment of the committee fully developed; and he could assure him, that no objection would be made on his part to any ulterior proposition, for objection's sake; or unless there should appear to be some solid and substantial ground for doubting its expediency.Mr. Canning,
 observed, that the hon. baronet saw and heard not only what was, but also what was not. He distinctly disavowed having used the expression that the worthy alderman was "drunk with popularity." As to his having given to an hon. friend of the hon. baronet's the title of the hon. baronet's "man," it was an expression which he had met with in some speeches made in Westminster during the late vacation, and which he had read in the same way as the hon. baronet might perhaps have read his (Mr. Canning's) speeches on a similar occasion at Liverpool.Mr. Canning
 answered in the negative, adding, that he was not conscious of making such an observation as would imply that he believed in the existence of any approbation of a doctrine that might be as inconvenient to their successors, as to those who at present held the offices alluded to.Mr. Canning
 did not think he had misrepresented the hon. baronet. He did not think so before the hon. baronet last rose: nor did the explanation of the hon. baronet alter his opinion. He had never said that the hon. baronet contended for the rejection of evidence after detection.Mr. Canning
285argumenti grati.â284283282281pro tanto280prima facieprima facie279 was so satisfied with the state in which the question had been left by the speeches on the other side of the House, and by the speech of his hon. and learned friend, that he had determined not to take any part in this debate, and was only induced to abandon that determination by the speech of the hon. baronet; which had given an entirely different character to the discussion. The worthy alderman proposed that a committee should be appointed to inquire into the conduct of an individual, with a view of bringing that individual to justice, and was so far from accusing the government, that he called upon ministers to give him their assistance, hut they now found that it was considered by the hon. baronet that the motion Was a motion against ministers, and that the result of the inquiry proposed would probably prove, not only that Edwards was criminal, but establish guilt against the government itself. Under this imputation, he thought it would be as inexcusable in him to be silent as it would have been in-excusable under different circumstances
285argumenti grati.â284283282281pro tanto280prima facieprima facie279Mr. Canning
293 said, he had not taken any thing amiss which had fallen from the hon. baronet. He had only replied to him as the advocate of the hon. alderman's motion. There certainly were no two persons at greater variance on the subject of politics than the hon. baronet and himself; but there was no member he more
293Mr. Canning
 said, he understood the worthy alderman wished to withdraw the motion; he therefore took the opportunity of stating, that he, for one, would not suffer the motion to be withdrawn.Mr. Canning
noli prosequi289 observed, that the right
noli prosequi289Mr. Brougham
288287 assured the House that he should occupy their attention but for a few moments, as he had nothing very material to the question to offer, although he differed from the views of his friends near him, by whom the motion was supported as well as from the opinions of the gentlemen opposite, by whom that motion was opposed. He stood in such a situation, that he had to vindicate himself against the observations of both, which he hoped he should be found to do upon some interchange of explanation. As to the remark which the attorney-general was understood to have made, namely, that money was furnished to the late conspirators by some persons of consequence, upon that remark, as it was explained by the right hon. member for Liverpool, he was not disposed to dwell. But there was a remark from the right hon. gentleman himself, with regard to which he felt it necessary to call for some explanation, in: order to prevent any erroneous impression from going forth to the country. Observing that the right hon. gentleman had left the House, he should wait for the explanation he required until his return, being persuaded that he should obtain a satisfactory explanation from the candour of the right bon. gentleman; he meant as to that passage in the right hon. gentleman's speech, in which he was understood to say
288287Mr. Brougham
261 stated to the House, that one individual who had been seduced into the late plot, not by Edwards, but by one of his own neighbours (in consequence of reading seditious publications), and who bore a good character theretofore, had repented of his conduct; and having communicated his situation to a friend of his, his friend advised him to go before a magistrate and disclose all he knew of the transactions. Having been introduced to him (Mr. B.),and frankly disclosed the whole of what he knew; he (Mr. B.) brought him before a magistrate; but so terrified was he, that he would not on any account, allow his name to be disclosed—it was notdisclosed. Having been apprised of the present motion he (Mr.B.) sent for him, that day and asked him whether he knew Edwards? He replied, that he knew nothing of Edwards since the execution of Thistlewood and his companions. One of the persons implicated in that transaction had reminded him that Edwards attended some of the early meetings, but he did not see him attend any of the late meetings of the conspirators. He (Mr. B.) asked the man whether it was necessary that such a person as Edwards should persuade to acts of violence? He replied by saying "do you suppose we were children?"—The men engaged were men of firmness and understanding, and they were most desperate in the business; at one of their meetings it was observed, that the servants of the ministers were not involved in their masters' guilt, and therefore ought not to be murdered; but the proposal to spare the servants was opposed, as it was said to be sometimes necessary
261Mr. Butterworth
263262 expressed himself surprised that the hon. member who had last spoken could impute such improper motives to the hon. alderman who had introduced this question. The conduct of that worthy alderman was as upright and proper as that of the hon. member himself, or any other member in that House. The hon. alderman had acted in situations where that conduct was tried—in.a situation which he (Mr. Butterworth) had not been in, and he was always found humanely attentive to all its duties. Was it to be called a crime in him to endeavour to come at truth? He conceived it was not, and that the objection of the honourable member amounted to nothing at all.—It was too much to attribute improper motives to an hon member for an attempt to come at the truth. [Hear, hear! and laughter from the ministerial benches.] Gentlemen might laugh if they pleased. He was, however, sorry to find such a disposition on the present occasion.—It was different when any matter was brought forward in which ministers were interested; then they were all ear, and gave every, attention. He could not conceive why the; House should refuse inquiry on this important question. In an official despatch from the government of Bengal it was stated, in strong terms that there was the amplest evidence to prove that a person, employed as a spy had devised the robbery and murder of which he afterwards convicted the unhappy person who was seduced by his instigations. The hon. alderman had shown that Edwards, accompanied by his brother, had brought
263262Mr. Hume
268267266265 said, it was impossible not to observe, that the opinion which he and some of his friends near him had formed on the subject before them was disagree-
268267266265Mr. Denman
260"Princcps qui delatores non castigat, irritat.""inter adversa temporum"259258257256; I feel it incumbent upon me to state shortly my reasons for voting for a motion which, as it has been characterized as senseless, stupid, and absurd, cannot, it appears, be supported without some excuse; and in so doing, I am aware that it is necessary to intreat the House to grant to me the indulgence usually bestowed upon a young member. Indeed I cannot conceal from myself—I cannot conceal from others—that these are peculiar circumstances attending my position here, which make it more than commonly requisite to lay claim to the patience, the attention, and even the candour of the House, whilst I endeavour to explain my sentiments upon a question on which such division of opinion seems likely to prevail [Hear, hear!]. My embarrassment is increased also, since I venture to oppose a gentleman of experience so tried, and of character so high, both in this House and in the country, as the hon. member who has just sat down, and has given opinions so diametrically opposite to those which I venture to entertain. But, unless I am mistaken in every point of view in which I have been able to consider tin's subject—unless I am totally unable to distinguish between right and wrong—unless I have mis-read all the records of this House and of the country, this question is such as an English House of Commons not only should not reject without examination, but is bound seriously to entertain. The hon. member has told us, that this House should not meddle with the criminal jurisdiction of the courts of law. The position, generally speaking, may be admitted—for who does not see that much mischief must ensue from the interference of the makers with the administrators of the laws? And yet it is undeniable that there are many precedents for this interference—it is undeniable that the House of Commons has, in various
260"Princcps qui delatores non castigat, irritat.""inter adversa temporum"259258257256Mr. Speaker
 observed, that he was happy to find there was no ground for the supposed irritation of the feelings of the hon. members.The Speaker
 rose amidst loud cries of Hear, hear! He was satisfied, he said, that there could be but one feeling of thankfulness in that House towards the hon. and gallant member for the observations that had just proceeded from him; and he was equally sure, that if any expressions, conjured up by the warmth of debate, had fallen from any honourable members, they would be very ready to give the House that satisfaction, which the hon. and gallant member had so handsomely and so properly solicited [Here a pause of several seconds ensued]. The Speaker at length again rose. The hon. and gallant member, he observed, in addressing the House at first, had not pointed so distinctly to the objects of his speech as to name the members to whom he alluded. He, therefore, now felt it to be his duty to say, that he understood the allusion to apply to sir Francis Burdett and Mr. Canning.The Speaker
237 would merely address a few words to that part of his hon. friend's speech which was directed towards himself personally. When his lamented friend sir S. Romilly brought in his bill for the abolition of the horrible
237Sir J. Mackintosh
235234233232231230229228 rose, pursuant to notice, to submit certain propositions to the House touching the present state of the criminal law, founded on the report of the committee which had been appointed last session, to take into consideration so much of the criminal code as related to the infliction of capital punishment. The propositions which he should have the honor to propose, embraced two objects; the first was the appointment of a committee for a similar purpose as that which sat during the last session; and, in the second place, he should move for leave to bring in six bring in for the amendment of the criminal law, agreeably to the recommendation contained in the report of the late committee. As he understood there existed no intention in that quarter where he should much regret hostility, to oppose the propositions which he should have the honor to submit, he certainly should not trespass long on the attention of the House, did he not think it respectful towards those new members, who had not heard the former arguments, very shortly to review the nature of the grounds on which this subject was introduced. The object for which the committee was appointed by the last House of Commons, was, to ascertain, by the fullest inquiry and by the best experience, whether the severity of capital punishments did not
235234233232231230229228Sir James Mackintosh
251250 in seconding the motion, could not withhold his tribute of praise to the worthy alderman, to whose vigilance and attention to the public interests the country was so much indebted. He hoped that his majesty's ministers would not, on consideration, object to the motion. The more particularly as it would afford them an opportunity of vindicating themselves from the reproach of being connected with this Edwards, as well as from the mysterious circumstance of his not having been put either to the bar or in the jury box. He was not in England when the trial took place, but he had not since his return, conversed with any man who did not deplore the, circumstance of that person not having been brought forward, either as a culprit or a witness. It appeared that one of the sheriffs, accompanied by another gentleman, waited on lord Sidmouth, requesting that he might be called as a witness. He was not prepared to say that spies were not necessary under certain circumstances, but he must say, that an organised spy system was most abominable. If ministers were prepared to say, that the state of this, country was such as to require an organized
251250Sir R. Wilson,
 said, that it could not fail to have been observed by the House that some warm words had passed between certain honourable members in the course of that debate. It would be much to be regretted if the House should break up without the satisfaction of knowing that those words, so uttered in the heat of the moment, had, in fact, made no unpleasant impresssion on the minds of the parties, who, he hoped, would therefore gratify the House, by manifesting the absence of any feeling contrary to that amicable understanding with which it was customary to conduct the discussions in that House [Hear, hear!].Sir Robert Wilson
 observed, that it would be extremely inconvenient, supposing a number of boroughs to be disfranchised, to give the right of voting to those who, as freeholders, had now a right of voting for county members. Supposing, for instance, five Cornish boroughs to fall under the lash of the House—a circumstance by no means impossible—those to whom the franchise was transferred would then have to vote for twelve members—two for the county, and ten for other places.Lord Milton
 presented the report of the committee to whom had been referred for consideration the petition from the lord mayor, aldermen, and corporation of London, praying to be allowed to raise a further sum for the completion of the improvements at the west end of the city. The hon. baronet moved, That the report be referred to a committee of the whole House."Sir. W. Curtis
294 had no sort of objection to send the accounts to a select committee, but it appeared to him that such a proceeding, on the report of another com-
294Sir W. Curtis
 had no objection to the motion for sending the accounts to a select committee for examination. The hon. member for Surrey had frequently touched on the subject of the duty on coals, but had never been able to make a successful impression on the House. What would be the effect of the present proposition on the hon. gentleman's constituents? That some thirty years hence they would pay a shilling a chaldron more for their coals than at present! That for which they would so pay, would be also as great an advantage to them as to other people. Instead of the narrow confined streets in which coaches and carts were now sometimes detained for two or three hours, fine wide streets would be opened, a circumstance which had no connexion with the new post-office. This street would show St. Paul's in a nobler point of view than it had been yet seen from the north road.Mr. Alderman Wood
304l. was as anxious as any other honourable member could be to see a definite and permanent policy adopted; to see, indeed, the country in an independent situation, which it never could be in its present financial circumstances. We were, however, so peculiarly placed, that it was very difficult to estimate correctly, our own resources. He made this remark in candour and fairness to the right hon. gentleman. Though sorry to learn it, as a matter of information, he could easily conceive why a deficiency should have taken place upon the last quarter. What he dreaded was, lest the same uncertainty should attach to every future estimate of our revenue. Nothing, however, could be calculated on, without a greater degree of quiet and subordination than at present existed. In the present unfortunate state of the country, he was averse to any decisive measure, till he could see the strength of our means. Labouring, as we did, under a want of credit and of confidence, from the state of the country, he did not think that any decisive measure could at present be proposed. There was, indeed, plenty of money in the country; but would there be such a depression of stock, if there was not a want of confidence? If there were a sinking fund of 5,000,000304l.Mr. Baring
 said, that Mr. Pitt's draughts in Hamburgh were of quite a different description. The draughts at present circulated abroad were made applicable to funds abroad. In a few months he would wind up the whole account, and then present to the House regular accounts of all.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said a few words respecting large quantities of silver imported into this country, and large draughts on the treasury of this country, arising from such imports.Mr. Grenfell
 said, that it was quite sufficient for him to hear the intention of the right hon. gentleman to present the accounts. If the right hon. gentleman had general bonds for money outstanding on the continent, he would say, as far as he knew the subject, that it was a measure extremely objectionable; and he had heard that there were draughts at three months circulated all over the continent.Mr. Baring
 said, that those draughts were for silver imported into this country.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.301s.l.l.l.l.l.l.300l.l.l,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.299l.l.298 rose for the purpose of making the mo-
l.l.301s.l.l.l.l.l.l.300l.l.l,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.299l.l.298Mr. Maberly
l.l.l.l.302 said, he should not discharge his duty to the country by prematurely entering into an explanation of his financial arrangements. he was aware that much anxiety existed
l.l.l.l.302The Chancellor of the Exchequer
305 in reply, assured the House that his observations were not made with a view to profit the fundholder, but to benefit the country at large. He was anxious to see a permanent sinking fund established, and our financial system placed on a sound and permanent footing. He begged to assure the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he had no wish to pry into his financial arrangements; on the contrary, he was aware that any premature disclosure of them would be injurious,
305Mr. Maberly,
d,s.l.l.l. objected to this proposition. The sum of 240,000d,s.l.l.l.Mr. H. Sumner
295 presented a petition from the manufacturers and other inhabitants, residing in one of the most populous places in the manufacturing district of the West Riding of Yorkshire, the parish of Kirkheaton, complaining of distress, and attributing that distress principally to the duties on wool. He would read to the House a paragraph from the petition, to show the severe nature of the distress experienced, premising that the petition came from persons as well-disposed to the support of government as the inhabitants of any part of the island. The hon. gentleman read the passage in question, which declared that the distress of the petitioners was great beyond example, and that they could not better illustrate its severity than by a reference to the state of the poorer manufacturers in the parish of seven or eight thousand, of whom 1700 had on an average earned, during the present year, only 11½ a week each. The petitioners prayed that the House would take the state
295Mr. Stuart-Wortley
303 expressed his disapprobation of the system of finance lately adopted by the right hon. gentleman. It had fallen within his knowledge, that considerable sums had been vested in foreign countries, in consequence of the alarm felt from the insecurity of our present system. There was nothing more necessary than the establishment of a permanent system of finance; as long as our present system was persevered in, so long would surmises, doubts, and alarms exist in the public mind. If it should be found necessary to impose any new tax, he hoped it would be levied on those who were best able to pay it. He could not help saying,
303Mr. J. Smith
297296 presented a Petition from William Cobbett, lately a Candidate for the city of Coventry, setting forth.297296Mr. Butterworth
 said, that he could never consent to the strengthening of the funds at the expence of the community. If the funds were improved by fresh burdens on the country, that would be improving them at the expense of the other interests of the community. The stockholder already received increased value, for be had become a stockholder during a depreciated currency, and now he received increased value by means of the meliorated currency. No sacrifice ought to be made of the great interests of the country for the benefit of the stock-holder. The commercial and agricultural interests were already in great difficulty, and their difficulties seemed not to be diminishing. He therefore must protest against any improvement of the funds, at the expense of the landholder.Sir John Newport
330 observed, that the hon. member was quite mistaken in his representation of the objects of the petitioners. Had lie given himself the trouble to attend to the allegations of the many that had been already presented, he would have found that they abstained from stating any specific measure of relief, but prayed generally for an inquiry. Was that inquiry to be refused by the House? He trusted not; and when it took place, he was convinced it would appear that the object was not to put money into the pockets of the landlord or the farmer, but to enable them to give employment to labour. In the present distressed state of the agricultural interest, he knew, and he said it with pain, that it was made the object of both the landlord and the farmer, to abstract rather than to employ labour. He should be very sorry that any premature discussion on the subject should take place, and therefore he regretted that a gallant and honourable member had on a former night sounded an alarum on the question. There could be no separate
330Mr. Curwen
 hoped that as long as petitioners approached that House in moderate and respectful language, their application for inquiry would be attended to. When the measure for increasing the importation price of corn was under the consideration of parliament, he had voted against it, but though he did not feel himself bound by that conduct to oppose inquiry, he never had conceived that this question could not be viewed as one in which the interests were divided. Agriculture and commerce had an equal and a common interest in their respective prosperity. It was also to be recollected, that the whole burthen of the poor was thrown upon the agricultural interest. That his hon. friend who spoke last, had, on a former evening, admitted to be a question worthy of investigation. Was it not right then to ascertain whether any relief could be afforded, even on that point?Mr. Calcraft
334 presented a petition from the merchants, housekeepers, and other inhabitants of Liverpool. It was signed by nearly 400 individuals of the highest respectability. The petitioners stated, that they observed that a bill had been brought into the House for the regulation of the civil list, and the}' hoped, that in proceeding to the consideration of that object, the House would bear in mind the existing national distress. The petitioners particularly adverted to the subject of pensions, and described the bad effect on the public mind arising from the lavish and indiscriminate manner in which they were bestowed. They hoped that the amount and disposition of these pensions would be clearly defined by parliament; and they also hoped it might be made the law of the land, that no part of the pension fund should ever be granted
334Lord Sefton
 took that opportunity of giving notice, that whenever the civil list bill should come into the committee, he would propose the introduction of a clause, providing, that members of the House of Commons who should receive from the Crown any such grants as those alluded to in the petition, should vacate their seats.Mr. Bennet
335 rose to present a petition from certain inhabitants of Oldham, the contents of which they prayed the House to take into their serious consideration. It appeared from the petition, that a series of military outrages, as the petitioners denominated them, had I recently been committed in the neighbourhood of Oldham. In the first place, he wished to state, that whether these were, or were not, exaggerated accounts of transactions which did not deserve the designation given to them, it was not possible for him to say; but, as far as he could collect information on the subject, he believed that every thing stated I in the petition was perfectly correct; and he would farther add, that there was nothing in the petition that was at all disrespectful to the House. It appeared, according to the petition, that the inhabitants of Oldham had, on two or three occasions, been subjected to the excesses of the military, who, immediately subsequent; to those excesses, had been removed, and replaced by others; in consequence of which, the inhabitants did not know who the soldiers were by whom they had been molested; and therefore they had not the means of procuring justice by a legal process. He understood that, most unfortunately, such a suspicion was entertained of the possibility of receiving justice at the hands of the magistrates, that the inhabitants would much rather go before the commanding officer than apply
335Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that having expressed his anxiety that the subject should be thoroughly investigated, in consequence of the various matters that had come to his knowledge with respect to it, he wished, in order to guard himself from the charge of inconsistency, to state, that now, having heard the petition read, he was of opinion that the allegations which it contained were not a fit subject for parliamentary inquiry.Mr. B. Wilbraham
 said, that all that had been observed by the hon. gentleman was so very little to the purpose, in the present stage of the proceeding, that he certainly would not have risen, if it were not for the disposition which the hon. gentleman evinced to reject the petition. It appeared to him to be of very little importance who might or might not be the drawer up of that petition. And it would be most extraordinary, if, on a mere statement of the kind which the hon. gentleman had made to the House—a statement which he doubtless had received from some persons connected with the transaction—it should be decided, as a matter of course, that there was no ground for this complaint, which described an outrage affecting all the inhabitants of the town, and testified by 3,000 of them. It was of a more serious and important nature than the hon. gentleman seemed to suppose. It was indeed so important, that he hoped the House would not only receive the petition now, but would not let it remain long on their table, without instituting some inquiry into the facts. It appeared to him to be a subject of such magnitude, that he thought he should be hardly doing his duty to the country, if he did not call for an inquiry into the matters which that petition disclosed. He thought it was impossible for them to reject this petition, without any reason of any kind being given for such a proceeding—without even knowing the matter which it contained—merely from the statement of an hon. gentleman. When they were informed that the most weak and defenceless part of the community had attacked men who always had the power to overbear those whom they disliked, and who always, more particularly under the existing circumstances of the country, felt a strong inclination to use that power, they should listen to the assertion cautiously, and abstain from rejecting the petition on such a statement.Sir F. Burdett
337 had
337The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he could not help expressing his gratitude to ministers for the forbearance they had manifested on tin's occasion. His majesty had in his speech from the throne, been graciously pleased to recommend economy. The distresses of the country loudly called for its adoption. The country was in such a situation, that it could with difficulty pay the interest of the national debt. And, under all these circumstances, what was the forbearance of ministers? Why, they simply contented themselves with fixing the civil list at the highest rate at which it had ever been—at a rate at which it stood when money was three times more plentiful than it was at this moment. They would have better consulted both the dignity of the Crown and the situation of the country, had they commenced a system of economy in that quarter where it could be enforced with so little comparative inconvenience. He feared that the ominous mention of the word "economy," in the royal speech, was only for the purpose of dispensing with it in practice. If this was so, ministers were responsible, and deserved the just indignation of the country [Hear!].Sir R. Heron
 said, that the surplus of the third class had regularly been carried to the consolidated fund, and the accounts of the consolidated fund uniformly accounted for every such surplus. To that fund he referred the hon. gentleman for an account of this part of the civil list. A few days ago an order had been made for an account of all pensions, including the pensions to which the hon. gentleman had alluded. This account, would soon be laid before the House. Plate was usually given where official situations required greater display and splendor than the salary could afford. In general, presents of this kind were very moderate, and below the amount which the station of those to whom they were made might seem to require. Since the year 1816 services of plate had been given to all ambassadors to foreign courts, in order to enable them to support the dignity and splendor of representatives of the sovereign.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
331 was not disposed to refuse inquiry to the petitioners, though he thought,
331Mr. Ricardo
 rose to present a petition from the manufacturers and traders of Birmingham, stating the distress which prevailed in that town in consequence of the stagnation of trade. The petitioners observed, that the distress and inconvenience under which they laboured had existed for a considerable time, and would, they were afraid, go on increasing, unless some effectual remedy were found. They did not pretend to point out any remedy, but they seriously hoped that this House would institute a solemn inquiry into the causes of the prevailing distress. After what had occurred on a former evening he would not trouble the House with the details connected with this subject; but he believed that the account of the distress contained in the petition was not at all exaggerated. He had received statements from various* sources, all concurring in the magnitude of the distress which at present existed—a fact that was farther proved by the increase of the poor-rates in that quarter. There never was, he thought, a case that required more decidedly the interference Of parliament; and he trusted that, if any means could be devised for alleviating the sufferings of the people, that relief and that assistance would be rendered them as speedily as possible.Mr. Dugdale
 hoped that the motion of the hon. presenter would be agreed to; but in so desiring his object was different from that of the hon. baronet. He viewed the subject in a light very different from that in which the hon. baronet saw it. He wished the allegations of the petition should be known and canvassed, because he believed that the more they were known and canvassed, the less ground would there appear for the complaint. He believed the hon. gentleman (Mr. Clive) had stated the facts as they really were, and he trusted that the whole matter would go fairly before the public. They would be enabled to judge, from the reading of the petition, whether there was any good cause of complaint on the part of those individuals; and therefore he hoped the petition would be received.Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
332 stated, that he could vouch for the unequivocal respectability of the petitioners. In their allegations as to the poor laws, he agreed with them; in many other respects he differed with them, most particularly as to the extension of the principle by which the price of corn was raised. Such an unnatural increase directly went to raise the price of labour, and add to the pressure of the poor-rates. It was, however, not to be denied, that the distress amongst the occupiers of land was excessive. Many farmers, who were in possession of property, were actually living on their capital, and those who had saved nothing, or but a little, were totally ruined. The country in fact, at the present hour, laboured under a stagnation of all its leading interests. The causes were, to him, plain and obvi-
332Lord Nugent
340 said, that the petition was very numerously signed, and he believed a more respectable body of men did not exist than those whose complaints were now before the House. They were not persons connected with any particular political party; amongst them were to be found some who took one side in politics—some who took another. They were indeed the most respectable, and the most worthy of the attention of that House, of any of the members of the community to which they belonged. He was exceedingly anxious to support the motion, that they should have a hearing. But he could not help stating his own feeling, as he had done before the last recess, that a compliance with the prayer of their petition was not likely to be attended with any beneficial result. Not that he had the smallest kind of doubt of the facts stated in the petition; not that he did not believe that the distress of which they complained was deeply and widely spread over that district (he wished he was not justified in adding, that it extended also over all the rest of the country; but because, from marking the course of such a proceeding, he had come to an opinion which was firmly rooted in his mind—that a parliamentary inquiry instituted in that House, with a view to revising, altering, and amending commercial or agricultural concerns, was by no means the best mode that could be adopted for attaining the desired object. He conceived that ministers themselves, by their means of information, by the remedies which they might recommend to parliament, and which, above all, they could support by their influence, were the persons who should devise measures of this description. They presented the only rational means of affording substantial relief; and he was sorry to be obliged to add, that the present administration, from the view which they appeared to have taken with respect to the agricultural and commercial interest, and, indeed, with reference to every thing they had done on those great questions of political economy, were not very likely to go into an inquiry of this kind in such a spirit as the exigency of the times demanded. He must also add, if they did proceed to this inquiry, that the country must feel, looking to all their acts, and to the degree of confidence which they enjoyed, that they were not precisely that sort of government, who could, with a reasonable prospect of suc-
340Mr. Brougham
 in explanation, said, he had a right to complain of two misrepresentations which the hon. gentleman had made of his speech. He had in two instances wholly mistaken him. The hon. gentleman had talked as if he had said, that no party in that House could form a ministry. He had not stated any such thing. What he had said was, that the exigencies of the state at this moment called for most important measures; and that no ordinary ministry could meet that task satisfactorily, which could alone be effected by a ministry so constituted as to conciliate the whole country. In the second place, he never had called on the House to turn a deaf ear to the petitioners; He had said the very reverse. He had called on the House to turn their ear to them, with the assistance of those Who possessed great influence, and who could carry such measures as they thought fit—he meant his majesty's government. Let the petition be brought up; let it be laid oh the table; and he hoped it would lead his majesty's ministers to institute an inquiry on the subject.Mr. Brougham,
 said, he did not think there was any good ground for the complaint, and he had, under that impression, opposed the petition in the first instance.Mr. H. Clive
336 wished to offer a few words on the subject of the petition, which, he believed, was drawn up by a person of some notoriety, who came from London, and was now connected with the Manchester Observer. That individual had, he understood, felt a strong inclination to charge the military with riotous behaviour. On the 25th of April, a sort of rejoicing took place at Oldham, and at one of the public-houses, where a number of the town people were assembled, there happened also to be a few of the military. A most improper toast was given by one of the former, on which the soldiers wished to withdraw, and they were grossly insulted. On the following day, the same toast was repeated at another alehouse. The obnoxious toast was, "May the skin of every loyal man be torn from his back, in order to make a drum for the reformers to beat to arms!" Was it possible, he would ask, for any person serving the king to hear such a toast without resenting it? There were only five or six soldiers in the room, and there were twenty of the inhabitants present, who attacked the military when they remonstrated on the impropriety of their conduct. One of the soldiers went out, in consequence, and called on his comrades to come and protect their companions from being murdered. In the mean time, the House was filled with townspeople, and about ten or fifteen soldiers procured admission, by breaking the pannels of the door, for they had been barricadoed out. They met with resistance, and they gave and received blows. There the business ended; but individuals in the town made the matter of more importance than it really was, and
336Mr. H. Clive
 contended that the hon. member, who wished too often to discuss a public question in detail, had either not heard him, or had misunderstood him. In place of sounding any alarum, he had implored the House to pause before, in the present state of the public mind, when too many were irritated without cause, it afforded any ground for increasing that agitation. What other object could these petitions all drawn up in a similar manner, and all complaining of the importation of corn have, but to raise the price of that necessary article? He had that day received a letter from a most respectable manufacturer in the neighbourhood of Manchester, requesting his opinion of the propriety of calling meetings and of petitioning, for the purpose of meeting these agricultural petitions. His answer was, that it would be better to wait until the objects of the petitioners were a little better defined.General Gascoyne
333 concurred with the hon. baronet in stating, that the petitioners mere most respectable individuals. They principally belonged to that class of society which had not hitherto taken so great a share in the consideration of public affairs, as he was persuaded it would be highly advantageous to the country they should do—he meant the middle class.
333Mr. Lambton
l.345l.,l.,344l. rose to enter his protest against the proceedings of ministers. He did not do so on the grounds which the hon. baronet had stated, because he was not prepared to say, that, if the expenditure of the household for the last five years were laid before parliament, the amount would appear to have been extravagant. If any thing could induce ministers to lay full information on the table of the House, before any money was voted, the statements made by an hon. gentleman on this side of the House, and by another hon. member on that side of the House, representing the difficulties and distress of the country, ought to have that effect. Yet ministers came forward and called upon the House to vote 850,000l.345l.,l.,344l.Mr. Hume
 stated, that observing the daily increase of these petitions, he could not avoid saying, that they appeared to him calculated to aggravate the general distress, by calling at such a time for the imposition of additional restrictions on the importation of grain. Could any man acquainted with the country, propose any measure more likely to increase the notorious sufferings of the commercial and manufacturing classes? The extent of those sufferings required of that House to give the fill up to industry, by the removal of all commercial restrictions; and he was the more surprised at the course to which these petitioners manifestly inclined, when it was recollected that the late corn law had altogether failed, as a measure of relief to the body for which it was intended.Mr. Hume
 in explanation, said, that he had merely alluded to the observations of the learned gentleman, with respect to the formation of an efficient administration, as a matter that had not at all entered the contemplation of the petitioners when they addressed the House.Mr. Spooner,
342l.l.,341 knowing the distress which the industrious manufacturers of Birmingham laboured under claimed the attention of the House while be offered a few observations. He meant when he came into the House to enter into a detailed statement of the distresses which prevailed in the country; but having heard what was said by the hon. member for Chichester, and the House appearing to feel with him the inconvenience of partial debates on such important subjects, he had come to a determination not to pursue the course he originally intended, and to that determination he would have adhered if it had not been for the most extraordinary reason which the learned member had just given to induce the House not to proceed with an inquiry. The learned gentleman had stated, that there, was not any party in that House fit to form an administration. This point, lie begged to observe, never entered the minds of the petitioners when they represented their grievances to parliament, in the only constitutional way which was open to, them. He hoped, therefore, the House would agree with him, that the reason given by the learned member was not sufficient to, induce them to refuse the prayer, of the petition—namely, to enter into full, deliberate, and solemn inquiry, as to the distressed state of the town and neighbourhood of Birmingham. He was sorry to hear the learned member say, that an inquiry so instituted would be of no use. He should feel deeply grieved if the opinion of the country agreed with that of the learned gentleman. For his own part, he relied with confidence on the wisdom of that House, and so likewise did the petitioners. They looked to parliament for assistance in this emergency, and-he trusted they
342l.l.,341Mr. Spooner,
 deprecated the continuance of any premature discussion on a question which every member must feel to be one of peculiar delicacy. He: therefore suggested that the similar petitions which were to be presented should be allowed to be placed on the table with out discussion, particularly as an hon.; member had already given notice of a motion on these petitions for a future day.Mr. Huskisson
 said, he held in his hand a petition from the merchants, bankers, and tradesmen, of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, in favour of parliamentary reform. The petition was signed by 3016 persons, and for the respectability of their characters he could vouch his own personal knowledge. The meeting at which the petition was agreed to was conducted with the greatest quietness and unanimity. It was the first meeting held under the restrictive laws passed by the last parliament. It sprung from that middle class of life, the respectability of whose characters and station placed their motives beyond suspicion. These petitioners looked for the correction of the evils under which the country now suffered, to a shortening of the duration Of parliaments, to the extension of the suffrage from decayed and notoriously dependent and corrupt boroughs to populous towns. The latter principle had been already acted upon, and he hailed it as a preliminary step in the successful progress of a constitutional reform in the representation. The petitioners begged not to be considered as the advocates of any mischievous doctrines—such as universal suffrage and annual parliaments.Sir M. W. Ridley
 considered that the gallant general had not a little contributed to that agitation which he deplored, having taken, in the earliest stage, the opportunity of giving a very decisive opinion on the object of the petitioners. He trusted the doors of that House would never be closed against any class of the people who conceived themselves aggrieved, whenever they approached it with temperate and respectful language. He deprecated the doctrine, that the agricultural body had a separate interest from the rest of the community. Believing the home market to be the most beneficial, the manufacturers had an equal interest in the prosperity of agriculture.Sir J. Newport
338 said, that the statement of the hon. gentleman opposite, and the sort of opposition the petition had met with, were, he conceived, most unfortunate. He could not help thinking, that those who made such statements, and offered such opposition, were consulting their feelings and passions, rather than their justice and discretion. Whether the statement of the hon. gentleman behind him, or that of the hon. secretary opposite, were the true one, mattered nothing. The complaint was of too grave and serious a nature not to call for the consideration of the House. He was surprised to hear the hon. member declare that he wished the petition to be received, with a view different from that of the hon. baronet, because it was a complaint which, when it had undergone investigation, would appear to be groundless. Investigation was all that was demanded; and he trusted it would be pursued further than a mere debate in that House. It was not the statement of one gentleman or of another—it was not what much oc-
338Lord Milton
 was unequivocally of opinion, that if a portion of the people had suffered any grievance for which the House could afford a remedy, it was then-duty to investigate its nature.Lord Milton
 said, that the petitioners asked only for inquiry; they did not presume to point out the means.Earl Temple
 moved that the bill be read a second time that day six months.Mr. Smith
 remarked that the sheriffs of London were in waiting with a petition against it, and professed his own opinion that the undertaking could lead to no other end than a sacrifice of capital on the part of those who embarked in it.Mr. Alderman Wood
 condemned the proposed measure, as a gross violation of private property.Mr. Lyttleton
 thought generally, that such undertakings were productive of benefit to the country, and that they ought to be patronised. He could see no reason to prevent the House from considering the present measure.Mr. Baring
 was of opinion that the good expected from the projected undertaking was not sufficiently extensive to induce the House to interfere with private property.Lord F. Osborn
347 said, that the public advantage, and not private interest
347Mr Alderman Heygate
 said, it had been stated that the city of London laid out large sums of money in improving the navigation of the Thames. If so, they had ex pended it to very little purpose; for goods were now six weeks, and even two months going down to that part of the; country where he resided. He would oppose a canal projected for mere speculative purposes, but he would support a measure which was likely to be so beneficial as the present.Mr. Cripps
 said, the city of London had not improvidently lavished their money in improving the navigation of the Thames. That part which was under their jurisdiction was very much improved.Mr. Bennet
 said, the projected canal would be a work of great public benefit. If they went into the committee, it would be found that the landholders were favourable to it.Mr. Hart Davies
 observed, that every person who traded between London and Bristol would be benefitted by the formation of the canal.Mr. Ascot
 gave notice that he should bring forward a motion for inquiry into the late transactions at Oldham.Sir F. Burdett
 was of opinion, that the arguments in favour of going into the committee greatly outweighed those that were adduced against that proceeding.Mr. Philips
365364363362361 expressed a hope, that whatever might be thought of the merit of the opinion, which appeared from him, in the paper on the table, the House would do him the justice to believe that that opinion was his genuine and conscientious impression; and he trusted that the same credit would be given to those great authorities with whom he had the honour to concur, and who were best qualified to judge upon the subject. Whether the report on the table was true or not, he was certainly responsible for it. If he erred, he erred with those who were best qualified to give a judicial opinion in that country. The opinion in that report was founded on a due consideration of the national contract at the union of the two countries—an union which had proved satisfactory to the people, and promoted the interests of that part of the country, for more than a century. That contract was not to be wantonly broken in upon. This was the substance of the report. If any change should be made, it ought to be the result of deep deliberation, and till that deliberation could be bestowed on the subject, the numbers of the judges ought not to be reduced. The appointment now in question was known to have arisen from the circumstance that one of the barons had found his duties in the court of Exchequer incompatible with his duties as chief commissioner of the jury court. The jury court had been lately introduced into Scotland. No new judges had been appointed for this court, in order that, if the experiment should be found unsatis-
365364363362361The Lord Advocate
369368367 apologized for the expression, and assured the House, he had no intention of giving offence to any honourable member; he was only desirous, when he heard the name of an individual whom he so much respected called into question, that the evening of his life should close with the same consideration which his former conduct had always commanded. But he returned to the consideration of that commission to which he had principally called the attention of the House; and as to the commissioners, with all the respect and esteem which he entertained for them personally, he must say that with the exception of' the chief commissioner, he did consider them to be unqualified. One of them, after practising at the bar, went into the country and lived upon his estate, without returning to his practice; another went to India, and, after staying there for some time, returned, and lived almost entirely in the country; and a third, having also practised some time at the bar, retired to his estate, improved the country round it, but never returned to the profession. Such persons might be well qualified to report upon the fees and emoluments of the officers, but not upon the constitution of the court. But he did not rely only on the objection to the competency of these commissioners; he would appeal to the unanimous opinion of those who were most competent to decide; of the lord president, of the lord justice clerk, the lord commissioner of the jury court, above all, he relied on the authority of the lord chief baron, an individual who had gone so lately from this country, after acquiring a thorough and extensive knowledge of the whole body of the laws of these kingdoms, and whose special duty it was, if it were any one's, to say whether an appointment of this nature was or was not necessary. He did not know what authority the chief-baron's name might have there; but certain he was, that in his (the lord advocate's) part of the country, they felt grateful to his majesty's ministers for having sent among them a man whose talents as a judge were not more respected than his virtues as an individual were admired. After attaining to very high honours in his profession, he declined those highest ones to which he might reasonably and certainly have aspired, and, in the discharge of his duty, was willing, at his time of life, to undertake that duty, accompanied as it was
369368367The Lord Advocate
 remarked, that individuals were always liable to indisposition. He had felt it necessary to make the observations which he had made in justice to the character of a distinguished individual now no more.The Lord Advocate
378l.377l.dictum376dictum375374 wished shortly to state the reasons which induced him to vote against the noble lord's motion. A report having been made by the commissioners appointed by parliament, that report was referred to the consideration of the chief judges of Scotland, who gave it as their decided opinion, for which opinion the grounds were distinctly stated, that the establishment of the court of exchequer ought to be kept in its full state; and now the noble lord called upon the House without previous inquiry, without any evidence, and without suggesting any facts on his own authority, to come to the conclusion that the constitution of the court of exchequer in Scotland ought to be changed—that that constitution for ages had been faulty—and that the decision of certain commissioners ought to be preferred to the deliberate judgment of the learned heads of all the different courts. Before he stated the reasons why he could not join in opinion with the noble lord, he must be allowed to say a few words (and few they should be, as he was not desirous of diverting the attention of members to any by-battle) on the conduct and motives of government. He did not complain of the hon. baronet for watching over the report, and protecting it with a sort of paternal solicitude; nor should he object to the introduction by him of any direct motion of censure upon ministers if he thought they had deserved it; but he begged the hon. baronet to observe, that if he supposed that, in times like the present, ministers had any other object in view than to redress and reform actual abuses,
378l.377l.dictum376dictum375374Lord Castlereagh
l.l.385384383l.382381380379 said, that he never had entertained a doubt that this was one of the motions which ministers would meet by the previous question. What course had the noble lord pursued? He had endeavoured to make people believe that ministers were a set of very ill-used gentlemen, and giving the real point in dispute the go-by, he had maintained, that his noble friend had introduced a new fangled, or to use his lordship's own most happily applied epithet, a fantastical proposition. His lordship had warned the new members to be on their guard, for if they voted with opposition they might get into great difficulties. If they supported the noble lord, they had
l.l.385384383l.382381380379Mr. Tierney
386 observed, in reference to what a noble lord had said, that he did not intend to confine his motion to the one at present before the House.386Lord A. Hamilton
 in explanation, said, that the learned lord seemed to have understood him as using the fact of the absence of the baron of the exchequer, as an "argumentum ad hominem:" but it was with quite a contrary intention. All that he meant to say was, that, judging from the absence of this gentleman for two or three years (a term which the learned lord had corrected, by substituting one year in its place), it appeared that four barons were sufficient for the business of the court.Lord A. Hamilton,
360359felo de se358357356355354353l.352351350349348 rose, in pursuance of notice, to move for a. copy of the late appointment of a fourth Baron of the Exchequer in Scotland, in opposition to the recommendation of the commissioners, who recommended the abolition of the office. It was unnecessary for him, on the present occasion to make any preface on the importance of the motion with which he meant to conclude. The importance of the subject in the present condition of the country, and in the present state of public feeling, must be generally allowed. If it had been necessary to excite attention to the dis-
360359felo de se358357356355354353l.352351350349348Lord Archibald Hamilton
 moved the second reading of this bill.Mr. C. Dundas
 was in favour of going into the committee. He did not think that the interests of the persons complaining would be materially affected by this bill; and such being the case, the House had a right to consider the public advantages that were likely to be derived from it.Lord Nugent
 seconded the motion, and contended that it must prove eminently advantageous to the trade and navigation of the Thames, as well as to those parts of the country through which the intended canal was to flow.Mr. Bright
 observed, that those who were favourable to this measure had given up the idea of making a cut to Eton; but still the canal would come within one mile of that college, and very great inconvenience would be the consequence of its approaching a place where a great number of young persons received their education. A very unpleasant intercourse, prejudicial to the morals and manners of the students, would be the result. The provost and fellows of Eton had also a wharf, which produced a considerable profit; and they were of opinion that the advantages which they derived from that wharf would be lost if the canal were formed.Mr. P. Moore
 opposed the motion, and defended the conduct of government in the appointment. The commissioners, he observed, had, in four short lines, without any reason assigned, decided against the appointment; but the judges, who had more experience of the business of the court, and who were men of unimpeachable integrity, had approved of it, and given their reasons for that approval.Mr. W. Dundas
 interposed. He suggested to the learned lord that no observations which might have been made by any hon. member ought to be called "an unfounded and illiberal attack," and that therefore the learned lord was not in order when he used the term.The Speaker
373372l.l.,l.371370 contended House were justified in distrust of his majesty's ministers this subject. Three cabinet ministers had voted in the first instance against the institution of a commission; but such a distrust, was further reasonable, because his majesty's ministers had done every thing in their power, first to delay, and afterwards to frustrate the objects of that commission. After the address which was voted had been carried to the foot of the throne, seven months elapsed before any thing was done in the business. At last the commission was appointed; but the learned lord had said that commission had traveled out of its jurisdiction in meddling at all with the constitution of the court, as regarded the judges. Now
373372l.l.,l.371370Sir John Newport
431430 said, that a petition coming from so great and respectable a body as the Chamber of Commerce of Glasgow, deserved the most favourable attention from that House. Every efficient means ought to be taken to promote their reasonable objects; every consideration was due to their reasonable claims. When he had a few days ago presented a similar petition to that House, from the merchants and traders of London, he moved that it should he on the table, in order to see, in the mean time, what the other great commercial towns would be disposed to do. He did so, because he felt convinced that whatever might be the disposition of parliament, no great practical benefit could be accomplished without the general concurrence of the country at large. His hon. friend who had just presented the petition before them, differed from him, but in very few and inefficient points. The House, he said, must have heard with pleasure from his hon. friend, that some of the principal manufactures which had been for some time depressed, had, at least partially, revived. And he agreed with his hon. friend in thinking, that, however gloomy and unpromising appearances might be, there was yet no serious apprehension (if proper exertions were made) that the, commercial and manufacturing interests of this country would be endangered in any material degree. During the war an extraordinary impulse was given to the manufacturing interests of England—an extensive, but an artificial trade prevailed, which could not be kept up in a time of peace. That state of things must give way to one of a more moderate, but more solid and more natural kind. He concurred with his hon. friend, that if the House would encourage the commerce and manufactures of the country by good laws—by wise and liberal regulations, that they would again behold the revival of commerce and of general prosperity. But it was only by great efforts that such desirable objects could be accomplished; they were not to fall asleep over the state of the country; they were not to suppose,
431430Mr. Baring
457 said, that his hon. friend's motion had been much misrepresented by the noble lord, and that the utmost, extent of his proposition went only to show, that if the weight of expenditure which bore down the people did not admit of complete alleviation, it might at least be rendered more tolerable. But if any one had only heard the latter part of the noble lord's speech, he would be inclined to think his hon. and gallant, friend was demanding some sacrifice, attended with shame, if not with more ruinous consequences. Now, nothing was more contrary to his intention he only Called for a committee of inquiry, and that after entering into such a detail as must impress every, man with the necessity for its appointment. In one particular, he could not agree with his hon. friend; he alluded to that part of his speech, in which he proposed to lessen the number of the cavalry establishment. He thought it advisable to preserve the skeleton of this establishment by keeping up a number of dismounted cavalry, to provide for any future occasion, in which it might be necessary to recur to it. Generally, however, be, thought the House and the country were deeply indebted to his gallant friend for the laborious and useful duty he had undertaken and so very ably discharged. And if after showing even a probability pf saving several hundred thousand pounds a year to the country
457Mr. Calcraft
445l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.444l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.;443l.l.l.l.;l.;l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.442l.l.l.l.441l.l.l.l.l.440l.l.l.439l.l.l.l.438437436l.l.l.l.,l.l.;l.;435434433 rose to direct the attention of the House to a subject at all times of the utmost importance, but. more peculiarly so at the present moment, when the country, labouring under the pressure of severe and accumulated distress, required every assistance which it was in the power of parliament to afford it. He felt that he must throw himself on the indulgence of the House, of which he certainly had need when he undertook the task of bringing under its consideration our existing military establishments, with a view to point out what might require amendment, and to suggest a remedy. He also felt, that in bringing forward this subject at the present time, he should have to encounter disadvantages and difficulties which, when he first turned his thoughts to it, he did not anticipate; for, however general the desire throughout the country might be to see some measure adopted, which should have for its object a retrenchment in the public expenditure, yet the unfortunate events which had lately occurred, had filled the minds of many with so much alarm, that however friendly they might be to the general principle of economy, he should find them at the outset, prejudiced against any proposition which could, by possibility, weaken the powers at the disposal of government. Yet, as his object was inquiry, and he should not presume to ask the House to adopt any definitive measures at his suggestion, he hoped, that all those who were friendly to economy, however much they might differ from him as to the extent of the danger by which we were threatened, would join in assisting to promote an inquiry, which could not possibly be attended with mischief, and might be productive of essential benefit to the country. Every thinking man who looked to the situation of this once flourishing country, and saw the misery which had overtaken every class of the
445l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.444l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.;443l.l.l.l.;l.;l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.442l.l.l.l.441l.l.l.l.l.440l.l.l.439l.l.l.l.438437436l.l.l.l.,l.l.;l.;435434433Colonel Davies
 expressed his surprise, that the gallant officer should say, the paymaster general was no public accountant.Mr. Long
 denied that he had made any such statement.Colonel Davies
 observed, that if the gallant officer would take the trouble of inquiring, he would find that the paymaster general was one of the greatest public accountants in the country.Mr. Long
 again denied the statement imputed to him by the right hon. gentleman.Colonel Davies
447 regretted his misconception of the gallant officer's words, assuring him that he had no disposition whatever to misinterpret any hon. member. But he was quite certain, that if the gallant officer would take the trouble of seeking accurate information, or would call at the office, and judge for himself, he would be convinced of his mistake in supposing that the business of the paymaster general's department could be consistently transferred to the war-office. The business of the paymaster-general's department was, indeed, of a very onerous description. The duties which were performed there were extremely various; the issue of the half-pay alone required considerable time and attention, especially in consequence of the arrangement for making that payment quarterly instead of half-yearly, as was the former custom. But the settlement of the different accounts in that department was attended with a great deal of trouble. Upon his (Mr. L.'s) introduction to this office, he found there was an arrear of unsettled accounts for no less than 25 years, nay since Mr. Burke's arrangement was adopted; and he had the satisfaction to say that all those accounts were now adjusted, and passed to the commission for auditing public accounts. This discharge of business accounted for the difference between the expence of the paymaster-general's department at the present day, compared with the period referred to by the gallant officer. But he would venture to say, that if the gallant officer would inquire and compare the present expense of this department with that incurred during the war, he would find that a greater reduction had taken place in that office since the conclusion of the peace, than in any other office concerned in the superintendence of the public expenditure. With regard to the superannuated allowances adverted to by the gallant officer, in no instance did any of those allowances exceed the amount settled by statute, while some of them fell short of that amount, as he (Mr. Long) showed by quoting the cases. When he became paymaster general, he found
447Mr. Long
 thought there was cause to complain that the public accountants connected with the right hon. gentleman's department were not sufficiently under the control of that department.Colonel Davies
 observed, that the power of the office alluded to was amply sufficient for any effective purpose of control upon the conduct of every individual connected with the department.Mr. Long
 in reply said that the statements he had made, and the arguments which he bad drawn from them, had been only met by the assertions of the hoble lord, which, however convincing or satisfactory to the House of Commons, could not be so to the country in general; With respect to the commission of military inquiry to which reference had been made by the noble lord, it had existed only during war. After entering into a recapitulation of the various topics he had urged in his opening speech he concluded by expressing his conviction that if the House would not be thought wholly inattentive to the interests of the country, they would promote an inquiry, which was calculated to effect so large a saving in the public expenditure.Colonel Davies,
 begged to offer some observations to the House as a military man. He objected to any decrease of the cavalry establishment, and contended that nothing was more useful than to keep up a large skeleton of officers and non-commissioned officers, who might be ready for active service upon future emergencies. In alluding to the forge-carts, which had been objected to on the ground of unnecessary expenditure, be observed, that they were on many occasions of the greatest service, and that much distress had been experienced from the want of them in the retreat of sir John Moore from Corunna. Adverting to the Tiding school, and to the number of staff employed he contended that they were both indispensable.Colonel Grant
 rose to explain. It had never been his intention, in his allusion to the forge carts, to maintain that they were not necessary on foreign service. The gallant colonel had completely misunderstood him in supposing he considered this expense as unnecessary one on actual service.Colonel Davies
459 said, he merely rose to state the grounds on which he meant to support the hon. member's motion for inquiry. To the various details of the question, whether regarding cavalry or infantry, he professed himself incompetent; but it was his wish to look a little beyond those details; and he thought that some inquiry ought to be made as to the necessity of keeping up the unheard-of military force now established in this country in a time of peace. He thought, too, that some
459Mr. Ellice
432 presented a petition from certain Woollen Manufacturers of Hawick. He said, that after the discussion which had taken place on the petition presented by the member for Glasgow, and after the observations which had fallen from his hon. friend (Mr. Baring), he was induced to say one or two words on presenting the petition which he held in his hand. As an instance of the advantage which the public derived from the discussions which had taken place in that House, he had now the honour of presenting, for the first time, a petition from a numerous and respectable body of manufacturers, praying to be relieved from the general restrictions which were placed on the trade of the country; they complained of the great distress and difficulties under which they laboured; and were of opinion that the state of things was such as could not long
432Mr. Ellice
429428427426425 said, he held in his hand a petition from the Chamber of Commerce of Glasgow, a body of gentlemen who were highly interested in the commercial prosperity of the country, praying the establishment of a free trade, and the removal of all restrictions upon commercial imports and exports. Upon a subject of such vital importance, he trusted the House would grant him its indulgence for a few moments. The presentation of a similar petition from the merchants of the city of London made it the more necessary that he should say a few words on the present occasion. The petitioners were of opinion, that the distresses of the commercial and manufacturing interests of this country were much increased, if not in a great measure caused by the various restrictions which impeded our imports from and exports to foreign countries. These restrictions having been so long continued in this country, led other nations into a belief that it was to such regulations we owed our prosperity, and thus induced them to, follow our example. The petitioners were of opinion, not only that such restrictions ought to be removed,
429428427426425Mr. Finlay
l;l.;l.;l.458l.l.; said, as the expenditure of the army amounted to nearly seven millions annually it became the House to consider whether or not some saving might not be effected, or, at all events, whether a committee should not be appointed to ascertain if it could be effected. An hon. friend of his had said, the noble lord was well paid for making an annual speech, but his hon. friend laid overrated the noble lord's deserts, for last year he made no speech; and on the army estimates being brought-down, referred the House merely to the dry details. The civil offices in the army department were, now in the fifth year of peace, greater than after the first four years of the last war. In the year 1792 one department cost 813l;l.;l.;l.458l.l.;Sir Henry Parnell
456455454l.453l.l.;l.452l.451450449l.448 observed, that he should not, upon the present occasion, anticipate the discussion of the army estimates which were so soon to be brought under the consideration of the House, but he thought it proper to make some remarks upon the statements or calculations of the gallant officer, in which, however, he should be as brief as possible. The gallant officer's animadversions upon the conduct of the several finance committees he should leave to other and more competent persons to answer; merely saying, that in his opinion those committees had performed their important duties with great zeal and ability. But with respect to the gallant officer's calculations upon our military expenditure, he must say, that he could not place much reliance upon their accuracy, from a recollection of the extreme erroneousness of the hon. officer's calculations on the same subject upon a former occasion. Upon the increase of our military establishment since the last year, which naturally gave vise to an increase of expenditure, he did not think it necessary to make any reply to the gallant officer, as the House and the country were fully aware of the reasons connected with our internal situation
456455454l.453l.l.;l.452l.451450449l.448Lord Palmerston
 apologized for the mistake, and fixed the motion for the 8th of June.Mr. Hobhouse
 moved the order of the day for the House to resolve itself into a committee on this bill. On the motion that the Speaker do leave the chair,Lord Castlereagh
*l.l.,l.464l.,l.l.l.;l.;463l.,462 said, he wished, before the question was decided, to make a few observations; and, in the first place, he would state with regard to the notice he had given to move a clause in the committee for the exclusion of persons, from that House who received pensions, from the civil list, that he had abandoned that idea, and would proceed in a different way. He could not help expressing his surprise that ministers had thought proper to introduce the civil list to the House in the manner they had done; because he felt that it was neither advantageous to the Crown, nor befitting the present situation of the country. Let the House always bear it in view, that the civil list now, called for was founded on the report of a committee appointed by the ministers, of the Crown—they having, in the first; place, expressly refused the motion of his right hon. friend (Mr. Tierney), that persons, papers, and records, should be examined. The only persons, therefore, who were examined, were the ministers themselves; and now, without having any new information of any sort or kind laid before parliament, they thought fit to come down to the House and call for a civil list, exactly of the same amount, precisely in the same manner, and with the very identical machinery, as had been witnessed in 1816. He perfectly recollected the arguments used by the noble lord in 1816, and by the late Mr. Perceval in 1812. At those periods, when the different discussions on the civil list took place, ministers exclaimed, "Don't interfere with the question now; the time will come, and probably very soon, when the whole subject will be brought under the consideration of parliament." That time had come; and the way ministers now used the House was, to negative every motion for inquiry to deny every paper called for, and to refer them, forsooth, to the documents of 1816. He for one, considered the civil list as a great deal too large under any circumstances; but, under the existing circumstances of the country, it appeared to him to be so large that it must excite out of doors very unpleasant feelings. The House: would recollect that the civil list was constructed on the estimate of three of the most expensive years that had ever occurred, and
*l.l.,l.464l.,l.l.l.;l.;463l.,462Mr. Bennet
 in the absence of his hon. colleague (sit F. Burdett), wished to correct an error in the entry-book, as to a notice given: by the hon. baronet. It was supposed that he had given notice of a motion relative to the inquest at Oldham, but the intended motion would refer to the transactions at Manchester on the 16th of August last, and would be brought forward on the earliest open day after the holidays.Mr. Hobhouse,
l.l.l. said, that, as far as; his knowledge extended, the emoluments of the office of lord-lieutenant were completely unequal to defray its necessary; expenses. One noble duke, lately deceased, who had held the situation, had crippled his fortune considerably, although the salary had been improved. Parliament, feeling that the salary was inadequate to support the dignity of the situation, had thought proper to raise it to; 30,000l.l.l.Lord Castlereagh
468l. not having been in the House at the period alluded to by the right hon. baronet, could not express any opinion on the facts stated by him, but, from his connexion with Ireland, he felt himself called on to state, that the salary now allowed to the lord-lieutenant was not too great when they considered the dignity of the situation. It was, he believed, a well-known fact that the late duke of Richmond suffered severely in his private fortune in consequence of the smallness of his allowance. He could also state, that the late lord-lieutenant had said that the salary, though then increased to 30,000468l.Mr. C. Grant,
470l.469l.l.l.l. complained that they were called on to vote a sum of 850,000470l.469l.l.l.l.Mr. Tierney
472l.l.471l. said, that as to the observation made, that the House had taw information; before them respecting the Irish civil list for coming to a decision, he apprehended they had. There had never been occasion to bring the civil list of Ireland before parliament with a view of calling for any supply to make up its deficiency. It had never been in debt; while the civil list of England had been several times under consideration, either with the view. Of supplying its deficiency, or with, the view of transferring some of its charges to other funds. Yet the civil list of Iceland had been brought under review. The sum of 225,000472l.l.471l.Lord Castlereagh
474 said, he had never lent himself to any such proposition as that of the abolition of the office of lord lieu-
474Mr. Tierney
l.475l.l. allowed, that it was not proper for an English member to interfere to propose the abolition of such an office as that of lord lieutenant of Ireland, and he thought, that whatever little pomp remained in the capital of Ireland, should not be abolished. But, he observed, in general, that propositions for the increase of the salaries of offices passed very easily in the House, and that during all the time he had sat there, he had never known any reduction of those salaries to be made. When 10,000l.475l.l.Mr. Baring
l.l.l.473 said, that his late right hon. friend Mr. Perceval had brought forward the motion for augmenting the salary of the lord lieutenant, after he had ascertained that no lord lieutenant could hold the office without expending double the sum allowed. The noble duke who then held the office was not aware of the investigation, and to any inquiry of the kind he would have turned a deaf ear. It was all done without his knowledge. It was thought unjust that the lord lieu-
l.l.l.473Mr. Wellesley Pole
 on examining the entry-book, said, the notices appeared to be as its was now described.The Speaker,
l.s.l.s.l.l.s.l.l.d.s.l.l.l.l. proceeded to observe, that it was not intended to make any material difference between the vote of the last and the estimates of it was not intended to make any material difference between the vote of the last and the estimates of the present year. He believed the propriety of the addition which had been made to the marines was not likely to be called in question. On this occasion, he should only move for a vote, of the sum of 500,000l.s.l.s.l.l.s.l.l.d.s.l.l.l.l.Sir George Warrender
l.l, contended, that the office of lord lieutenant of Ireland was al together as useless as it was expensive. He was of opinion that having separate governments for England and for Ireland, led to inconvenience and embarrassment. At present it was well known that a serious division existed between the members of the government of that country. To the present lord lieutenant and the right hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Grant) every thanks and gratitude were due. That right hon. gentleman had displayed both policy and liberality, integrity in his views, and conciliation in his manner; but he regretted to say that other members of the Irish government were not distinguished for similar virtues. He believed that the office1 of lord lieutenant, instead of an expence of 30,000l.l,Sir Henry Parnell
 wished to be understood that he had not imputed the least blame to earl Talbot. As to the propriety of retaining the office of lord lieutenant, there was a difference in his opinion and that of his right hon. friend, of the view taken of that question in Ireland; and the difference was easily accounted for. His right hon. friend (Mr. W. Pole) had spent most of his time in the Castle at Dublin, where there was not a whisper, no doubt, against such an office. He (sir H. P.) on the other hand, spent most of his time in the country in Ireland, where he often heard the opinion that a change might advantageously take place in the executive government of Ireland. It was not his wish to abolish the office of lord lieutenant without finding a substitute; but he thought the business of the police of Ireland would be mach better managed by appointing lords lieutenants of counties, after the English system. Much difficulty was at present felt from the want of authorities in the different counties, to communicate with the government, as the governors of counties did not answer this purpose. Formerly there was a strong opinion in favour of the office of lord lieutenant, but at present the general opinion respecting it was much changed.Sir H. Parnell
 expressed his regret and astonishment to hear any Irish member; suggesting in that House, the policy of abolishing the office of lord lieutenant of Ireland. Dublin had suffered most severely by the Act of Union, and no saving that might follow the abolition of the office could be compared to the destruction which that measure would bring upon the citizens of Dublin. Every one at all acquainted with the state of Ireland, knew how much, and how severely she suffered by absentees, but if the office of lord lieutenant, the last remaining inducement for men of property to remain at home, was abolished, it would have the effect of banishing them altogether from Ireland.Mr. Shaw
 said, he had never entertained the idea of the abolition of the lord-lieutenancy, and begged not to be implicated in that charge.Sir John Newport
l.l.467l.l. said, there was not any thing like the same degree of splendor now kept up by the lord-lieutenant of Ireland as there had been at former periods when the salary was not so large. He would state further, that since the periods when the increase was granted, a great alteration had taken place in the state of the currency; so that 20,000l.l.467l.l.Sir J. Newport
l.466l.l.l.,l.l.data expressed a hope that some documents would be laid before the House with respect to the manner in which the civil list for Ireland was disposed of. He had called for certain l.466l.l.l.,l.l.dataSir J. Newport
476 said, he could not but deeply lament, that, in the present state of the country, ministers had not recommended and acted upon that system of economy, the necessity for which was so universally admitted. Instead of the measure now before them, he had hoped that ministers, on the part of the Crown, would have stated that a considerable diminution of the civil list expenditure was intended; because, however desirable it was to support the dignity of the Crown, still, at a period like the present, the sufferings and privations of the people ought to be attended to and removed as much as possible. With this feeling, he conceived the greatest ornament of the Crown at this moment would be economy and retrenchment. Everyman who felt the real state of the country must be convinced that its prosperity could alone be hoped for by considerably diminishing the public expenditure. He regretted that a proposition of that kind had not been made on the part of ministers, particularly with reference to the civil list. He conceived that a well-con-
476Mr. Curwen
477 said, that in 1815 a committee of the House of Commons investigated this branch of expenditure and recommended that the present allowances should be granted. That recommendation was acceded to without opposition; and the provision then suggested, and which was made on a general view of the subject, had been continued ever since. Prior to that period particular sums were granted for particular branches of expense to which our ambassadors were liable, but it was thought better to give a specific salary. He could assure the hon. member that the subject had undergone a great deal of consideration, with a view to the greatest possible economy, and at the same time to avoid impoverishing or embarrassing individuals employed as ambassadors. There were,
477Lord Castlereagh
478l.l. said, that the noble lord, in speaking of the salaries granted to our ambassadors, seemed to have forgotten the depreciated state of the currency when the last arrangement was made. The sum of 12,000478l.l.Mr. Philips
 said, that when the arrangement was made, it was specifically agreed that our ambassadors should have a fixed salary, independent of any alteration in the currency. That salary was to cover all extraordinaries, and was not liable to be increased on account of any unfavourable fluctuation in the foreign exchanges. As to the hon. member's information relative to the payment of foreign ambassadors, he knew not the source from which he had derived it, and of course could not answer for its correctness.Lord Castlereagh
 said, the observations that had fallen from the hon. member afforded a further proof, of the necessity of that discussion and inquiry relative to the items of the civil list which had been so repeatedly called for by gentle-men on his side of the House, and as repeatedly refused by the gentlemen opposite. A committee had, it appeared, sat in 1815, and it was said that their decision proceeded on such grounds, that there could be no mistake in the correctness of their calculations. It was, however, properly replied, that the government had stripped that committee of all those powers which could alone enable them to perform their duties effectually. The hon. member for Taunton had truly stated, that ministers had prevented a. close, vigorous, and efficient investigation of every part of the civil list expenditure, and had refused to the committee those facilities by the use of which alone they could hope to arrive at a just conclusion. But, supposing, in 1815, a committee, clothed with such power as would have enabled them to have properly examined the subject, had been appointed, still a fresh inquiry was, he contended, necessary, because the two periods were wholly dissimilar, and the state of the country now was far more critical.Mr. D. W. Harvey
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l. observed, that the allowances granted to our ambassadors and envoys were extravagant and enormous. He did not wish the country to be niggardly towards those individuals, but he conceived that it would not be derogatory to the dignity of this government if they were put on the same footing as one of the greatest monarchs of Europe—he meant the king of France—placed the ambassadors of that nation. He was credibly Informed that there were but two classes of French ambassadors, the higher and the interior. The members of the first class were paid 6,000l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Monck
 said, he had derived his information from a French gentleman who was in the diplomatic line.Mr. Monck
 said, that having had an opportunity of seeing our ambassadors in other countries, he thought it but an act of candour to say, that there were claims made on the hospitality of the English ambassadors which were not made on the ambassadors of any other court.Sir R. Wilson
479 expressed his satisfaction at finding that petitions of this kind were presented from such extensive manufacturing, districts as those of Manchester and its vicinity. It was a convincing proof of the progress of information on the true principle of commercial policy. It was to be lamented that, while such respectable bodies were proceeding thus, another body of persons, the agriculturists, should continue to, call for separate protection and relief. He regretted to find that the exploded doctrine of partial protection should still be adhered to by any one set of persons in the country. It was impossible that any such protection, extended exclusively to one branch of society, should not injure not only itself, but the other branches also. He was of opinion
479Mr. Philips
510 although decidedly averse to the wild theory of which so much had been lately said, and which was termed "parliamentary reform," had no hesitation in declaring his unqualified approbation of the bill, as far as it went to disfranchise the borough of Grampound; and that opinion he had stated the first moment the subject came before the House The leaning of his mind was in favour of transferring the elective right either to the
510Mr. Grenfell,
511 bore testimony, from local and personal knowledge, to the respectability of the freeholders of the two hundreds to which it was proposed to extend the right of voting for the future representatives of Grampound, declaring that he had no doubt, upon such an arrangement, the members would the returned for, that district upon such an arrangement the members would be returned for that district upon as independent principles as for any county in England. He was decided advocate for the principle of representation upon property for than population; and he though that the signal merit of the representation no in that House was, that it did not amount to a, direct delegation from the people; for it would be impossible for an assembly controlled by the mass of the people to be co-existent with any other, branch of the constitution The events of the few last years had sufficiently proved
511Mr. Davies Gilbert
 in explanation, said, that he was under the necessity of pursuing the course in Ireland alluded to by the hon. baronet, in order to settle the competition between the different boroughs.Lord Castlereagh,
 explained. He thought that the hon. member could want no assistance from any one to understand the nature of the Cornish boroughs, because, if he was not mistaken, the hon. gentleman had first entered that House as member for Grampound.Mr. D. Gilbert
520l.519 in reply, observed, that he had but a very few words to offer tbthe1 House. He had heard, with great pain the declaration of the noble lord opposite, and he did hope to have heard him, in the course of the debate, retract: what he had said; but in that expectation he was disappointed. At the end of December last, the noble lord would recollect, that he (lord John Russell) had given notice of his intention to bring in a bill to transfer the right of voting from Grampound to Leeds. Not one word of objection was, upon that occasion offered by the noble lord; but he did understand
520l.519Lord John Russell,
 rose to explain. He was fearful that some misunderstanding had occurred between himself and the noble lord: at the same time he had no wish to conceal his real sentiments upon the point to which the noble lord had alluded. He could have wished that the noble lord had felt himself at liberty to remodel his bill upon the principles observed in former cases: but he must contend that he had acted with every public and private candour towards the noble lord.Lord Castlereagh
521 presented a petition from John Eyles, Warden of the Fleet, stating, that during the last parliament, in consequence of an order issued by the then Speaker of the House of Commons, he had liberated from confinement in the Fleet prison Robert Christie Burton, esq., claiming privilege of parliament as member for the borough of Beverley. He, the warden, had since
521The Attorney General
 gave notice, that on the 15th of June, he would submit to the House a resolution respecting the right assumed by judges of preventing, by imprisonment and fine, the publication of proceedings in a court of justice. He was sorry that so important a subject should be brought forward by one so little competent to recommend it to the consideration of the House; but he felt himself bound, unless some hon. member of greater weight, or more extensive legal knowledge, would undertake the task, to submit a motion on the subject to the House.Mr. Hobhouse
nem. con. moved, that the order of the day for the second reading of the Grampound Disfranchisement bill be now read; which having been done, his lordship moved, "that the resolutions of that House, of the 5th of July last, be read." The clerk read the resolutions, as follow:—nem. con.Lord J. Russell
489l.488487486***485484l.l.483l.,l.l.l.l.482l. then said, that lie felt it necessary, in this stage of the bill which he had been instructed to bring forward, to state briefly the result of the examination which had induced the House to come to the resolutions that had just been read. Those who were in the late parliament would recollect, that a petition had been presented against the return of the members for the borough of Grampound, and that the committee to whom the petition was referred had made a report imputing gross corruption to many of the electors in that borough, and the result was, that the law officers of the Crown were ordered to institute prosecutions against those electors. Subsequently, copies of the indictments on which 23 of the voters of Grampound had been found guilty were laid before the House, together with other documents connected with the election. On these grounds he moved that the House should go into a committee on the abuse of the elective franchise in Grampound. That proposition was immediately assented to by the noble lord opposite, and the committee was appointed. On proceeding with the inquiry, it was clearly proved, by the evidence of Mr. Teed, that instructions had been given by sir Manasseh Lopez to distribute sums of money to the electors of Grampound, so as to secure a majority of them. It was also proved, by an individual who belonged to Grampound, that he had seen sir M. Lopez on this subject; and that he had informed him of his having collected together a number of voters who were ready to receive his money, and in return to give him their votes. That number, it appeared, was objected to by the agent of sir Manasseh, because it did not comprise a majority of the electors. The witness stated, that a number, constituting a majority, was afterwards collected, and that each of the parties received thirty-five pounds as the price of his vote, a sum with which several of them expressed themselves dissatisfied. It further appeared, that in consequence of this dissatisfaction they gave their votes in favour of other persons. It seemed, that one of the electors had got a list, containing the names of 62 persons who had the right to vote, and of whom 58 had voted; of these 58 no less than 47 had the sum of 35489l.488487486***485484l.l.483l.,l.l.l.l.482l.Lord J. Russell
495l.,494493492491pro tanto;490 said, that although he had no intention to oppose the second reading; he felt it due to the noble lord, and to the House, to offer some observations on the subject. Whatever steps might afterwards be taken, he thought this the convenient moment for making a few observations on the principles involved in the bill. He should endeavour to imitate the noble lord, who had in the most candid and fair manner stated his views of the question, and the object he proposed to himself in this bill; and if he could not agree entirely with the noble lord, it would be from a different view taken by him of the local circumstances of the borough of Grampound. As far as the principle of the measure was concerned, so far as it was opened by the noble lord, there was no difference of opinion between them. That was, he agreed with the noble lord, that where it was proved satisfactorily that persons having an elective franchise had abused that trust, measures should be taken to protect the security of election and purity of election against the repetition of such abuse. Any difference of opinion arose not from any alterations proposed to be made in the elective franchise in Grampound, because, after the election committee had made their report, he had concurred in promoting further inquiry, and after that inquiry he had concurred in a resolution which stood on their records without a dissentient voice—that further measures were called for by the corruption detected in the borough of Grampound. Up to this point he and the noble lord understood
495l.,494493492491pro tanto;490Lord Castlereagh
 said, he heard with some surprise and great sorrow, the speech of the noble lord. When the resolutions were brought forward by his noble friend, containing a declaration of the principle on which the House would act in case of boroughs convicted of corrupt practices, viz. by transferring the right of election to populous towns, the noble lord had undoubtedly objected to the declaration of such a general principle; but he (Mr. T.) had understood the noble lord to say, that if his noble friend would confine himself to the particular case of Grampound, he should not be adverse to that mode of proceeding: and he was confirmed in his opinion, that such was the impression produced by the words of the noble lord, by a recollection of the eagerness with which he (Mr. T.) had urged his noble friend to close with the proposition of the noble lord, and to accept of a certain advantage rather than endeavour in vain to get more.Mr. Tierney
 said, he felt it to be due to the right hon. gentleman to prevent his reasoning on a misapprehension, by reminding him that he had distinctly reserved his opinion, on the ground that he was not acquainted with the local circumstances of Grampound.Lord Castlereagh
501500499498497496 continued.—He certainly had understood the noble lord at first to agree to his noble friend's proposition. In two or three days, however, the noble lord came down, and in a more guarded manner reserved to himself the right of subsequently expressing it as his opinion that the proposed reform should be of a more gradual kind—that the elective franchise should be given to some of the hundreds in the vicinity of Grampound. The ground of this was, that the innocent might not be punished with the guilty. What he had wished, and he believed this was the wish and the hope of many others and a very large portion too, in the country, was, that a measure, which, at the moment it was known seemed to give general satisfaction, should be carried into effect. It would be useless to deny, that at the moment this proposition was introduced, and was supposed to have received
501500499498497496Mr. Tierney
s.s.503502 observed, that after the gross corruption which had been-proved to exist in Grampound, he was glad there was no difference of opinion in the-House as to the necessity of some remedy, and he hoped that the present parliament
s.s.503502Mr. Wynn
516515 thought that the question; had hot been placed in the true point of view. It was admitted that some measure was required in order to prevent the recurrence of those practices which had, up to a certain point, prevailed in the borough of Grampound. It was not necessary, however, for that purpose, that the borough should be disfranchised. The; ordinary practice in such cases had been to admit a certain number of new voters,
516515Mr. Bathurst
517 said, that although this debate had been protracted beyond the time, which, he presumed, it was originally intended to occupy, yet he would beg leave to detain the House a little longer, in order to say a few words which might explain his reasons for supporting the motion of the noble lord. As right hon. gentlemen on the other side of the House had thought it due to themselves, and due to their characters for fairness and candour, to state the reasons of their support to the measure before the House, he trusted they would allow him, in justice to his own character for fairness and candour, to make the same explanations, although they would proceed upon principles totally different from those of the right hon. gentlemen. Upon the present occasion, he thought the House did perfectly right in recognizing, as a principle, that the representation of the people wanted some reform. He should himself have taken the opportunity of submitting a similar proceeding to them before, if he had not thought that the noble lord who introduced the bill might have lost as much by his (Mr. Hobhouse's) alliance in that House as he had lost in the country by the alliance of the noble lord oppo-
517Mr. Hobhouse
518 in contending for the propriety of this bill going to a Commit—tee, reviewed the various objections which had been taken to it by hon. gentlemen, and the propositions which had grown out of it. Some of those objections
518Mr. A. Moore,
480 bore testimony to the respectability of the petitioners. He hoped that their liberal and enlightened views on the subject of our commercial policy would be acted upon. Whenever any
480Lord Stanley
509l.l.l.l.508507l.506few505 said, that if the intended and avowed purpose of the bill had been merely to disfranchise the borough of Grampound, and if it had been left to be filled up in the committee by what mode the vacancy thus occasioned in the representation was to be supplied, he should not have expressed any opinion in the
509l.l.l.l.508507l.506few505Mr. Canning
504 fully concurred in the arguments of the noble lord, and of those gentlemen who supported the bill. He thought that such a measure was absolutely necessary at present. In reply to the clamour which was so much heard out of doors, it had often been said, "Show us the particular evil or imperfection of which you complain, and; see whether we will not apply a remedy." Now Grampound was this case: here was art evil admitted on all hands to exist; and he conceived that they would be given but too just a ground for some of the charges which were made (he thought unjustly) against them, if they did not deal with the present case as it deserved.
504Mr. Sumner
 presented a Petition from the merchants, manufacturers, and other inhabitants of Manchester, praying a removal of those restrictions by which our commercial intercourse with other nations was impeded.Mr. Blackburne
513 observed, that it required no great sagacity to foresee that the fate of this bill would be like that of many other bills of a similar nature, upon which ministers had smiled in the first instance, but from which they had afterwards withdrawn their support. The noble lord opposite would take no measure in favour of parliamentary reform, unless, driven to it by necessity. The noble lord would not agree to carry a single particle of elective franchise out of Cornwall, unless the county were so full that there was no longer room to put a member into it. He (Mr. Warre) was an enemy to all wild and sweeping plans of reform; but they who considered the present system of representation so all wise and all perfect as to admit of no improvement, erred in the other extreme, and he was anxious to avoid extremes of every kind. No one could deny that a
513Mr. Warre
 in explanation of his proposition, stated, that the wish just expressed by the hon. member for Surrey was that which he contemplated, namely, that in order to give Yorkshire its due share in the representation, there should be two members for the West Riding, instead of those now returned for Gram-pound; and that upon the next proved case of delinquency in any other borough there should be two members also for the North and East Ridings. Hence a due share of influence on the representation would be given to the manufacturing and agricultural interests, for he had no desire to grant any undue ascendancy to either, and it was obvious that the two members for the West riding would be returned by the manufacturing interest, while it was equally obvious that the members for the other Ridings would be returned by the agricultural or landed interest.Mr. Beaumont,
s.l.514 rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the noble lord opposite to a point which had been urged by his hon. friend the member for Water-ford, and which the noble lord had not satisfactorily explained. In answer to his hon. friend's argument, founded on the course pursued by the noble lord at the period of the Union with Ireland, the noble lord had alleged that in that case he had been compelled to select. Some members were to be retained, others to be rejected; and population and taxation had been made the criterion; but, if that principle for selection was not the best that could be adopted, why did the noble lord then make choice of it? The noble lord had borne testimony to the soundness of that principle in a way which he would find it extremely difficult to get rid of. When he (Mr. William Smith) recollected that Cornwall at the present moment returned 44 members to that House, he could not but consider it highly objectionable that the elective privilege taken from Grampound should be retained within that
s.l.514Mr. William Smith
 allowed that he did, certainly, thirty years ago, represent a Cornish borough; and if he were to state the mode in which he had been returned for that borough, perhaps the manner of his election would not be sanctioned by the public approbation.Mr. W. Smith
 obtained leave to bring in a bill to repeal so much of the 39th Elizabeth, the 21st; James 1st, the 4th and 9th George 1st, and the 5th, 6th, 8th, 26th, and 27th of George 2nd, as enacted capital punishments on crimes specified therein. Also a bill to repeal so much of the 1st and 2nd of Philip and Mary, the 18th Charles 2nd, the 9th George 1st, and the 12th George 2nd, chap. 29, as enacted capital punishments on the commission of certain offences specified therein.—The hon. and learned member then said, that he had on a former occasion given notice of a bill to consolidate the laws on forgery; he would now, with the leave of the House, withdraw that notice, and move for leave to bring in a bill "for mitigating the severity of punishment in certain cases of forgery and the crimes connected therewith; and also for more effectually detecting the forgery of notes or bills of the Bank of England."—The notice was withdrawn, and leave given to bring in the bill. The hon. and learned member then brought in the bill, which, with the two already mentioned, were read a first time.Sir J. Mackintosh
512 was of opinion that the concluding observations of the hon. member who last spoke, were not called for by the subject under discussion. He thought that the House was bound to examine in what part of the country the greatest portion of the people ought to be represented; and he objected to throwing the borough of Grampound into the adjoining hundreds, upon the ground that the county of Cornwall was already more than sufficiently represented. It mattered little whether the members returned were chosen by the inhabitants of Grampound or by those of the adjacent hundreds; they were still members for the county of Cornwall, and would, in the execution of their parliamentary duties, look especially to the interests of that county. In the present case, an occasion offered for letting in a part of that large portion of the people who were insufficiently represented; and he thought that the House was bound to avail itself of the opportunity. In what quarter of the kingdom did the want of adequate representation more decidedly exist than in Yorkshire? The noble lord opposite had said that he did not consider amount of numbers and contribution in the way of taxation as affording a ground for superior representation. He was surprised at hearing such a proposition from the noble lord, when the noble lord himself in the case of the Union between Ireland and this country, had acted directly upon a contrary principle. Upon that occasion it had been matter of arrangement, in selecting those places which should be struck off and those which should be represented, that the numbers
512Sir John Newport
 said, that if the House allowed in this case time for offering new securities, they must allow it in every other case, and petitions might be presented to the House on the very last day of the period described for recognizances, in order to obtain further time to substantiate securities. He knew nothing of the securities in this case, but it appeared probable, from the statement of the hon. baronet, that they would be ultimately rejected. It was fair, however, to allow further time to produce affidavits to establish the securities already offered. The hon. gentleman referred to a decision of the House in a similar case last year.Mr. Wynn
 was of opinion that this was a case which did not justify the introduction of a formal motion with respect to it. Neither of the individuals who had been proposed as securities were fit to be received in that capacity. One of them was in the service of an eminent distiller; and the other" was a young man, without house or property. These facts were sworn to by many respectable persons; the affidavits were on the table, and he could see no reason for re-examining those persons.Sir J. Stewart
 was of opinion that a committee should be appointed, to inquire into the state of the farmers; for if some alleviation of their burthens did not take I place, the growth of corn must be checked, and we should be left entirely at the mercy of the foreign grower. He hoped that, whenever the committee should be appointed, it would consist of both interests; for if it were confined to one, the country would look upon it as of that kind from which no benefit could be derived.Mr. Curwen
535 of Norfolk, thought that the system of taxation which had been so long pursued was the chief cause of that distress and depression which were felt by the farmers and other classes. He agreed that the farmer should be allowed a fair remunerative price for his produce;
535Mr. Coke,
 observed, that as the document now called for was a public one, he had no objection to the production of it. He trusted that no hon. member would at present enter on the subject, as it might lead to a premature discussion, which, on a question like the present, had better be avoided.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. and learned gentleman who had spoken last, he thought it necessary to caution those who were not intimately acquainted with the subject against deciding rashly that the representation of Scotland must necessarily be defective, because it differed from that of England. The two systems might differ materially, and yet each be well adapted to the circumstances of the respective countries.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed his obligation to his noble friend for bringing forward a subject so disgraceful to Scotland. The caution of his hon. and learned friend not to consider a general reform of the representation of England as necessarily connected with an alteration of the county representation of Scotland, was highly proper; because the two systems were wholly dissimilar in principle and in practice. The other caution of the right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer savored too much of party principle; and he hoped the House would not, in the decision of such a question, be actuated by party views.Sir R. Fergusson
 said, that since the con stitution allowed absent persons to be elected, it would be hard to disqualify them on account of their absence, since any person who chose might insert in a petition that the person so elected was not duly qualified. He was for the original motion.Mr. Bathurst
 said, that if the petitioner at the time of the election, had called for the production of the qualification, the present difficulty would have been avoided. [Mr. Tierney—"He could not; Mr. Antrobus was not present"] Be that as it might, the right hon. gentleman, he apprehended, was in a mistake when he said the House was called on to dispense with an act of parliament; for, as far as he recollected, the provision in question was not contained in an act, but in a resolution of that House. When a petition was offered against the return of a member, he was bound, within fifteen days, to give in the terms of his qualification, in order that the petitioner might have the best means of opposing him. Now all that was asked at present was, not that the qualifications should be withheld, but that the agent might be allowed to give in the terms of it, in the unavoidable absence of the member himself; and by that course no inconvenience could arise either to the sitting member or to the other parties, nor could he see any of those evil consequences which the right hon. gentleman apprehended.Mr. Courtenay
542 opposed the motion. If a
542Mr. Calcraft
 said, that in the case which the hon. member had supposed, of a candidate's qualification not being satisfactory, that candidate could not be elected, and therefore the evils apprehended could not occur. The hon. gentleman seemed to anticipate that the con sequence of the House acceding to the present motion would be one seriously affecting the constitution of the House. He appeared to think that to dispense with the standing orders of the House upon the present occasion, would be to act in also lute opposition to the reluctance which they at other times manifested to permit any infringement. Thus he had instanced their determination not to permit the interference of any peer in elections; but here was the difference of the cases—that in the latter, instance, to dispense with the standing orders of the House would be to do so to their own wrong; but the question before the House at that moment was that such dispensation should be permitted in order to do right to another. He therefore, thought that as I good and as solid grounds had been laid for such a deviation from forms as could possibly be adduced.Mr. Robinson
 concurred in the opinion that this was a matter requiring attentive consideration; and therefore in order to afford members an opportunity of giving it every attention, he should move that the further consideration of the motion be adjourned until tomorrow.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 although he supposed there could be no doubt that such a person as Mr. Antrobus really existed, maintained that it was clear he had been described as resident in a place where he did not reside This was a point of great importance, and he felt obliged to the right hon. gentleman who had proposed to adjourn the further consideration of the debate.Mr. Calcraft,
545 begged to call the attention of the House to a singular case, and one which he considered to be much stronger than that which had just come before them. At the last election for the borough of Boston a gentleman of the name of Ellis had been returned by a considerable majority. The validity of this election was petitioned against by the other candidate, who represented that Mr. Ellis was ineligible under the Grenville act. The consideration of this petition stood for the 6th of June, but it was physically impossible for Mr. Ellis, and that without any imputation of negligence upon his part, to appear by that day. What he should wish would be, that the House should postpone the consideration to a day, the earliest at which it might be possible for Mr. Ellis to be heard. There was this difference between this case and that which had been just submitted to the House; namely, that Mr. Ellis had no agent in this country at all—no one to appear for him. By the 6th of June, there could be no person present to say who should be nominee for Mr. Ellis. It was on these grounds that he should move to postpone the hearing of this petition to some more distant day. The House were in possession of the grounds on which this gentleman's return was opposed: it was, that Mr. Ellis was supposed to have held an office under the Crown coming under the description of offices created since the statute of queen Anne, in consequence of which he was disqualified. It was not his intention to dispute this position, for he believed that that office would be held a disqualification; but at the same time he was far from believing that it was a disqualification against which there might not be good grounds of defence, and it was known that many cases where such defence had been pleaded had arisen under
545Mr. Courtenay
537 rose in pursuance of the motion of which he had given notice. As he understood that no opposition was to be made to it, he should content himself with stating the nature of the document for which he intended to move, and the reason which induced him to move for its production. The document which he wished to be laid before the House was a document containing the number of persons entitled to vote for counties in Scotland: it was annually made up, and therefore could be obtained without the slightest difficulty. The object for which he wanted it was to afford assistance to himself and to the House in the discussion of a question which he was inclined, from a sense of duty, to submit without delay to their most serious consideration. He believed that it was not generally known in the House on what the right of voting for county members rested in Scotland; and
537Lord Archibald Hamilton
s.s.s.s. said, that the object of the petitioners seemed to him to be nothing else than to get a monopoly of the English market. The consequence would be, that the price of corn would be raised, and laid generally on all the other classes. The idea which the petitioners had of protecting duties was a most erroneous one, and would, if acted upon, be destructive of all commerce. If they meant that the countervailing duties should be equal in amount to the difference between the price at which corn could be sold here and that at which it was sold in a foreign market, they went upon a most erroneous principle, and one which, he hoped, would never be introduced. Suppose corn sold here at 80s.s.s.s.Mr. Ricardo
s. said, it had not been his intention to offer any. observations on this subject, or to promote a partial de bate on its merits; but having been alluded to in the observations of the noble lord, he felt it necessary to say a few words in explanation of the object of his intended motion. His object was of a double nature. The first part of it would be exclusively applied to the protecting duty, as it was now fixed. It would be recollected that, in consequence, of an inquiry into this subject in 1815, the legislature had fixed 80s.Mr. Sumner
541 observed, that the act of parliament explicitly declared, that no person should have a seat in that House who did not possess certain qualifications, and who did not swear to those qualifications, if called onto do so, at the time of his election. This person, it seemed, was at present in America; and if his absence were to free him from the necessity of proving his qualification, a precedent would be established by which persons in the East Indies might be elected, who might continue absent for three years. He observed that in the return this person was designated as residing at Hyde-Park-corner, and if that address were correct, it could easily be ascertained whether he was duly qualified or not. He would not state his opinion on the question at present—he only wished to show that there were difficulties on all hands. The act clearly specified that the qualification was to be given in within fifteen days after notice, and, without violating the provisions of this act, the House could not agree to the
541Mr. Tierney
 said, that as it had been thought proper that the other motion should be adjourned, he saw no reason why this should not take the same course.Mr. Tierney
540 stated to the House the circumstances which had given rise to the petition which he had presented on Thursday from Mr. Green, the agent of Mr. Antrobus. Mr. Antrobus, who had been returned for the borough of Aldborough, was in America on public business at the time of his election, and had not yet returned. A peti-
540Mr. Fynes
 remarked, that the only difficulty which occurred to him was this: the term which was limited by the standing order of the House for the consideration of these matters expired that day. It might be a question, therefore, how far such a circumstance might affect the proposition of the chancellor of the exchequer.Mr. Fynes
l.s.539 thought that a question of greater importance to Scotland could hardly be brought before the House. The distinction which his noble friend had made, between lands held beneficially and those held by superiority, was well founded; but he thought the view which his hon. friend behind him had taken of the subject was not so important as he imagined, because his noble friend had no intention of bringing forward any motion for destroying existing rights. The object of his noble friend was, an extension of the elective franchise in Scotland; and, when the House had been informed of the actual number of voters at present, some measure, he trusted, would be proposed to them, founded on the extension of property and the diffusion of wealth. Some gentlemen might be in the habit of thinking that it was dangerous to change any part of the representative system of the country, as they imagined that the representation of England could not be altered for the better; but he would desire those persons, before they made up their minds on this subject, to consider what was the nature and the extent of representation
l.s.539Mr. Abercromby
 thought that in the present case, by adhering to the standing orders of the House, they would frustrate the ends of justice. He wished that, instead of the present motion, the hon. mover had proposed that the petition should stand over to the next session, especially as the whole of the petitions could not be gone through in the course of the present. He should vote for the motion, but should have preferred the postponing of the petition altogether.Mr. Abercromby
 observed, upon what had been just remarked by an hon. member, that it was in his power to say there was such a person as Mr. Antrobus, and that he had no doubt he usually lived at Hyde-Park-corner; and if he (Mr. Abercromby) were obliged to describe that individual's residence, he should say it was at that place; but the fact, as it was stated by every person, was this, that Mr. Antrobus was not now at Hyde-park-corner, but in America.Mr. Abercromby
536 of Wiltshire, could not agree with the last speaker that it was the wish of the petitioners that an entire prohibition should be made against foreign importation. They did not think that a free importation of foreign corn should be allowed. They conceived, and it seemed to him that they were justified in thinking, that they ought to be allowed those fair protecting duties which were given to other classes; but for doing this, they were accused of illiberality and ignorance of the general principles of commerce. As far as he knew, the object of the agriculturists was not to increase corn to a great height, but to keep it at a steady remunerating price. At present the price was not sufficient to pay taxation and poor-rates. It would be idle to say that the price of corn was the cause of distress among the poor. That distress was occasioned
536Mr. Benett,
 said, that he had himself seen a roll in which that distinction had been made.Mr. Hume
538 could not help suggesting to the noble lord, that it might greatly assist his ulterior object, if a distinction were made in the roll, between those superiorities which were mere paper supe-
538Mr. Hume
 supported the motion, and could not conceive why the inquiry should either be referred to a committee or postponed when they had all the documents before them.Mr. P. Moore
 found many grounds for supporting the objections which had been taken upon this occasion. It was almost alleged that there was no such person in existence as Mr. Antrobus [a laugh]; there might indeed be such an individual, but on the other hand it was at least requisite, if there were, that his description should be exactly stated.Mr. P. Moore
531 presented a petition from Mr. Alderson, the agent of a number of electors of the town of Drogheda, which disclosed the following facts:—That James Sweeney, William Moore, and other voters, had, on the 8th of May, caused a petition to be presented to the House, complaining of the return of Henry Metcalfe, esq., to serve in parliament for the borough of Drogheda, and that the House had appointed Tuesday, the 6th of June, to consider the said petition. On the 8th of May, two sureties were ordered to be provided, who were to enter into recognizances for the prosecution of the said petition, in conformity with the act of the 53rd of his late majesty. On the 12th of May, the present petitioner received from Ireland the names of the proposed recognizances, which he immediately notified to the examiner. On Saturday last, he attended the said examiner according to notice, when Mr. Rowland, the agent of Mr. Metcalfe, put in several affidavits, denying the validity of the security which had been tendered. Not knowing whether the complaint extended to only one or to both of the securities, petitioner prayed for time to inquire into the fact, which was granted until this day. He now stated, that he believed the securities proffered to be good and valid; and if further time were given, and copies of the affidavits were allowed, he had no doubt that he could give a full and sufficient answer to the allegations that had been advanced against the securities. Petitioner had applied to
531Mr. P. Moore
543 had one other objection to make, which, he conceived to be of considerable consequence, namely, that in case Mr. Antrobus should not come home till that time twelve months, it might happen that he would not be bound, by the
543Mr. Denman
 did not find that a similar proceeding had ever taken place on a former occasion, and therefore he submitted to the House whether it would not be proper to refer the matter to a committee, which should be instructed to examine into the practice of the House in the case of members being-elected in their absence from the country. If such a proceeding; as the present was not strictly examined, persons might be elected who did not possess the requisite qualifications, or who held previous appointments which disqualified them.Mr. Denman
 said, he had always considered a question of this sort one of the greatest constitutional questions ever entertained in that House. It resolved itself into this—whether because Mr. Ellis had chosen to be absent from England for two or three years together, the representation of England was not, therefore, in the mean time to be filled up. He should beg to propose that this debate fee adjourned till to-morrow.Mr. W. Williams
544 said, it was perfectly true, that this was the last day which according to the standing orders, was appropriated for these petititions, but at the same time the House must be quite aware, that it was competent for them, without substantially infringing the order of the day, to remedy an inconvenience which they
544The Speaker
533 said, that the case alluded to by the hon. member, referred only to further time for establishing the securities offered. The House were aware that the period allowed for entering into recognizances was 14 days; but in ail cases from Ireland, 14 days more were allowed
533The Speaker
 observed, that the scheme which had been suggested by the hon. member who had spoken last, was not practicable, because in the books in which the names of the voters were enrolled, there was nothing from which it could be determined whether the rent was reserved or not. The distinction which the hon. member wished to draw could only be obtained by the examination of every individual voter for a county in Scotland.Sir G. Clerk
532 observed, that the present petition was one of considerable importance to the electors in every part of Ireland. It must be quite manifest to the House, that the elections on the other side of the channel were, in various points of view, different from what they were here. It was much more easy to know, if securities were rejected, whether the grounds of rejection were good, when individuals were on the spot, than where they came from a distant part of the empire. The petitioner in the present instance stated, that he believed, or. examination, the sureties would be found satisfactory; and he wished to introduce other affidavits, contradicting the facts stated on the other side, for the purpose of correcting the impression they, seemed to have made on the examiner; or, if that were refused, he prayed that he might be allowed to bring forward other sureties, which appeared to
532Sir J. Newport
 said, that the act precisely provided that the qualification should be given in within fifteen days, and therefore the petition could not be postponed without violating the spirit and letter of the act.Sir J. Newport
534 presented a petition from certain owners and occupiers of land in the county of York. It was, he observed, one of the numerous petitions on the part of the agriculturists complaining of the distresses and depressions tinder which they laboured, and praying for relief. He was fully aware that the complaint of distress was not only well founded, but was particular deserving the attention of the House. At the same time he admitted that any interference by the legislature in the price of human food was a subject which should be touched with great delicacy. The petitioners attributed their distresses to the competition of the foreign markets against them, and they prayed that protection from such competition which was enjoyed by the commercial and manufacturing branches. How far the inquiry, a notice of motion for which had been given by an hon. member (Mr. Sumner), was intended to go on this important subject, he was not aware—whether it was to be limited to an inquiry into the capacity of the farmer to bear those burthens to which he washable, or to go more generally into the nature of those burthens which affected all other classes, and of which the farmer, like others, felt the weight. If the object of the hon. member was the more limited one which he had mentioned, he apprehended it would only be considered by the people at large as an attempt to enhance the value of lands, and to raise the price of their produce; but if the inquiry should not only go to the agricultural distress, but to the general distress which affected the whole body of the trading part of the country, then he thought that considerable good might be
534Lord Milton
 on a question so important as the present, felt it necessary to look at the objects and views of the petitioners. He had before stated, that he would not then declare whether he would or would not vote for the appointment of a committee. When that subject came before the House, the way in which he should give his vote would depend upon the nature of the objects which the movers might have in view, upon the members who were to constitute the committee into which it was proposed to enter, and upon the subjects into which the committee were to be empowered to investigate.Lord Milton,
600 presented a petition, signed by certain dealers and venders of newspapers. The petitioners complained that in consequence of the great increase of the Sunday newspapers, and their being exposed for sale on that day, much injury had been
600Mr. Courtenay
602 said, that the question before the House was one of the greatest importance, and one with which the House ought not to interfere upon grounds so slender as those advanced by the hon. gentleman who made the motion. The hon. gentleman principally relied on two grounds; first, the absence of Mr. Ellis; and, secondly, that the House could not anticipate a case which would come before a committee. If the last ground were tenable, the House had in fact no case before them at present. It was argued last night, and he believed it was the opinion of most members present, that if the qualification of the absent candidate were called for and not produced at the election, he could not be legally returned; but at the Boston election, the qualification of Mr. Ellis had been demanded, and the returning officer, after consulting with
602Sir R. Heron
 was sorry to interrupt the hon. member, but he thought he was pursuing a very extraordinary course in calling upon the House to discuss the merits of the case in the present stage. That should be the business of a committee.Mr. Wynn
viva voce was obliged to the hon. member for setting him right; but he conceived he was driven into the observations which he had made by the application of the hon. gentleman opposite. He thought it right to refer all to the committee. He was able to prove, by viva voceSir R. Heron
 said, that this was a petion which had been fixed for consideration on the 6th of June, and that he, in consequence of the absence of Mr. Ellis, wished to have the time enlarged to the 18th of July.Mr. Courtenay
 said, that Mr. Ellis had no authorised agent in this country.Mr. Bernal
604 begged the House to consider that the object of the present motion was only to remove the consideration of the petition from the 6th of June to the 18th of July, a day on which another petition of a similar nature was to be taken into consideration; and it might happen, that the person complained of in that peti-
604Mr. Bathurst
 said, he did not undertake to prove that Mr. Ellis was now in possession of the office, but that he did accept it.Sir R. Heron
sub judice. said, he apprehended that official intelligence from the Cape would be sufficient to warrant the committee in coining to a decision on the question, but at the present moment it was quite impossible to have any intelligence of that kind. Me did not think it possible to move for a new writ, now that the case was sub judice.Lord Castlereagh
 admitted, that considering the office Mr. Ellis held as a notoriously new one, he was inclined to suppose him ineligible; but he had stated that there were many possible ways in which he might have become eligible.Mr. Courtenay
609608 rose, not to oppose the motion, but to make a few remarks upon
609608Mr. Macdonald
d.d.s.d.s.617 seconded the motion, and said, that it was necessary that a great manufacturing country should depend upon its exports, to enable it to indulge in the luxuries which were obtained from foreign countries. It appeared to be the general feeling of the House, that a more liberal system of commercial policy should be pursued, and in that feeling he was happy to find that the president of the
d.d.s.d.s.617Mr. Wilson
618 thought that the hon. member who spoke last had taken rather too much for granted. If he believed that the tax would prevent the manufacturer from going freely into foreign markets, he should concur with that hon. member in his disapprobation of it. It should not be forgotten, however, that one of the first effects of this duty had been to induce Spain to take off part of her export duty. It was a curious circumstance, that during a period of the most extensive exportation of coarse woollen manufactures, not more than half the quantity of foreign wool had found its way into this country, which came into it at present. In the year 1790, not more than 3,000,000 lbs. of wool had been imported.
618Mr. Western
620l.l.l.619 said, that he continued in the same sentiments which he had expressed in the course of the last session, and agreed with the hon. gentleman, that whatever might be the ultimate effect of the measure, no sufficient experiment had yet been made to warrant the proposed alteration. If it was improper, generally speaking, to apply a tax to the raw material, it was a principle no less sound, that by the effect of taxation our natural produce should be supported. The noble lord had adverted in his speech to general principles, as regarded the present question, and if the ordinary rules of political economy could be dispensed with in one case they might be dispensed with in another. That noble lord had stated, that the present measure was sometimes called a measure of protection, and sometimes a measure of revenue; and he had declared, that whatever might be said in its defence upon the one ground, must necessarily operate against it upon the other. Now, he saw no such inconsistency. The article would be a fair article for the support of the revenue; if it could
620l.l.l.619The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he thought the woollen manufactures, above all others, demanded the peculiar protection of the House, and that a more impolitic tax than the present had never been proposed; for at the same time that it failed to assist the agriculturist, for whose benefit it was said to be laid on, it operated a direct and considerable injury to the manufacturer. Whatever tended to decrease productive labour must be injurious, and this measure was of that description; for it discouraged the woollen trade, which employed a larger proportion of people than any other. He wished that every labouring hand in the country should be productively employed; as many as possible in agriculture, and the remainder in commerce and manufactures.Mr. Curwen
 said, he must give the noble lord's motion his support, because he was of opinion that the tax was calculated to prevent exportation, and by no means adapted to relieve the distresses of the manufacturing classes.Mr. Philips
 opposed the motion. He did not see how this tax could have raised the price of wool, it being in operation only since October last.Mr. Barrett
627 said, as the trustees of the Museum had some time since purchased a very large library, which cost a considerable sum, they were determined, oh this occasion, to ask for such an aid as would not bear too hard on the public funds. With respect to placing the books in a more eligible situation, he was afraid it would require a large sum, because the
627Mr. Bankes
611 bore testimony to the excellent conduct of the noble mover, throughout the whole of the investigations and discussions which had taken place upon this question. That conduct was, indeed, the subject of praise in every circle where he heard the question alluded to. He therefore hoped the noble lord would follow his own views upon the mea-
611Mr. Littleton
603 said, that his reason for offering a word on this occasion was, that
603Mr. Tierney
 said, that many members did not know upon what grounds the hon. member moved.Mr. Tierney
610 thought that some means should be devised to make a distinction, in the operation of the measure before the House, between the case of the honest unfortunate and that of the fraudulent debtor; for it was obviously unjust that the same measure of punishment should be inflicted alike upon all debtors before they could avail themselves of the proposed law. Some scale of imprisonment then, or some criterion of distinction, ought to be established. The cases of fraud and of suffering disclosed before the committee upon this subject forcibly called for such an arrangement. If an accusation of fraud were made by any one creditor, by the practice of the Insolvent Debtors court
610Mr. Bright
605 said, the House ought to hear all before they made up their minds on the present case. He would suppose this motion was never made; and if he had the same impression on his mind as the hon. gentleman opposite, he should hesitate before he would make such a motion, as the hon. gentleman seemed to be certain that the utmost delay would only tend to show that Mr. Ellis was ineligible. For his part, he thought a greater difficulty existed in point of fact than in point of law. He thought the person who proposed this measure was not a friend to Mr. Ellis. If the committee were ballotted for, and in the act of sitting, he would defy the petitioner to make out his case; and why? His hon. friend said it was an office created since 1795; yes, but it must be proved that Mr. Ellis was in possession of it on the day upon which he was elected. If any member moved for a new writ for a person to serve in the room of Mr. Ellis, it might turn out that some other person was entitled to take the seat. It appeared to him that it should be proved that Mr. Ellis actually held the office on the day of his return for Boston. He thought that could not be ascertained, except by the appearance of Mr. Ellis, or by sending out to the Cape. He did not see the possibility of proving the contents of the petition. The gentleman alluded to had left the Cape a month previous to the election; and he therefore could not say that Mr. Ellis held the office at the time of his return for Boston. It might happen, if a new writ were issued, that
605Mr. Brougham
622621 felt that both his noble friend and himself, as representatives of the county in which this great manufacture was principally carried on, would be listened to with some suspicion
622621Mr. Stuart Wortley
601 said, that he would not object to any set of men approaching that House in a constitutional way. At the same time he could not help expressing his extreme disgust at the hypocritical cant of the petitioners. That the circulation of Sunday newspapers was injurious to public morals, was a doctrine to which lie could not subscribe. He thought that wherever the press laboured to oppose the advances of slavery and corruption, the circulation of newspapers on any day was a moral as well as a constitutional act; but if those dealers and venders thought otherwise, if they felt those conscientious scruples, they might easily retire from a pursuit, which they considered immoral. He could not but condemn the language of the petition; he could not sit silent and hear so gross a charge brought against the Sunday newspapers. Where, he asked, was to be found an immoral of indecent, or seditious Sunday newspaper? He did not know of one. He thought, on the contrary, that the newspapers conveyed instruction, political as well as moral, to the people of England. He thought that the peti-
601Mr. Lambton
l.626 said, that in the present state of the country, he should be unwilling to vote for the repeal of any tax, unless it pressed heavily upon the people, and was peculiarly injurious to their interests. The reason for this unwillingness was the alarm he felt from the present financial state of the country. Any measure tending to lessen the means of supporting the public credit should be viewed with some degree of alarm. He did not, however, feel disposed to continue the wool tax, as he considered it liable to great objections. The cloth manufacture
l.626Mr. J. Smith
 said, that although the country had every reason to expect that a system of economy should, as much as possible, be adopted, still he would not, on an occasion of this kind, be too rigid in pursuing that system. He should be sorry that so important an establishment as the British Museum, which was indeed a national one, should be cramped for want of proper funds. He suggested the propriety of an easier and more general access to the library, which ought also to be put in better order than it was at present. Considerable public advantage had been derived from the readiness with which admission to the other parts of the Museum was allowed, and many individuals had greatly benefitted by it. He could not help regretting that the same liberality was not acted on with respect to other public buildings. He knew not why those who visited Westminster-abbey, St. Paul's, &c., should be obliged to pay for their admission.Mr. Colborne
625624l.623 thought that the hon. gentleman who spoke last had mistaken the meaning of the chancellor of the exchequer as of the abolition of the Spanish export duty. It had merely been stated, that the tax being levied now in England, and not in Spain, went into the treasury of England, and not into the Spanish treasury. He believed it would scarcely be denied, that three-fourths of the foreign wool which was imported into this country was consumed by the population of this country; consequently, if the tax which had existed in Spain was now levied in England, that tax, as regarded the
625624l.623Mr. Huskisson
628 thought there never was an instance in which the trustees of any institution had more completely seconded the views of parliament than the trustees of the British Musuem had done. The improvements introduced by them, in the last 10 or 15 years, must strike every man who had visited the Museum before and since that time. He conceived it was discreditable to the country, that other public works were not equally open to inspection. Whosoever went to St. Paul's, at the present moment, must pay for admission, as if they visited an exhibition. The only point in which it differed from an exhibition was, that the public convenience was never once thought of by the persons who showed the place. They thought of nothing but the collection of a trifling tax from those who visited the
628Mr. W. Smith
 said, he thought the petition on the table must be disposed of before any member would be at liberty to move for a new writ. The next question was, how the petition could be withdrawn after recognizances had been entered into. By a clause in the 28th of Geo. 3rd, the House could not issue a writ unless the seat were vacated by death or some other cause, which must arise subsequently to the election; and by the 53rd of Geo. 3rd, it was lawful for the House to permit a petition to be withdrawn upon matter which might subsequently arise verified upon oath.The Speaker
 observed, that the doors of St. Paul's were almost constantly closed. In fact, it was neither ventilated by the air, nor visited by the rays of the sun.Sir R. Wilson
612 thanked the hon. gentleman for the compliment which he had thought proper to bestow upon his labours; but he begged it to be understood that whatever he had been enabled to do was owing to the assistance of the very intelligent committee with which he had had the honour to co-operate. He indeed went into that committee comparatively unacquainted with the subject, but he found himself enlightened in the progress of the inquiry, both as to principles and details, by the information and judgment of his able colleagues. He agreed entirely with the hon. member for Bristol, that Crown debtors ought not to be exempted from the operation of the proposed law. But when he mentioned his wish upon the subject in the committee, he found the attorney-general's objections were such that he was afraid of pressing the proposition in that House, lest he should hazard the fate of the bill. With regard to the hon. member's suggestion to authorise the appointment of a jury in certain cases, it was to be recollected that a jury could not be impanelled without expense, and that the petitioners to the Insolvent Debtors' court were generally mere paupers, who had not the means of defraying any expense. Again, it might be apprehended, that if a judge of this court were allowed to call in the aid of a jury, he might feel too much disposed to throw the responsibility, in certain cases, from his own shoulders. Besides, it was to be remembered, that the court alluded to was appointed not so much to, try matters of fact as to decide upon cases or equity. On these grounds he found the objections to the impanelling of a jury in this court so very strong, that he could not persuade himself to make the proposition, notwithstanding his reverence for that noble institution the trial by jury. The appointment of three judges he had been induced to propose from a variety of reasons which to his mind were quite satisfactory, and among others from the experience of the commissioners in bankrupt cases, which cases were so very analogous to those usually brought under the consideration of the Insolvent Debtors' court. When, indeed, the advantages likely to result from the proposed appointments were taken into consideration, be could not
612Lord Althorp
607606 proceeded to describe the principal provisions of the Insolvent Debtors' bill, the seond reading of which he was about to move. In consequence of what had passed with regard to this measure upon a former evening, he felt it necessary to preface his motion with a few observations. It was now universally admitted among candid and considerate men, that the imprisonment of a debtor should not be continued at the will of a creditor, in other words, that a creditor
607606Lord Althorp
616s.s.,615614613 on rising to submit the motion of which he had given notice, said he felt the difficulty as well as the importance of the duty he had undertaken, from the particular relation in which he stood to the petitioners, and from the great interest which a large body of his constituents had at stake. He might, however, say, with truth, that he was not swayed by the opinion of his constituents, for, whatever had been their sentiments, he should have entertained the same opinions that he now held. Those opinions were not new or speculative, but were founded on principles that appeared to be as immutable as truth itself. It had invariably been our policy to import the raw material of our manufactures at as cheap a price as possible; for he would not admit, that in particular instances, such as in the importation of cotton wool or raw silk, a contrary principle had been acted on: and if, as in the case of cotton a different policy had been pursued, it was only where the particular article of trade could bear an increase of price. It was during the last session, that that principle had, for the first time, with respect to the importation of wool, been departed from; and here he would observe, that there was considerable difficulty in dealing with the question, on account of the different appearances which it assumed; it was a sort of Proteus that changed its face as arguments were addressed to it. He did not mean to say that it had been so stated in that House; but he had seen many persons to whom it had been represented as a measure intended for very different and very opposite purposes; for to some it had been represented as a duty imposed merely for the purpose of assisting the revenue, and to others as a protection to the agriculturists. Now, it was impossible that it could be viewed in both these lights. As a measure of revenue it must necessarily be ineffectual, because at the time this duty was laid on, a greater revenue was derived from the importation of wool than had since been produced. Those who supported the tax might say, that it had not yet had time to be productive;
616s.s.,615614613Lord Milton,
683d.682 said, that representing as he did a great agricultural county, from which many petitions had been presented, complaining of distress, and differing, as he happened to do upon this occasion, from many persons whom he highly esteemed, he could not help expressing his regret that this question had been agitated, as he felt it an imperative duty to declare his disapproval of the motion. Every one who knew him must be aware that he was delighted with agriculture, in the practice of which he had spent nearly the whole of his life; and that he was peculiarly attached to those by whom its interest was
683d.682Mr. Coke
635 observed, that the proposed grant was to repay monies already advanced by the company, in consequence of a proposition adopted by that House upon the recommendation of a committee, as well as upon the report of our admiral on the station. This, he hoped, would be the last year in which any proposition of this nature would be submitted to the House, and it would be satisfactory to the hon. gentleman to learn that all those British colonies or [settlements on the coast of Africa were immediately to be
635The Chancellor of the Exchequer
Unda recumbit."Et minax (quod sic voluere) pontoConcidunt venti, fugiuntque nubes,"Defluit saxis agitatus humor;651650649648s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.s.d.s.s.647s.s.s.s.646d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.645s.s.maximum.s.minimum,s.s.644643642 expressed himself extremely sorry to be compelled to address the House on a subject of such importance, at a time when he was labouring under a degree of indisposition that he was apprehensive would prevent him from making his statement so clear as he wished to make it; and he felt that on that account he must request the idulgence of the House, should he not be so explicit as he could assure them it was his earnest desire to be. Among the various subjects to which the attention of parliament was from time to time directed, there never in his opinion was one which required to be treated with more reserve, and more caution, and he would add, with less frequency than the question which his hon. friend the member for Surrey had just brought under the consideration of the House. On all topics connected with the subsistence of the people, there necessarily prevailed so much apprehension, and he was by no means disposed to deny, so much prejudice, that at all times and in all countries, such topics had been considered as involving matters of peculiar delicacy. So much was he impressed with this opinion that he confessed he felt great regret that the present discussion had taken place. When, at the commencement of last year, an expectation appeared to be entertained that the attention of parliament would be called to the revision of the corn laws, he and his colleagues had felt it to be their duty to state unequivocally their decided conviction that it was not expedient to alter the existing law. In communicating that opinion he had endeavoured to be as explicit as possible, not merely because he thought it his duty to be so, but because he flattered himself that so unequivocal a declaration might lead to the result that
Unda recumbit."Et minax (quod sic voluere) pontoConcidunt venti, fugiuntque nubes,"Defluit saxis agitatus humor;651650649648s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.s.d.s.s.647s.s.s.s.646d.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.645s.s.maximum.s.minimum,s.s.644643642Mr. Robinson
s.654vice versa,pari passus,s.653s.s.s.s.s.s.,s.,s.s.s.s.s.652 thought it was impossible the House could reject his hon. friend's motion. He had the honour to represent a county which was as capable of sustaining the existing pressure as any county in the kingdom, but which was nevertheless exhibiting a declining capital, and other circumstances indicative of much distress. The petitioners to the House did certainly expect some legislative measure more protecting than the act of 1815. For himself, he absolutely disclaimed any intention by legislative enactments to bolster up the value of corn, for the purpose of securing a remunerating price to the farmer. The object which he had always had in view, was to render this country independent of a foreign supply. For the expediency of that policy he had always contended. In 1815, he had maintained that the bill then passed was not sufficient. And so it had proved. The British farmer had not sufficient security and encouragement, or he would, fertilize every acre in the kingdom. In all our former corn laws, the price at which importation had been allowed was always greater than the average price in
s.654vice versa,pari passus,s.653s.s.s.s.s.s.,s.,s.s.s.s.s.652Mr. Western
661660659s.,658657s.s.s.s.s.656655 expressed the satisfaction with which he had heard the speech of I the right hon. the president of the board I of trade. Notwithstanding the want of temper which had been charged upon him on this occasion, he could assure the I House that he would view this question with as much calmness and temper as any member, even the hon. mover, who was so distinguished for coolness and patience, could possibly do. So convinced was he of the impolicy of bringing forward any question which could agitate the public mind, that he felt great reluctance to enter on the subject. He had opposed the Corn bill in the first instance, and he had since had no reason to change the opinions he had then stated. At the same time he was convinced of the general impolicy of disturbing the system on which a great country moved and acted, and which it was highly important that the inhabitants of that great country should think solid and permanent. This consideration had deterred him from saying any thing upon the subject from the passing of the bill to the present time, though it had confessedly turned out, as was predicted to be totally inadequate to give those whose interests it was meant to serve that protection they required; the result had also
661660659s.,658657s.s.s.s.s.656655Mr. Baring
665664s.663s.662 agreed, that it was above all things desirable that the law should be made permanent on this subject. He wished for an extended inquiry with a view to some measure that should relieve the farmer from that state of feverish anxiety in which he was kept by a perpetual attention to average and importing prices. A refusal to inquire he did not think the best means of tranquillising the public mind. Some of the petitions prayed for a change in, the general policy of our system, not for immediate relief, under the pressure of difficulty and distress. They claimed only that sort of protection which bad been afforded, in an almost boundless measure, to every branch of our manufactures. They stated that it would be wise, just, and equitable, to extend the same principle to land; and upon their making out this proposition before a committee, they rested their title to the consideration of parliament. If their views and arguments were erroneous, it would be an easy matter to refute them. Unquestionably the same principles of encouragement which applied to manufactures did not apply to agriculture, because the former were susceptible of the highest degree of improvement, and the utmost degree of cheapness; but the latter, when extended, must, by being driven to inferior land, have its produce deteriorated in quality, and raised in price. Unfortunately no interests were more at variance than those of the owner and occupier of land. The landlord had but one object, that of obtaining the highest rent; but the tenant, whatever might be his interest under an existing lease, could derive no advantage from protecting prices when that lease expired. As a permanent system he must lose rather than gain by it, because whatever tended to raise the price of labour must diminish the profits of stock. The present system was evidently injurious to him; for, in the event of an excess or more than an average crop, he could not export to a foreign place, where there might happen to be a demand, till the price fell below the average, not of this country merely, but of that to which he exported. It operated, therefore, as a prohibition on the export
665664s.663s.662Mr. Frankand Lewis
s.s. rose, not for the purpose of entering into any further discussion, but to call the attention of the House to the question which now stood before them. The member for Surrey had proposed to refer all the petitions to the consideration of a select committee, with a view of entering into the whole subject, and effecting a complete alteration of the scale of protection settled in 1815. Agreeing as he did with his right hon. friend the president of the board of trade, and with his right hon. friend on his left, it was immaterial, in his view, whether the proposition of the member for Surrey were got rid of by a direct negative, or by the previous question. Either of these courses would equally effect his object of not going into a general view of the agricultural state of the country. At the same time he did not wish to preclude any other hon. member from adopting the suggestion of his right hon. friend, the president of the board of trade: he was ready to give his support to a motion for a committee, not to enter into so large a field of inquiry as would tend to alter the scale of protection adopted in 1815, but to inquire whether, by fraud or evasion in the mode of striking the averages, the provisions of the Corn bill had been defeated. The suggestion of the hon. and learned gentleman would open the whole question of the scale of protection, and if the averages were taken upon a survey of the whole surface of the united kingdom, an alteration of 6s.s.Lord Castlereagh
 thought that the Corn laws required to be reconsidered, agriculture having been much affected by the bullion question. He would, however, oppose any rise in the average price of corn, or any tax on capital in trade, which was equally depressed with agriculture, and in his opinion from the same cause.Mr. Alderman Heygate
 as a member from Ireland, wished to say a few words in favour of the agricultural interests of a country which appeared to be neglected. He thought that the distresses of the people merited the serious attention of the House.Mr. V. Fitzgerald,
 expressed his apprehension that the decision of the House that night would tend to show the people the perilous state they were in, and produce the greatest dissatisfaction. The House having come to this unexpected, and, in his mind, lamentable decision, he thought a fitter time than the present should be appointed for choosing the members of a committee upon which so much would depend. He therefore proposed that the further consideration of the subject should be adjourned till to-morrow. He trusted the decision of that night would convince those whose opinions agreed with his own of the necessity of watching this proceeding strictly; and, for his own part, he pledged himself to oppose it in every stage.Mr. Having
 said, he had intended himself to make the motion which the hon. gentleman had just made. He deplored and lamented from the bottom of his heart the decision of the House. So-little had he anticipated such a result, that, being asked by several persons whether he thought there was such a difference of opinion as would make it necessary for them to remain in the House till-the division, he had told them that nothing was so unlikely, from the temper which the House had evinced during the debate, as an effective support of the motion. If he had thought that it would have had so many supporters, there would have been a very different attendance of members, and a very different result.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that when the hon. gentleman showed him his list, he compared it with the list which his right hon. friend had prepared, with the view of adopting the measure for a limited inquiry, thinking that only such an inquiry would be granted, he had paid little attention to the list.Lord Castlereagh
 expressed himself satisfied with the explanation of the right hon. gentleman, but declared his wish to have the report of our admiral on the station laid before the House.Mr. Gordon
 expressed a hope that the prayer of this petition would not be acceded to until the establishments of the company from whom it proceeded should be inquired into by the House. These establishments were professedly instituted, in the first instance, with a view to the civilization of the inhabitants of Africa; but it was known that they were become mere commercial speculations, in which the interest of each of the speculators was much more consulted than the civilization of the negro. These institutions were, besides, not at all under the control of the British government; and under these circumstances, they formed an anomaly which called for investigation, before any of the public money was voted for their use.Mr. Gordon
676s.675674l.,673s.672s. said, that there was one sentiment delivered by an hon. gentleman in the early part of the debate, in which he cordially concurred, namely, that in legislative enactments, the interest of one body of men ought not to be consulted at the expense of others, but that each should receive corresponding consideration in proportion to its importance. He (Mr. Ricardo) would wish to act up to this maxim, and, because he consulted the interests of the whole community, he would oppose the corn-laws. In many of the observations which he intended to make he had been anticipated by his hon. friend the member for Taunton. The agriculturists had contended that they had a right to be protected in a remunerating price for their produce, but they forget that no remunerating price could be fixed. It was in vain to talk of fixing a remunerating price, which must necessarily change with circumstances. If by preventing importation the farmer was compelled, for the national supply, to expend his capital on poor or unprofitable soils, the remunerating price at which he could keep this land in cultivation must be very high, as compared with the price of grain in other countries, where the soil was better, and less labour was required. Open the ports, admit foreign grain, and you drive this land out of cultivation; a less remunerating price would then do for the more productive lands. You might thus have fifty remunerating prices according as your capital was employed on productive or unproductive lands. It became the legislature, however, not to look at the partial losses which would be endured by a few, who could not cultivate their land profitably, at a diminished remunerative price, but to the general interests of the nation; and, connected with this, he would look to the profits of capital. In his opinion a remunerating price might have been so fixed, that 50676s.675674l.,673s.672s.Mr. Ricardo
 asked the hon. mover whether he meant to press his motion to a division? He put this question because he understood that some compromise was proposed to the hon. gentleman; and if he did not mean to agree to that proposition he (Mr. E.) should feel it his duty to move the previous question, as it was now evidently the object of those who supported the motion before the House to produce an aggravation of the evils under which the country laboured, in consequence of the system of the corn laws.Mr. Ellice
 then moved the previous question.Mr. Ellice
 said, the reason why he moved the previous question was, that a member who had followed the hon. mover, had, as he thought, laid before the House a motion not consistent with the views of the hon. member for Surrey. He therefore proposed the previous question; but he was far from wishing that the prayers of a suffering people should not be attended to. He would therefore, with the permission of the House, withdraw the motion for the previous question.Mr. Ellice
 said, he held in his hand an amendment, which was to the effect, that a select committee be appointed for the purpose of ascertaining the mode best fitted for ascertaining the average price of corn. He should think it his duty to put this, unless the hon. member withdrew his motion for the previous question.Mr. Gipps
 said, that the decision of the House had taken him as much by surprise as it seemed to have taken others; for, however convinced he was of the propriety of the measure be proposed, he had not thought that any proposal he could make to the House would have been so favourably received. As to the nomination of the committee, he had before the division communicated, with the noble lord, and they had showed each other their committees, in which there was only a difference of three names.Mr. Sumner
 observed, that he could not see that any good result would be produced by any such compromise as the hon. gentleman had alluded to.Mr. Sumner
639s.s.s.638637s.636 in rising to introduce to the consideration of the House the agricultural distresses of the country, regretted that the subject had not been brought forward by some gentleman more intimately acquainted with its details, and more frequently in the habit of addressing the House. He regretted more particularly that his hon. friend the member for Essex, whose great knowledge upon all questions connected with the agriculture of the country was universally acknowledged, had been prevented by the state of his health from bringing forward this motion, for he was sure it would have been matter of infinite satisfaction to the House, if that gentleman had been able to take the lead on this occasion. It was most necessary, however, that the subject should be brought forward, and he felt persuaded that the agriculture of the country was so rapidly advancing to a state of decay, that unless some measures were taken to stop the total exhaustion of capital embarked in it, ruin of an irretrievable character must fall upon that class of the community who were connected with it. He could not but regret that whenever the agriculturists approached that House to complain of grievances, or petition for relief, the members of the House connected with the manufacturing and commercial interests seemed to think that the gauntlet was thrown down, and that it was necessary to meet any measure which might be proposed for the relief of the agriculturists with the most active opposition. The agricultural petitioners did not come before the House to attack the mercantile or manufacturing interests. He felt that the interests of these three classes were intimately and inseparably connected, and that one of them could not fall into a state of decay without entailing the inevitable ruin of the other. The agriculturists did not come forward to encroach upon the commercial or manufacturing interests, but to claim that protection which the legislature had al-
639s.s.s.638637s.636Mr. Holme Sumner,
s.;689688s.s.687686l.,l.685684 apologised to the House for rising at that late hour, but he could not, consistently with the duty which he owed his country—consistently with the respect due to the agricultural interest, and to the numerous body of persons whose petitions crowded from every quarter, and covered the table of the House, give a silent vote on the present motion, after hearing the very extraordinary motion of the previous question made by the hon. member for Coventry. He could conceive the reasons why some gentlemen, after gravely weighing the question, and yielding to the subtleties of the hon. member for Portarlington, or to the ingenuity of the hon. member for Taunton, should determine to meet it on its merits, and to decide manfully upon it; but of all the ways which he could possibly imagine of getting rid of the question, he should least think of that proposed by the hon. mem-
s.;689688s.s.687686l.,l.685684Mr. Brougham
 lamented the necessity of differing from his gallant friend on any subject, but more especially on a subject so delicate as the present. He did not say it was so in itself, but the hon. gentlemen made it delicate by the manner in which they treated it. He would ask if any thing had fallen from the hon. mover, or from any of those who had supported his motion, that could warrant the belief that they wished to introduce a new system of corn laws? for it had been held out to every man in England, Scotland, and Ireland, that the object of this committee was, to raise the price of bread. He himself had said over and over again, till he had nauseated the House with the repetition of the argument, that he was, in the first instance, for granting no farther assistance to the agriculturists than they had been formerly acknowledged by the legislature to be entitled to.Mr. Brougham
 said, that there was scarcely a member present who" was not aware, before he entered the House that evening, that he intended to move the previous question. So strongly was he opposed to the appointment of a committee for the purposes intended by the hon. mover, that if such committee should be appointed, and any measure be carried upon its recommendation, he should feel himself bound to make an attempt to repeal that measure, or at least to bring the subject again under the consideration of the House. After this explanation, the House would not be surprised at his objecting to the motion for the previous question being withdrawn.General Gascoyne
l.l.l.677 of Wiltshire, said the hon. member who had preceded him, had told the House that this country would arrive at a degree of prosperity almost beyond imagination if it could get rid of the National Debt, and the Corn laws. By putting the National Debt first, the hon. member had seemed to admit that it was necessary to get rid of the National Debt before the Corn law could be put an end to. He (Mr. Benett) should not detain the House by entering into any discussion of political economy, because he presumed every member was acquainted with the principles of Adam Smith, which continued the foundation of all political economy to the present day. If we had no National Debt we should certainly want no Corn laws, but while we had debt and taxes, we could not manufacture corn as cheaply as those who were not similarly burthened. They were told that this was not the time to agitate the question of the Corn laws. Every time was, in his opinion, fit to agitate the causes of the national distress, and to perform an important duty to the country, unbiassed by the clamour of any class of the people. He did not advocate, however, the present Corn law, which had thrown odium on the agriculturist, without affording him protection, and he should wish it to be repealed, parliament granting some more efficient protection. The mode of taking the averages was bad; the law left an opening for bribery (that
l.l.l.677Mr. Benett,
 maintained, that the object of the motion was, to raise the present protecting duties on corn. Agreeing with the hon. member for Coventry, he should very cordially second the motion for the previous question. Being the representative of a place of large manufactures, he felt it his duty to state, that however great the distress of the agriculturists, the distress of the manufacturers was much greater. He regretted that the hon. member had not also moved for a committee to take the situation of the manufacturers into consideration, for he would then have given him his entire support.Mr. Mansfield
690 was not sanguine in his
690Mr. Corbett
681d.s.d.s.d.s.s.680l.,s.,s.s.s.d.s.maximum.minimum,s.minimum.s.679s.678 said, that the great inconveniences of agitating the Corn laws had been so ably stated by his right hon. friend, the president of the board of trade, that he owed an apology for
681d.s.d.s.d.s.s.680l.,s.,s.s.s.d.s.maximum.minimum,s.minimum.s.679s.678Mr. Huskisson
692 seconded the motion of adjournment; and, feeling anxious for the tranquillity of the country, and knowing the effect which this decision of the House would produce, he implored them
692Sir R. Wilson
691 supported the motion in its broadest manner. He considered the question to be a double one, and thought that the House ought to unite in taking the question relative to the distress into consideration, although the question re-
691Sir T. Acland
641s.s.640 said, that he considered the question to be of the most vital import-
641s.s.640Mr. Gooch
s.;671s.s.670l.l.669Curwen668667No, no.666 concurred with the hon. gentleman who had just sat down. He had wished, when notice of this motion was given, that it should be introduced with such extensive views, that it should
s.;671s.s.670l.l.669Curwen668667No, no.666Lord Milton
 lamented the decision the House had come to, and entreated them to defer the nomination of the committee on account of the lateness of the hour.Lord Milton
 bore testimony to the severe suffering of many persons confined for contempt of the court of Chancery. He had known instances in which the parties had, after long imprisonment, endeavoured to purge themselves from contempt, but had no means of doing so, the parties being all dead, and the cause quite forgotten. The best mode of preventing this unjust suffering, would be that the noble lord at the head of the court, should bring all the cases under his review once or twice every year.Mr. Bennet
 said, that it was usual, when any bargain had been concluded between the Treasury and the monied interest, that he should take the earliest opportunity of stating the terms of it to the House. He therefore wished it to be suffered that the committee of ways and means should have precedence, that he might now state the terms of a bargain which he had concluded.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l.695 said, it was necessary for him to explain the reason why he had thus suddenly, without previous notice, risen to state the terms of the bargain which he had concluded on the part of the public. He had allowed three days for the operation of funding exchequer bills under the terms of his offer; and he thought he should have been enabled, before the conclusion of it, to give notice that he should state the terms of his bargain on Friday. But the whole business for which he had allowed three days had been transacted in half an hour; and as it was the invariable practice to take the earliest opportunity of stating the terms of such bargains, he had preferred doing so without notice, to the delay which a notice would have Occasioned. He did so with the more satisfaction, because he could recommend the bargain as one evidently advantageous to the public. It differed in one circumstance, indeed, from any similar bargain which the public had ever concluded, viz. in this—that the stock to be created was less than the actual sum of capital debt to be extinguished. He had a few days ago issued a notice, that a subscription would be opened for funding seven millions of exchequer bills. Oil the 1st of January the outstanding Exchequer bills had amounted to 35 or 36 millions, and four millions of Irish Treasury bills, making 39 millions of unfunded debt, which was ten millions less than the unfunded debt at the same period last year. Of those 39 millions, about 14; millions in Exchequer bills were in the hands of the Bank of England, and all the Irish Treasury bills were in the hands of the Bank of England and the Bank of
l.l.l.695The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l.l.l.l.696said, that the right hon. gentleman appeared to feel much satisfaction at the subscription having been concluded in a few hours instead of three days. The
l.l.l.l.l.l.696Mr. Grenfell
l.l.l.l. said, that with respect to the first point to which the hon. gentleman had spoken, there would have been much complaint it previous notice had not been given for some time. The right hon gentleman then spoke of a different mode of managing the business, which would ensure perfect quiet and prevent any crush, by omitting a long previous notice, and thereby preventing a fair competition; but that plan would not have answered. He hoped, however, nothing of the kind alluded to would again occur. It was certainly desirable to obviate any crush or personal inconvenience. With respect to the second point, and the most important, he conceived that the hon. gentleman had not understood him. He had distinctly stated that the unfunded debt on the 5th of January last was 39,000,000l.l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
698l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.697l. bad no intention of making any comments upon the bargain which had taken place that morning, but could not help observing that he did not understand the statement made by the right hon. gentleman, that the whole amount of the unfunded debt on the 5th of January, 1820, did not exceed 39,000,000698l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.697l.Mr. Maberly
 asserted, that no preference had been shown to any individuals, and argued, that the long notice which had been given of the terms of this loan was a proof that no partiality had been exercised in any quarter. Since Friday last, every man in London knew how this loan was to be effected; and the conducting of the preparatory steps to it had been intrusted to the Bank directors, whose upright and impartial conduct upon all occasions nobody would dispute. He then proceeded to state, that he had no doubt but that the hon. gentleman would perceive that the transaction of transferring the supplies for the service of the year 1819, to the service of' the year 1820 could give no assistance to the general finances of the year, inasmuch as it could give the government no power to create fresh exchequer-bills. A reduction of 10 or 11 millions of exchequer-bills, from 39 to 28 millions and a half, had certainly been made; and if the hon. gentleman looked again into the papers presented to the House, he would find the statement which he had made to be perfectly correct.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
700 said, that he supposed the chancellor of the exchequer had declined to give an answer to his question, because it had not been worded with all the nicety and exactness of a special pleader. He was no lawyer, but still he would endeavour to put his question for once with special pleading accuracy. He therefore
700Mr. Maberly
 vindicated the conduct of the Bank, and its agent, with regard to the transaction of this morning.Mr. Peirce
 repeated his question respecting the amount of exchequer bills remaining unsold in January last; stating his intention, if not distinctly answered, to bring forward a distinct motion upon the subject.Mr. Maberly
 said, that the exchequer bills voted in 1819, were issued to replace those of 1818; so that this issue formed no addition whatever to the unfunded debt.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 asked, why did not the right hon. gentleman give a plain answer to a plain question, as to the amount, of the exchequer bills unsold in January last, whether issued to replace those of IS 18 or not? The right hon. gentleman's mode of answering was indeed complete special pleading.Mr. Maberly
 declared, that the only answer which he could give to the hon. member's question, whether it was special pleading or not, was simply this, that it was not in his power distinctly to answer it, because be did not recollect the precise amount of the bills alluded to.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 asked when it was intended by the Bank to issue the new notes which had been so long looked for, or whether the sort of note to be manufactured was yet determined upon?Mr. Baring
 as one of the committee upon this subject stated, that the machinery for executing the notes alluded to, was constructed in the Bank, and that every practicable expedition was using to prepare the notes. He added that there was now no uncertainty whatever with respect to the sort of note to be issued.Mr. Courtenay,
 said, that some of the new notes would be struck off in a few days, but as a great quantity must obviously be manufactured before any were issued, it was impossible to say at what time their issue would commence.Mr. Peirce
 did not at all doubt the diligence of the Bank upon this subject, but he could not see the propriety of the delay contemplated before any of the new notes were issued, as it did not appear to his mind necessary to provide at once for the exchange of all the old notes.Mr. Baring
 perfectly agreed with his hon. friend as to the necessity of keeping up the consolidated fund, and not suffering it to go into arrears of seven millions and a half annually, to cover deficiencies of loans and exchequer bills. He thought there was something extremely unintelligible in the plans of the right hon. gentleman. All he understood of those plans in effect, was, that each quarter there were certain sums advanced by the bank, for which they were allowed to take possession of the growing produce of the revenue.Mr. Grenfell
703 said, there was no law by which a man could be compelled to work even after sentence, unless for certain crimes, or when that sentence was expressly awarded. Then, as to wearing gaol liveries, every one knew the main object of wearing such clothes was, to prevent disguise, and therefore to narrow the facilities for escape. But for this there was also no law. What would any gentleman committed on a criminal charge think of being obliged before trial to wear a felon's dress? And no one could say when it might be his case—in a case of duelling for example. But such might be the case if they were confined in certain gaols throughout the country, He
703Mr. Bennet
704 considered the statement of the noble lord to be an aggravation rather than an extenuation of the wrongs complained of by the petitioner; and he further considered the magistrates who had issued such an order as that under which he was rendered liable to their infliction, as principal parties included in the charge. So much had the question of imprisonment been discussed within the House, that he was astonished the magistrates had taken so much upon them. He might be excused if, on this subject, he expressed himself with some little warmth; but he asked his noble friend what justification he set up for the conduct pursued towards the petitioner? Why, forsooth, the petitioner had refused to wear the livery of the gaol, and the order under which the gaoler acted gave him a power of punishing the offender, and why?—"for setting a bad example." Well, and was the petitioner guilty of any offence? No. He was as yet untried, when he was forced to hard labour, and to the wearing of a gaol livery; he was in that situation in which the law pronounces every man to be innocent. But such were the circumstances under which not only the petitioner, but every other person committed to the gaol of Lancaster might be subject to such arbitrary indignities. When parties were found guilty of a crime of magnitude, it might be proper to oblige them to labour; but when they considered that for an imputed crime, any hon. member might be sent to gaol, ought they not to look to the manner in which magistrates exercised the almost boundless power which was vested in them Did any man in the present day mean to say, that he might not be committed to a gaol where such orders were enforced, and be committed for no offence whatsoever? Let them look at the discretion vested in the gaoler, so powerful an officer in the present day, and they would find how much was committed to him. Either before or after trial he could enforce hard labour and the gaol livery on any prisoner. After what he had said, he wished to guard himself against the possibility of that misrepresentation. He wished generally that the prisoners should
704Dr. Lushington
705 said, that general testimony respecting the character of an individual could not prevail over the evidence of particular facts. He hoped the petition would be printed, not solely on account of the treatment which the petitioner had suffered while in confinement, but because he had been committed by the magistrates, and detained in prison for two months, on a charge of high treason, after which notice had been given to him, that he was to be tried for a misdemeanor only. His prison dress had then been changed, and he had been put into a different yard. But the object to which he wished particularly to advert was, the wish
705Lord Folkestone
 was astonished to hear the noble lord make such an assertion as that magistrates or justices of the peace had not the power to commit for high treason, because, on former occasions, he had heard the noble lord, in discussing questions connected with the laws of the country, evince a degree of legal knowledge which he should have thought would have prevented him from falling into such a mistake. The learned gentleman said it was distinctly laid down in Bum's Justice that a magistrate had the power of committing for high treason.The Attorney General
 would not dispute on legal points with the learned gentleman, but he had thought it was explicitly declared in the book to which the learned gentleman had referred, that a magistrate or justice could not commit for high treason, and that felony was the highest crime within the commission of the peace.Lord Folkestone
706 rose, and observed, that he could not allow even the reading of the names to be concluded without expressing his decided opinion that a committee so formed could not leave a moment's doubt
706Mr. Baring
 said, that when he had voted against the appointment of a committee, he was aware that a certain degree of distress prevailed among the agriculturists, but he could not conscientiously consent to inquiry, when he heard its advocates talk of nothing but relieving the country at large by increasing the price of corn. He had, in fact, refused it entirely on this ground. When, too, the hon. member for Surrey, by gaining a majority, had become, as it were, in his own person the government of the country, and had taken upon himself to name his own committee for his own purposes, he took it for granted that he would appoint such gentlemen as were favourable to his views: on that very ground he had felt alarm, and on that ground he thought that alarm would be felt throughout the country. As to the distress of the agriculturists, though he was convinced that it existed, he was convinced also that it had been extremely exaggerated. He had gone through various parts of the country, and he had had intercourse with gentlemen largely concerned; and from all he could see and hear he was satisfied that this extreme agricultural distress was never heard of but within the walls of the House [Hear, hear!]. He used the words "extreme distress" purposely, for he remembered that the hon. member for Essex (Mr. Western) four or rive years ago, had made an admirable speech upon the subject, had given details from different parts of the country, had dwelt upon the number of farms that were unlet, upon the executions in the houses of broken agriculturists, and of the amount of rent remaining in arrear; but where were such statements to be found, on the present occasion? He must say, that he had never heard a case more partially stated; nothing but corn was talked of, though he should like to know whether the stock-farmer had not been prosperous: if the grower of grain had been unfortunate, what was the state of the breeder of cattle; and had he been an equal sufferer? He would only add, that, though he would not turn a deaf ear to the number of respectable petitioners who presented themselves, yet he thought it was matter of alarm to the nation that such a vote had been passed as that of last night.Mr. Calcraft
 objected to wandering from the simple point at issue, and expressed his approval of the nomination of Mr. C Dundas.Mr. Bankes
712711 said:—It would be unfair to the hon. mover, if I did not state that one of the members of the manufacturing counties was nominated in his committee, before I requested that my name might be erased. Feeling, as I do, that no method is fair, just, or efficacious, but that obtained by a protecting duty, I thought myself unfit to be a member of a committee, whose avowed object was, to adhere to the principle of prohibition. No wish to avoid the unpopularity which it might have given me, would have had the smallest influence in leading me to this resolution, because I am confident, that the petitions of the agricultural classes particularly demand our consideration and our regard, these constituting the great market for manu-
712711Mr. Maxwell
 in explanation, said, he wished to avoid giving any unnecessary alarm; but the great evil was, that the alarm might, as in this case, be so well founded, as to show that the thing which created it was prejudicial to the best interests of the country.Mr. Baring,
715 without renewing the discussion which had taken place upon the preceding evening, would simply explain to the House why he now took a course which he had not then adopted. He objected to the principle upon which the motion of the hon. member for Surrey had been brought forward. Those particular circumstances as to which, in his opinion, inquiry might have been beneficial, did not, he thought, afford ground for the appointment of a committee; and therefore, although he should not have objected to an amendment, he did not propose one. An hon. friend of his had proposed an amendment, and the House had only been prevented from coming to a decision upon it by a point of form: it appeared that the hon. member who moved the previous question could not withdraw it without the unanimous consent of the House. He thought it his duty, however, since the House had determined that inquiry should take place, to limit that inquiry within the narrowest possible bounds; at least, within those bounds which he believed could alone lead to any practical advantage. The right hon. member then moved, "That it be an instruction to the said committee, to confine their inquiry to the mode of ascertaining, returning, and calculating the average prices of corn in the twelve
715Mr. Robinson,
s.s.,l.s.l.716 did not last night wish to obtrude himself on the House. He was most anxious, however, that measures should be taken to suppress that dreadful system of gambling to which the corn trade at present was so peculiarly liable. Serious disadvantage resulted from the difficulty which existed in getting fair returns of the inferior sorts of corn. His right hon. friend, the president of the board of trade, thought that much of this inconvenience might be remedied by the interference of magistrates; but he (Mr. Wodehouse) was persuaded that magistrates would, in such a situation, be exposed to considerable difficulties. He knew of no act giving magistrates a controlling power in this respect, except the 31st of king George 3rd. This gave the magistrates an opportunity of checking the average, if the inspector were incorrect by the official corn returns; but that was insufficient. An hon. gentleman who sat near him felt somewhat incredulous as to the frauds committed in the corn trade; and he had himself, at one time, been nearly as incredulous as that hon. gentleman; for, though he certainly believed that frauds were practised, yet he had, as certainly, no conception of their importance, and of their extent. He was far from intending to raise a hue and cry against any trade; but he had received information from a quarter which he could not doubt, although he was unwilling to disclose it, of a fraud which had been committed, doubtless unintentionally, by one of the very first houses in Hamburgh. One of the principal dealers at Hamburgh had shipped a considerable quantity of wheat to this country, of a very superior quality. From the peculiar quality of this grain, the shipper was desirous to see it after it was warehoused; but, on inquiring at the warehouse, he was told that he could not see it; it was gone. He (Mr. Wodehouse) did not know that his credulity might not have been imposed upon; but it was important that the public mind should be set at rest. There was considerable difficulty in procuring, under the existing regulations, correct returns of the quantity of corn grown in large districts. To show the uncertainty of any average prices, founded upon the general returns, he would mention a
s.s.,l.s.l.716Mr. Wodehouse
717 admitted, that indeed it was high time to speak out when such doctrines as the House had just heard were gravely laid down. He then, for one, must fairly say, that the country was not at this moment in a situation to bear a higher price of corn. He admitted, with the supporters of this motion, that the agriculturists were entitled to every protection which could be consistently extended to them; but he was convinced, that of all classes they were suffering the least, and that their distress bore no pro-
717Mr. Stuart Worthy
718 of Wiltshire, denied that he had ever been an advocate for high prices, and said he looked on the appointment of the committee as one step to their permanent reduction. Could it be supposed, that if the whole land were thrown out of cultivation, and we depended on foreign supplies alone, that the price of corn would be low in this country? Surety not; and whatever therefore tended to the protection of our agriculture, and to preserve us from foreign dependence, must have a tendency to avert the evil of high and fluctuating prices. It had been shown, in Mr. Colquhoun's book, that, in those years when we were under the necessity of importing corn in the greatest quantities, we never received a supply from abroad more than sufficient for 39 days consumption in the year. A good deal had been said with regard to the high price of cattle during the last year; but the fact was, that about four years ago that pi ice was so low as very materially to check the propagation, and the present rise was but a reaction from the scarcity so produced. The great mischief of the corn laws, as now framed, was, that they kept alive a constant anxiety in the minds both of the farmers and merchants. He had not the honour of a seat in the House when the measure of 1815 was adopted, or he should have stated this objection, for at that time he clearly foresaw the evil to which he was adverting. He wished to see another system substituted, and a direct duty imposed on foreign corn, equivalent to the superior taxation which we had to support. It had been truly said by a great authority on subjects of political economy, that, were it not for our immense debt and taxation, no protection would be wanted; the land, as well as the manufactures, would then be able to maintain itself; but
718Mr. Benelt,
 was free to declare it to be his opinion, that if the House evinced any disposition to follow the course indicated by the gentleman who had moved and supported the motion, there would be ample ground for alarm, and he, for one, would be ready to pull the tocsin with all his might. If the House was determined to take such measures, the country could not take the alarm too generally nor too immediately. He trusted that he should not be misunderstood, and that no one would suppose that he could wish to favour the promotion of irritation, or hold that such measures ought to be opposed by tumult or commotion. Gentlemen who were members of that House at the time when the last Corn bill was passed, might remember that it was, at last, owing to such commotions that the bill was carried—[No, no!]. Certainty, whatever might be the opinion of gentlemen, the opposition of the House to that measure had rather been weakened than strengthened by the popular clamour. He was, however, of opinion, that if the House did propose to take the course to which he had alluded, the country could not too soon feel that alarm which should induce them to oppose it by constitutional measures. To use the language of one of the greatest and most eloquent men who ever sat in that House, "the alarm-bell at midnight, which disturbs our rest, may perhaps prevent us from being burnt in our beds."Mr. Baring
722721 apprehended, that the hon. gentleman who spoke last had assumedtoo much when he stated to the Housethat there was but one remedy for the distress under which the agriculturists laboured. He (Mr. Bankes) approached the subject with great hesitation and doubt, but not without hope that some benefit might result from inquiry—that some relief to the agricultural interest might be found practicable, without injury to any other. Unquestionably that interest was intimately blended with the commercial and manufacturing, and the last twenty years had furnished various examples that the difficulties of one were sure to extend themselves to all. As to what had been said with regard to this being a time for speaking out, he feared that more indiscretion than sound sense had been manifested
722721Mr. Bankes
730s.s.s.729728727726s.s.s.s.,s.;725724723 said, he was anxious to rise after his hon. friend. His hon. friend, by taking the narrow ground, had
730s.s.s.729728727726s.s.s.s.,s.;725724723Lord Castlereagh
735734s.d.s.d.s.s.,s.733s.732 said, as the hon. gentleman who bad just sat down had thought fit to
735734s.d.s.d.s.s.,s.733s.732Mr. Calcraft
 said, that of all the extraordinary instances of forgetfulness that he had ever witnessed was that displayed in the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman. He appealed to the House whether the hon. and learned gentleman had not expressed his regret last night that the forms of the House did not allow an amendment to be put, which was the same as the motion which he (.Mr. R.) had that night proposed. The amendment had been read by his hon. colleague, the member for Ripon, in the very terms in which the motion was now put, and it was stated distinctly by the hon. and learned gentleman, that he lamented that the motion of the hon. member for Coventry precluded that amendment from being put [No, no! from Mr. Brougham]. What then was it that the hon. and learned gentleman did regret? It was plain he wished the motion to be narrowed in some way; but if he thought fit to narrow it, were other members to be bound to do so precisely in the same manner as the hon. gentleman? With what fairness could the hon. and learned gentleman apply the word trick, for that, no doubt, was the word hinted at, to any such proposition? He hoped he should be incapable of any such miserable trick, as to attempt, by any indirect means, to get rid of what the House had decided upon.Mr. Robinson
 declared, that if he did not consider that the interests of the agriculturist and the interests of the manufacturer were inseparable, he would not consent to act as a member of the committee.Mr. C. Dundas
 said, that of the existence of this order he had been perfectly ignorant till the present moment. From its date it appeared to have been made in the year 1800; and he had no hesitation in saying that he disapproved of it. At the same time there could not be a stronger proof that it had not been much acted on, than the circumstance of this being the first time that it had been complained of, or that the House had heard of its existence.Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
701 observed that if he understood the remarks of the right hon. the chancellor of the exchequer, his object
701Mr. Ellice
 said, he did not rise to offer any opposition to the motion for laying the petition on the table, but to defend the character of the person who had the charge of the castle of Lancaster. The noble lord proceeded to remark on the humanity of that individual, and read a copy of an order issued by the magistrates of the county, by which a discretionary power was given to the gaoler of imposing solitary confinement, and other restrictions, on those prisoners who refused to work, or to comply with the other regulations of the prison.Lord Stanley
741 said, that the amendment which he had last night moved, was, at the beginning, in words the same as the motion made by the president of the board of trade that evening; in the latter part the motion was more limited than his amendment had been. The support of the hon. and learned gentleman had encouraged him to offer his amendment,
741Mr. Gipps
s.s.s.s.731 said, the noble lord had accused him of imprudence, because he brought forward this motion, when the times were in so ticklish a state, and the public mind was likely to be agitated by it. The noble lord appeared, however, to have forgotten the disturbed state of the agricultural mind, although he had considered the feelings by which all other parties were agitated. It was that agitation of mind which caused such a number of petitions to be laid on their table—petitions from that class of people who formed the great source of our wealth, and who were, therefore, the first in importance. He did not mean to speak invidiously of the other classes. He looked on agriculture, manufactures, and commerce, to be the first pillars of the state. But, considering agriculture as the
s.s.s.s.731Mr. Sumner
708 declared, that in the expression that he had secured a majority in
708Mr. Sumner
 adverting to the wish expressed by that hon. gentleman to be excused from the committee, observed, that he had not the honour of knowing him, but that he had named him because he understood he was a man of talents, and because he was a member for Bristol. On the same principle he had nominated Mr. Canning and the Lord Mayor. He repeated his explanation, that in using the word "majority," he had merely meant a majority of persons disposed to inquire into the subject.Mr. Sumner,
707 complained that he had not been quite fairly dealt with. The hon. member had desired time last night for the choice of the names to which he intimated that he should not object, under these circumstances an objection from him came rather ungraciously. Besides he had no right whatever to stigmatise the supporters of the inquiry, and to hold them up to the country as a source of alarm. He believed the members he had selected; for the committee were as fair and honourable men as could be chosen, and were as little calculated to excite public alarm as the hon. gentleman himself. He could only say, that it was impossible for him to know with any precision the sentiments of others; but as far, as he had been able to arrive at any degree of certainty upon the subject, he could assert that he had only done what it would have been absolutely foolish in him not to have done in the situation in which he stood; that is, he had procured for himself a fair majority [a laugh]. Was it to be supposed that he should propose a committee with a majority against himself?
707Mr. Sumner
742 stated, that as he intended to vote for the proposition of the right hon. gentleman, and as his learned friend had imputed to that right hon. gentleman an attempt to play off a trick on the House, he was anxious to exculpate himself from being party to any trick, or from voting for the proposition on any such grounds. He could not but consider the debate of tonight as a continuation of that of the night before, and that the proposition now made had only not been made on the preceding evening, because the debate had been prolonged to too late an hour. He indeed understood the question of adjournment to be moved entirely with a view of giving an opportunity for the introduction of this proposition, which the forms of the House had then excluded from discussion. He was ready to admit, that if this proposition had been deferred until after the committee had sat some time, it would be open to the objections which had been made to it by his learned friend; but having been brought forward as a part of the preceding debate, as the condition under which the committee had been acceded to, he saw nothing in the course now pursued that was not consistent with the usual and fair parliamentary practice. With respect to the interests of the agriculturists, he could only say, that he had never heard of that degree of distress which had been pleaded in their behalf—that he had not heard of rents unpaid, or executions, or other symptoms of distress in an aggravated degree, nor did he believe them to exist. His great motive,
742Mr. Tierney
 in explanation, said, he waved his objection to serve on the committee.Mr. Bright,
 observed, that he found his name among those whom it was proposed to appoint on the committee. If it were imperative on him to attend, he would certainly do so; but after the declaration of the hon. member for Surrey, that he had secured a majority, if be could by any possibility decline being on the committee he would; and he therefore put it to the courtesy of the hon. gentleman to excuse him. It appeared to him that the hon. gentleman had let out the whole mystery of appointing committees; and, as a young member, he had received a lesson that night which he should not readily forget.Mr. Bright
 explained, that he had last night copied what he understood to be the substance of the amendment of the hon. member for Ripon (Mr. Gipps), and had given it to the hon. member for Sussex, to whom he appealed, whether such had not been his understanding at the time.Mr. Brougham
714 saw some little inconsistency in the feeling of the hon. member, who, while he deprecated alarm as one of the worst effects likely to be produced by the appointment of the committee, proposed to be the first who should pull,
714Mr. Brougham
740739738"Numina magna—""Apparent dirae facies, inimicaque Trojae737736 observed, that he was unwilling to intrude himself on the patience and attention of the House, when he knew that the natural desire of gentlemen was, to conclude this discussion as soon as possible. After having stated his opinion perhaps at too great length on the preceding night, on the general merits of this question, it would not be necessary for him to enter minutely into the subject on this occasion. But they were now placed in a most peculiar situation, in consequence of the conduct adopted by his majesty's ministers, and he was bound to state the grounds on which his vote should be given. He felt almost precluded from entering into the merits of the question, even if he had more to answer than was advanced this night, for how did they find themselves placed with regard to those proceedings? A notice was solemnly given—a proper length of time was allowed to elapse—an opportunity was afforded by the hon. mover, for all gentlemen to consider the subject so that they might speak their sentiments deliberately and fully. He brought forward his proposition, and, after a debate—by no means a short one, and not confined to one branch of the question, but in the course of which every branch connected with it was presented to the House—at the mature hour of between three and four in the morning the House felt itself ripe for a division; and on what point? The question was this—whether or not they should refer the petitions to a select committee, who were to report their opinions to that House? On what were they now to be instructed to report? On something different from the contents of the petitions; on something not contemplated by the petitioners; on something not to be found in any one of those petitions. He had read the petitions down to the 26th day of May, which was the last he had printed before him. The petitions were numerous; they were various in their views, and different in their plans; but the one thing omitted in them all was this question of averages, which it appeared was the only
740739738"Numina magna—""Apparent dirae facies, inimicaque Trojae737736Mr. Brougham
 suggested, that it might be convenient if hon. gentlemen would confine themselves to the question really before the House. This was not the ordinary case, where form was of no importance, and substance every thing: the substantial question regarding the instruction to the committee would presently be introduced; for he now learnt with surprise, that the vote of last night was to go for nothing, and that a new discussion of the whole subject was to be invited: if the division and majority were indeed to be passed over he could not help it; he was ready to debate again, and to divide again only he sincerely hoped that the result would be the same. He trusted that gentlemen would so far consult the convenience of proceeding as to confine their remarks to the point of nomination; to the formation of the committee merely, for that was all that was now before the House. In his opinion, it was a great mistake to assert that eleven or even ten of the members selected, were in favour of extended relief: he had looked over the list, and could assert that there was a bare majority of those who were disposed only to inquire. The hon. members for Devonshire and for Waterford and himself were pledged only to the extent of inquiry in deference to the claims and great interests of the petitioners. They were by no means sure that any relief ought to be granted; and he mentioned this fact only to show how erroneous the impression was that the majority of the committee had pledged itself to raise the price of corn. He had been astonished at the merriment excited because the hon. member for Surrey wished to secure a majority. Suppose he were in a minority, the result would be, that on the first meeting of the committee, the chairman would be directed to report progress, and not to ask leave to sit again; or even if the numbers were equally balanced, nothing could be done, and the matter must be left in a state of neutrality and inaction. A majority was thus absolutely necessary. He pledged himself that nine gentlemen of the committee were absolutely opposed even to inquiry, and such being the fact, could any man assert that a fairer committee had been ever struck?Mr. Brougham
 explained, that he had consented last night that some limitation should be made to the motion. What he understood that limitation to be, he had stated to the hon. member for Sussex, by whom it had been put as the amendment now before the House.Mr. Brougham
 said, there was no member of that House to whom, individually, as a member of the committee, he should object. His objection was to the constitution of the committee altogether. It was of the highest importance for the public to be convinced that the committee was selected in the most impartial way; and the mode he proposed was by ballot [cries of No, no]. Gentlemen might say "No, no;" but let the question be put, and they would then have an opportunity or supporting their negative. The feelings and even the prejudices of the public must be consulted [A laugh]. Gentlemen might laugh; but that laugh proceeded in some degree from want of reading, for it was at variance with the opinion of every author who ever wrote upon political economy. The hon. member concluded by moving, as an amendment, that the committee be chosen by ballot.General Gascoyne
 begged to add his testimony to the exemplary character of the gaoler.Mr. Blackburne
694 observed, that there would be an anomaly in bringing the persons committed for a contempt of a superior court under the review of an inferior judge; and this would be the case, if the persons thus confined were put in the situation of insolvent debtors. Some of the prisoners, too, were committed, not for non-payment of money, but for re-
694Mr. Lockhart
719l.l.s.s.s. thought it but just to recollect that the question related not only to the price at which the farmer could grow his corn, but to what the poor man could afford to pay for it. The great objection to the corn-laws was, that they affected the poor in a cruel and disproportionate manner. It appeared that we might now, if there was no restriction, import corn at 50719l.l.s.s.s.Mr. Monck
 disclaimed any intention of casting the slightest reflection upon the Bank. He recollected a similar confusion some years ago, and from a suspicion of unfair practices, the transaction was referred to the examination of a committee, one of whom he happened to be, and the committee found that there was nothing of unfair preference. The confusion, indeed, arose from a trial of physical strength to get in, which, of course, respectable men would avoid; and therefore some measure should be taken, on a future occasion, to guard against such conduct.Mr. J. Smith
l.699l. did not understand that any answer had been given by the right hon. gentleman opposite to the question asked by the hon. member for Penrhyn, whether 7,000,000l.699l.Mr. John Smith
 felt a strong objection to the composition of the committee, as on looking over the list of names he found that not one member from the great manufacturing counties of Warwickshire, Staffordshire, or Lancashire, had been included. If any good were to be derived from the inquiry, which he greatly doubted, it must be accomplished by conveying to the public, that it had been conducted by those who were most competent to give the great subject a fair, full, and dispassionate investigation. Two points were to be considered; first, if relief were necessary, and next if that relief could be supported by the manufacturing interest. If the committee came to the conclusion that a high price for grain would relieve the manufacturers, he hoped it would not be done without at least the show of justice, by adding some members connected with the great counties he had mentioned.Mr. Spooner
 presented a petition from George Dewhurst, now a prisoner in the Castle of Lancaster, complaining that he had been confined for two months upon a charge of high treason, and during that time confined to hard labour, and compelled to wear the felon's dress. The charge of high treason, was afterwards abandoned, and he was subsequently tried and convicted of a misdemeanor. The petitioner further complained, that he had not been permitted to give bail upon the charge of misdemeanor, and alleged that he had been innocently led into attending a meeting on the 15th of November, 1819, which was the charge upon which he was convicted.Mr. Whitbread
 remarked, that it was evidently the intention of his majesty's ministers to fritter away every power and important function of the committee. He was sorry to find that an inquiry into the distresses under which agriculturists laboured should be so strenuously opposed. On the subject of averages great abuse existed. The county of Sussex, for instance, sent its corn to the London market, and therefore the averages were taken from the latter place, where the increased charges were added, and not from the place where the corn was grown. It was high time to speak out. He was decidedly of opinion that the agriculturist must be supported, or else he could not pay his taxes. The landholder wished not for monopoly, but for justice; he wished to be enabled to pay the fundholder his dividends. It was most unfair to charge him with being the cause of those public burthens, which, in fact, were imposed by the expenditure and taxation of the country. Unaccustomed as he was to address the House, he should say no more, but conclude by moving, as an amendment, "That it be an instruction to the committee to inquire whether the present mode of taking the averages ascertains the actual market-prices of grain throughout the United Kingdom, or whether any other method may be better adapted to accomplish that purpose."Mr. Walter Burrell
 confirmed the statement of Mr. Brougham.Mr. W. Burrell
 said, he could retort on the hon. and learned gentleman the charge he had made on others of neglecting the debate; for he contended, that the amendment proposed, but not put, last night, and the motion now before the House, were in substance the same. It was quite usual for the House to restrict committees by instructions.Mr. Huskisson
 said, that when he voted last night in favour of the committee, all he meant was, that he could not reconcile to his judgment or to his feelings to refuse to so large a proportion of the inhabitants of the country an inquiry into a subject which appeared to them to be of so much importance. He did not know how to say to the agriculturists, who stated themselves to be starving, "we will refuse to take your case into consideration." He had never intended by his vote to hold out an expectation that the committee would be able to grant a partial relief beyond what the agriculturists at present enjoyed. If the cultivators of the soil could make out a case, he did not wish to deny them the opportunity; but when the hon. member for Surrey mentioned, that he had taken care to appoint a committee which would give him a decided majority, he went a little farther than he (Mr. Smith) intended to proceed. There were two questions; first, whether the case should be taken into consideration—and upon that point the hon. gentleman was undoubtedly in the right to make out a list of members who would entertain the subject; but if he endeavoured on the second question, the relief that ought to be granted, to secure a majority for the purpose of changing the present system, and rendering it more favourable to the landed interest, then he contended, it was not such a committee as the House ought to appoint. The right hon. baronet had insisted that the members were as fair and impartial as any that could be selected. He did not mean to say that any gentleman would act unfairly according to his own views of fairness; but if 12, or 13, or even if 11 gentlemen out of 21 entered upon the inquiry with a full conviction that more relief ought to be granted to the farmers, the report would, of course, be accommodated to their views of justice and propriety.Mr. W. Smith
720 thought it was paltering with the agriculturists to grant a committee, if there was not an intention to support remedial measures in their favour. It would have been better to oppose the appointment of a committee than to resist all practical measures which it might recommend. He could not conceive any thing more futile than to agree to a motion, and then set one's face against the objects proposed. On the Catholic question, for instance, a subject which was to be shortly submitted to them, if any member were to say that he supported going into a committee, but at the same time stated his determination to oppose every object of that committee, what could be more contradictory? His own belief
720Mr. Wilmot
 said, he had reason to believed, from what he knew of the individual who had the charge of the castle of Lancaster, that there did not exist in the kingdom a man in the situation of gaoler who deserved more praise for the manner in which he treated the prisoners under his charge. This petitioner had been convicted of attending an unlawful meeting; and he was surprised to see it stated in the petition that the meeting had been quiet, and peaceable. It had on the contrary, been proved that many of the persons who attended it had arms with them, and that when the soldiers appeared they took off the pikes which they had before fixed on their staves.Mr. Scarlett
713 thought it extremely fortunate that no one had seconded the hon. general's amendment. He certainly regretted the decision which the House had come to on the preceding evening; but he trusted that the House would now take a course which should completely dissipate the alarm which, in certain quarters, that decision had excited. The country had little to fear from the committee, as proposed by the hon. member for Surrey: the members for Liverpool, London, and Bristol, afforded sufficient
713Sir M. W. Ridley
 did not think the hon. member at all justified by the fact in the remarks he had made: if he (sir J. N.) entertained the same opinion of the committee, he would unquestionably refuse to belong to it. He should enter upon the inquiry with a firm conviction that it was his duty to point out such measures as, while they relieved the agriculturists, would not only not injure but advantage, every other class; and if he thought that the other gentlemen named would not commence the subject with the same disposition, he would not act with them.Sir J. Newport
 presented a petition from several persons who were confined in the prison of the Fleet for contempt of the court of chancery. One of these persons was a woman 81 years old, who had been confined for contempt 31 years. Another person was 64 years old, and had been confined 19 years; another was 60, and had been confined eight years. There was another person who would have signed the petition, but he was in a dying condition, partly, it was supposed, on account of his confinement. He presented this petition the more willingly, in order to show the necessity of extending the provisions of the Insolvent Debtors act to persons confined under contempt.Lord Althorp
 in adverting to the arbitrary and degrading treatment to which the prisoners were subjected by this order, expressed a wish that his noble friend had been in that situation, which would have given him a control over the magistrates at the time this order was made, for in that ease he was sure that such a proceeding would never have taken place.Lord Milton,
 entertained a hope that, as the committee was appointed, its inquiries might be productive of advantage; but at the same time he took this occasion of stating, that he for one would resist any measure that might be introduced, the object of which was to add to the price to be paid by the labouring classes for their corn or bread. They ought to be cautious how they raised the provisions beyond the ability of the people to purchase. Had he been present on the preceding night, he should indeed have felt inclined to oppose the appointment of a committee on the subject. He was certainly not prepared to name any specific remedy for the distresses of the agriculturists; but he thought it clear that these were not times for tampering with the feelings of the community. They were not times for legislating on the price of an article necessary to the existence of all. He did not mean, however, to say, that he regretted the appointment of a committee, because he trusted some good might arise from it; and with this impression he should vote for the original motion.Earl Temple
745 rose to present a petition from the distressed mechanics of the town of Paisley, who prayed the House to afford them the means of emigration to one of the colonies. The petitioners preferred Canada. One observation suggested by the petitioners was well worthy of the attention of the House. They deprecated poor-rates as degrading to themselves, and an evil to their country. It was manifest that what was given to support the poor, who had no employment was taken from the capital of the country. If they were not employed, they consumed without re-producing, and were thus useless in the community. They increased, therefore, the proportion of population beyond the proportion of produce. He was sorry that his majesty's ministers had not applied to that House for means of giving effectual support to emigration. The distress of the petitioners, like that of many others, was not owing to variations of the market, but to the annihilation of their trade. When England had been the only country which afforded security for the employment of capital, and when the decrees of Milan and the orders in council had put an end to all neutral commerce, the natural consequence had been, that those who felt no security for capital, and found no scope for their industry and skill elsewhere, should come to this country, and employ here their capital and their skill; but when this state of things was entirely changed, those who had come to this country became unprovided for. They, therefore, set up or revived manufactures in their own country. When he heard particular cases of distress urged upon the attention of the House; when he heard the distresses of agriculturists discussed, as they had been last night, he thought some alleviation might be provided. But it was impossible to give
745Mr. Maxwell
750749certiorari748capiasconcedit solvere,747746 rose, in pursuance of the notice which he had given of a motion relative to the situation of the Welsh Judges, and the regulation of the court of judicature in Wales. The subject, in his opinion, deserved the most serious consideration of the House, as it was an attempt to remedy some of the defects, as he must term them, of the court of judicature in Wales. The remedy which he should propose for those defects was not founded on any newfangled theory, but on the opinions of men who could only desire change, because in their consciences they believed change to be necessary. Indeed, one of them, lord Colchester, whilst practising as a barrister on the Chester circuit, had pointed out
750749certiorari748capiasconcedit solvere,747746Mr. Frederick Campbell
 denied having made any personal observations.Mr. F. Campbell
755 disclaimed the tirade attributed to him by the hon. and learned gentleman. He indeed recollected to have seen such a tirade ascribed to him, in what purported to be a report of his speech, in one of the newspapers usually devoted to the service of administration, namely, that the hon. and learned gentleman was always ready to support the unconstitutional measures of his majesty's ministers. What could induce the reporter to ascribe these words to him, or the learned gentleman to conclude that he uttered them, he could not pretend to say. But he certainly had never said any thing of the kind. What he really had said on the occasion alluded to was this, that the judgeship which the learned gentleman occupied was usually granted as a reward or retainer for the support of ministerial measures, while that judgeship was generally a step towards other offices, the holders of which were always the supporters of the minister of the day—that is, that the chief justice ship of Chester was usually a step towards the offices of either attorney or solicitor general, which was an observation fully justified by experience. It was well known that the act which rendered the English judges independent of the Crown had given universal satisfaction; and looking to the principle and purpose of that act, he was at a loss to imagine any defence that could be framed for placing the Welsh judges in a dif-
755Lord John Russell
756 regretted the personalities that had been indulged in. When the former report was made, the present chief justice of Chester was not a member of that House. The committee of 1817 did much; but in the absence of so many members, they did not give any positive opinion as to the Welsh judges. With respect to the motion, he felt some difficulty. His own opinion always was, that the abolition of the present system of Welsh judicature could not all at once be effected, or effected with immediate advantage. At the same time, he
756Mr. Wynn
757 who had also been a member of that committee, said, that the opinion of Mr. Ponsonby, whose name would always be looked up to with respect, had at one time been strongly in favour of abolishing the Welsh system of judicature altogether; and it was but fair to state the manly and candid manner in which that lamented individual acted as chairman. He did distinctly understand Mr. Ponsonby's opinion to have been completely changed by the evidence laid before the committee, and that he thought, on examination into the subject, that the Welsh judicature: possessed many advantages, and should not be done away with altogether.—Among all the witnesses examined before; the committee, there was only one, a; Mr. Owen, who wished the system to be abolished. No question had been put to any of the witnesses, as to the propriety of these judges sitting in that House; nor was there any occasion for hearing evidence on that point before a committee, because it was a question on which the House was able to judge without any such inquiry. One ground of complaint had been, that in consequence of the ambulatory habits of the equity barristers who attended the circuits, the suitors in the courts of equity; in Wales could not sometimes get their causes heard for six months. This he I thought a less hardship than it had been represented; for he believed that many; of the suitors in the equity courts of England would be very well satisfied if they could obtain a hearing in six years. The hon. gentleman proceeded to state various arguments against; the abolition of the present system. One: reason for not including Wales in the circuits was, that many of the witnesses I could not speak a word of English. But
757Colonel Wood,
765764763762 said, that the hon. gentleman who had just spoken had done no more than justice to his majesty's ministers in supposing that they neither had nor could have any other object, upon this question, than that that should be done which was best calculated to render justice to so large a class of his majesty's subjects. For himself he had no difficulty in saying, that he had come into that House under this general impression upon the subject—that it had already undergone, the most elaborate examination—that every possible inquiry had been made, and every possible evidence obtained from the most able and intelligent persons; and therefore he had conceived that all topics which could now be proposed to be submitted to a com-
765764763762Lord Castlereagh
 defended the character of the Welsh judges from the imputations which he conceived had been unjustly thrown upon them. It was true that A or B might have received an opinion from one of those judges in his capacity of barrister, but was that judge to be taunted with having held a different opinion on a subsequent occasion on the bench? It was known that the great lord Mansfield had, when a barrister, held opinions which he had subsequently found it necessary to change. But surely that learned judge did not deserve to have this alteration of opinion held up as a reproach against him. He supported the amendment of his noble friend.Mr. Bathurst
767 said, that his early recollections impelled him to do justice to the Welsh bar and bench. Unless a great change had taken place in the judicature of that part of the country within the last twenty years, which he believed was not the case, both the bench and bar were entitled to the greatest respect. He recollected when he had the honour of practising at the Welsh bar that the bench was filled by men of the highest respectability and talent. Mr. Lloyd,
767The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 addressed the House in reply. After some allusions to the salaries of Welsh judges, and to the opinion given by lord Bulkeley before the last committee, he observed, that he had no personal enmity to any of those gentlemen; on the contrary, he had the highest respect for many of them. There was one for instance, Mr. Heywood, for whom he had the highest esteem and friendship. There was no man more respectable in his profession—there was no man whose character was more strikingly contrasted with that of another individual spoken of that evening. He had accepted his situation without any compromise of principle; he had never held a seat in that House. He had no objection to accede to the amendment of the noble lord.Mr. Campbell
 entertained great doubts as to the beneficial tendency or good policy of legislative interference in the agreements between master and workmen. Restrictions of the kind now proposed had existed for a long time, and it might be a delicate question, whether they ought immediately to be abolished; but he had no difficulty in saying that if we had to begin again, he would not countenance such a policy. He would not oppose the introduction of the bill, but neither would he pledge himself to its future support.Mr. Robinson
 hoped that time would be allowed to spread the knowledge of the measure throughout the country before the bill passed into a law, as he had received notice from Wales that there would be petitions against it from those connected with the iron-works in that quarter.Colonel Wood
 regretted that such a motion should have been made. He was aware of the good intentions of the hon. mover, but he thought the question of such importance, that a committee ought to be appointed upon it. He hoped the hon. mover would see the propriety of altering his motion to that effect.Mr. Baring
 rose, pursuant to notice, to bring under the consideration of the House the propriety of continuing the Bounties on the Exportation of British and Irish Linens, and with this view, he moved, that the 29 Geo. 2nd, c. 15, the 3 Geo. 3rd, c. 12, the 23 Geo. 3rd. c. 14, the 46 Geo. 3rd, c. 29, and the 51 Geo. 3rd, c. 14, be read. The said acts being accordingly entered as read, the hon. member moved,—"That this House will to-morrow resolve itself into a committee of the whole House, to consider of the said acts."Mr. Maberly
 was of opinion that it would be better if this question were brought forward by some member of the executive government, but, at all events, it was not necessary to introduce it now, because the acts providing for those bounties would not expire till next year. The intermediate period would allow the executive government to determine whether they would or would not continue them. He was anxious that the different parts of the United Kingdom should be placed as nearly as possible on the same level with respect to trade, but he was the more ready to put off the consideration of this question, because he thought the whole subject of the encouragement of trade was likely at an early period to come under the consideration of parliament. He would therefore take the liberty of moving the previous question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
772 expressed great surprise at the manner in which his motion had been treated. After he was given to un-
772Mr. Maberly
773 expressed regret at any misunderstanding to which he unintentionally had given rise. He certainly stated, in answer to a noble lord opposite (Milton), that it was but just and expedient that the bounty enjoyed by the Irish manufacturer should be extended to the Scotch and the English, but he did not pledge himself to any continuance of the bounty. Scotland and England had the same right to bounty for the exportation, of linen as Ireland; but as the act would expire in 1821, none of the three kingdoms could claim its continuance beyond that time. He had, in fact, declined giving any assurance to the hon. gentleman on the subject till the period when the bounties should expire, which would be in March 1821. When the hon. gentleman stated his determination to bring it forward immediately, he had replied, that the hon. gentleman was master of his own-conduct, and would of course exercise his own discretion; but he was not surprised that his right hon. friend should deem the motion premature. He was no great authority on the construction of acts of parliament, but it was well understood, that when a law was passed for continuing a former law, its operation reverted to the period when the former law ceased to exist. He certainly had, upon communication with the parties, admitted that, in fairness and justice, they were entitled to the same advantage as the manufacturers of Ireland. Although he thought the mo-
773Mr. Robinson
 expressed his regret at having misconceived the understanding which it now appeared had been come to between the hon. gentleman and his right hon. friend. With the permission of the House, he would withdraw, under these circumstances, his motion for the previous question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that nothing could be more distinct than the communication which had passed between Mr. Robinson and himself. He had shown to the right hon. gentleman the paper, which he intended to submit to the committee, nor had the slightest intention of apposing the bill which he was desirous of introducing, been signified. Pie thought himself therefore warranted in the observations which he had made, and he hoped he should not be excluded from resuming those observations as far as they related to the act of union.Mr. Maberly
774 thought it would be an extraordinary proceeding to send such an instruction as this to a committee of the whole House. It was the addition of a matter that had no connexion with the subject into which the committee was appointed to inquire. The first object that
774Mr. Robinson
 conceived that the terms of the instruction being in some degree imperative, brought the whole question now before the House.Mr. Bankes,
 declared himself quite willing to defer to the sense of the House, or the opinion of the Chair.Mr. Maberly
780779778777776775 rose, pursuant to the notice he had given, to move for leave to bring in a Bill to continue the Alien act, and to abolish naturalization, arising from the purchase of stock in Scotland. The bill intended to continue the act for the same period during which it had been lately in force namely, two years. This was the fifth time which this question had been brought under the consideration of parliament.
780779778777776775Lord Castlereagh
 begged leave to say, that Mr. Capper apprized general Gourgaud of the nature of his business before he arrested him.The Solicitor General
798 in reply, said, that he did not recollect the case with the government of the Netherlands to which the hon. member for Durham alluded. When Las Casas was sent out of this country, it was not with any view that he was to be taken into custody on his arrival in the Netherlands. As to the Holy Alliance, he denied that this country was a party to it in any diplomatic sense of the word. There was no understanding connected with it by which we were to send obnoxious foreigners out of the country. On the contrary, he thought that other countries had a right to complain of the indulgence shown to foreigners, considering the powers which this law placed in our hands. He never heard any government complain of the act, or adopt any measures hostile to the passages of Englishmen through their kingdom in consequence of it. Cer-
798Lord Castlereagh,
790789788 said, he should rot have risen upon the present occasion were ft not for some observations that had fallen from the gallant general, and the statement made by him with respect to the abuse of the law. Had it been abused, as the gallant general said, there would certainly be a strong ground for opposing the motion; but the charges brought forward had not the slightest foundation in truth. With respect to the case of general Gourgaud, it was, on a former occasion, brought before the House in the shape of a petition. All the statements now made by the gallant officer were then advanced, and they were every one contradicted. No answer was given to that contradiction. If the charges could have been made out, it was the duty of those who brought them forward to appoint a day for taking the allegations of the petition into consideration. That not being done, was sufficient evidence that those allegations could not be supported by proof. The gallant officer himself, took great pains to ascertain the truth. He wrote to a person at Harwich, and put various questions a3 to the treatment of general Gourgaud. These questions were all answered, but the answers were never brought under the consideration of the House. General Gourgaud was allowed to go before a magistrate at Harwich. Gentlemen were permitted to visit him while there; and if he had any ground for complaint, he had full opportunity of proving it.—It was not true that he paid the expenses of the officers who attended him: he paid his own expenses, but he insisted on doing so; and he had instituted no complaint of improper conduct on the part of the officers. Yet, when the case was before the House, the gallant general had not had the candour to state what he had done, or what had resulted from his inquiries. Had the charges in the petition been brought forward, they could have been most triumphantly refuted. He would undertake to say, that every statement in the petition was a falsehood. When Mr. Capper, with his assistants, entered the general's lodgings, and was proceeding to the performance of his duty with propriety, he perceived him endeavouring, to get hold of a case of pitols on his chimney-piece. Some force then became necessary. He insisted upon having his papers. They were given to him, and he put his seal on
790789788The Solicitor General
786 said, that in the year 1715 aliens were protected by a commercial treaty. It had been observed, that there had been no abuse of the powers conferred by this measure, and it
786Mr. C. B. Wall
753752 resumed. The hon. gentleman had certainly said that all were obscure and all were ignorant. The hon. gentleman, living in the part of the country in which he did, could not but know that there were persons who filled situations of as high honour and integrity, and as much professional knowledge as ever presided over any court of justice. One of them was a friend of the hon. gentleman, a most esteemed friend of the late Mr. Fox, and appointed by Mr. Fox to the situation. Nothing but the desire of sinking Welsh judges to the lowest abyss of infamy, could have induced the hon. gentleman to assert, not only that all who now existed, but that all who ever had existed, were corrupt. Did the hon. gentleman ever hear of sir William Grant? He thought not. Of lord Kenyon, of lord Redesdale, of sir Vicary Gibbs, of the present lord chief justice of the Common Pleas? He thought not. If the hon. gentleman had recollected that all these distinguished persons had, at one period of their lives, presided over the courts of Wales, he would scarcely have passed such a sweeping censure upon all Welsh judges. He did not know whether he was himself considered an obscure and ignorant person. Pie had once many friends on the opposite side of the House [Hear!]; and he hoped he still continued to retain their friendship, though he was aware that little dependence could be placed on the continuance of friendship where party considerations interfered. In looking round the House, he saw many gentlemen on both sides of the House who had done him the honour to employ him [Hear, hear!]. He would take that opportunity of alluding to some observations of a noble lord opposite, which he had seen in the public prints, and which evidently alluded to himself; they were in the same spirit as the tirade which had been just uttered by the hon. gentleman, and he begged to assure the noble lord
753752Mr. Warren
 chief justice of Chester, said, that in the violent tirade which the hon. gentleman had just delivered against Welsh judges, he had made no exception. Welsh judges in times past and time present, were equally denounced, and even Welsh judges in time to come were to be affected by the contagion of their example. With respect to those observations which applied to himself—Mr. Warren,
771 could not help feeling some doubt on the subject, after the opi-
771Mr. Littleton
770769 now rose to bring forward his motion, for leave to bring in a bill, to amend the laws in existence, for obliging the persons who employ labourers and workmen to pay their wages in money, and not in goods or other equivalents. The hon. member shortly explained the object of his intended bill; namely, to
770769Mr. Littleton
 was of opinion that his hon. friend had adopted the proper course, and made his motion at the right time. It was not to pass without discussion, but the discussion would regularly take place when the committee should be appointed.Mr. Tierney
 expressed his satisfaction that the attention of the eminent individuals who had just spoken had been called to the subject.Mr. Wrottesley
758 thought it his duty as the evidence which had been brought before the committee which was formerly appointed by the House to inquire into this subject had been so frequently alluded to this night to say, that as much of it was procured as every member of the committee thought necessary. And it was but justice to say, that every possible I diligence was used by the late right hon. gentleman who was the chairman, to enable them to come to a proper and final determination upon the question submitted to them. It had been determined to meet, for the purpose of making a full report, when, in the mean time, that deplorable event which all the country sincerely regretted took place. Consequently the committee never did meet again; but it was thought necessary that a report of some kind should be agreed upon; and,
758Mr. Wrottesley
761***760759 said, that the hon. colonel, who was not, he believed, a Welshman, although he represented a Welsh county, had given a representation of the opinions of his constituents and neighbours upon this question very different from that which lie (Mr. Allen) should give of those entertained in that part of the country with which he was himself connected. With respect to the petition which had been presented recently from Carmarthen,
761***760759Mr. Allen
 stated, that he had, in 1818, moved for the papers respecting an alien sent out of the country at the request of the government of the Netherlands.Mr. Lambton
797 did not intend to occupy much of the time of the House. He only rose for the purpose of remarking on some observations which had fallen from the hon. and learned solicitor-general. He did not remember whether that hon. and learned gentleman was in the House at the period of his (Mr. Lambton's) presenting a petition to which he had alluded. If he were he must have grossly misunderstood what he had said on the occasion; or if he had not, he must have received a most erroneous account of what had occurred. At the time when he presented the petition from general Gourgaud, in 1818, he had asked the noble lord to consent to a committee, in which he would pledge himself to bring proof of the facts stated. The noble lord refused that committee; and he (Mr. Lambton) did not attempt to bring the matter again forward, because he knew it would be of no avail without the committee, and, aware of the manner in which the House was constituted, he well knew that it was hopeless to expect that when the noble lord had refused his consent. As to the statements now made, they rested on the credit of the petition, or on that of the hon. and learned gentlemen—which of them the House might believe, he would not pretend to say, but he thought the one entitled to as much respect as the other. The hon. and learned gentleman had stated, that general Gourgaud had seized his pistols when the officers approached to arrest him;—that might be true—but was it not natural for a man of his rank, to attempt to defend himself when he had been so intruded upon by strangers? It was also true that the general was allowed to seal his paper—but it was likewise a fact, which had been ascertained on the authority of the consul at Hamburgh, that that seal had been broken, and the portfolio returned the general opened. As to the questions of which the hon. and learned gentleman had
797Mr. Lambton
 wished to take the earliest opportunity of rectifying a mistake into which he had unintentionally fallen. In speaking or Mr. Justice Lloyd, he had imputed to that gentleman certain matters which'he believed were chargeable not against him, but another individual.Mr. Barham
766 as a member of the committee to which this subject had been formerly referred, said, that the last time he asked his lamented friend Mr. Ponsonby, what he thought would be the result of the investigation, respecting the system of Welsh judicature, his answer was in the singular terms, "that he thought it would be the best way to get it into the great boat." He had heard his right hon. friend express the most decided opinion, that the system of the appointment of the Welsh judges was most corrupt. He used to say that it was generally a job. Certainly the hon. mover had never declared any thing so preposterous as that every Welsh judge who had been appointed was ignorant and corrupt. But he said that they were not appointed as the English judges were, on whose appointment no suspicion ever rested; as they were obviously selected for their character and learning. If he were asked if he had not heard of sir William Grant, and other eminent men who had been Welsh judges, he would reply, yes; but he would ask, in return, if his interrogator had never heard of a Welsh judge who was appointed after having relinquished his profession for ten years, and who was the clerk of the king's kitchen at the time; and whether he would lay his hand on his breast, and say that he did not believe the appointment of that individual grew out of some transactions in a borough in the county of Surrey? There had been several other Welsh Judges; among the rest two of the names of Lloyd and Popham, who were by no means fit for that situation. In proof of the evils arising from allowing any man to hold a judicial situation, who
766Mr. Barham,
 said, the present law was evaded, but he would rather that the fifteen restrictive acts should be repealed, and a perfect freedom of making agreements allowed between master and workman, than that new enactments should be made which would likewise be evaded. He strongly objected to the continuance of the combination laws, the repeal of which would go far to satisfy the bulk of the labouring poor.Mr. Hume
768 regretted extremely to have heard so many pointed allusions hurled at his hon. and learned friend, from the opposite side of the House, where his hon. and learned friend had long sat, although he was now transferred to his side. But he did not learn that he had belied any principle on one side, which he had professed on the other. He remembered an expression of the late Mr. Ponsonby, who had long been considered by the gentlemen opposite as a staunch patriot and an ornament to their ranks, an expression worthy of being recorded. It was, that a man who had been a patriot out of office, might be doubly a patriot in office; and he hoped that maxim would be repeated now with some advantage to the country, and be favourably received by the gentlemen opposite, and induce some of them to come over to his side, and display their patriotism with so much more advantage to their country. The imputation suggested against his hon. and learned friend, of delivering opinions as a judge different from those he had professed as a barrister, might with equal justice be applied to every judge on the bench. It was in the very nature of things, that a gentleman of the bar, feed to support one side of a cause, and bound to use his best exertions for his client, should urge arguments, and profess opinions which, as a judge, calmly viewing both sides of the case, he would not avow from the bench; and on
768Mr. R. Martin
754 declared, that he was not able to see upon what ground, while the English judges were excluded from seats in that House, the Welsh judges should be allowed to sit there. The object of the law which excluded the English judges obviously was, to preserve the bench from any taint of political or party bias, and with the same view those judges were rendered independent of the Crown. If, then, it was deemed proper to keep the judges from among those who were within the sphere of political action or influence, why should the Welsh judges be allowed to sit in that House? The conduct, indeed, of the learned gentleman himself, who had just sat down, furnished a strong argument, if any were wanted, to show that the judges should not be allowed to have seats in that House.—He had known his learned friend, if he would allow him now so to call him, for above twenty years, during which he could not say that he agreed with the learned gentleman in political opinion, as that learned gentleman went generally much farther than he could [Hear, hear!]. The learned gentleman, indeed, usually concurred with the hon. baronet, the member for Westminster, who was uniformly the subject of his most fervent panegyric. What, then, was the inference from the extraordinary change which had taken place
754Mr. Creevey
 in answer to the question put to him by the hon. member, hoped he should never have cause to be ashamed of any opinion he had ever delivered in that House, or elsewhere; nor did he fear that any opinion he had delivered or should deliver in that House or any where else would ever rise in judgment against him; nor should he desert those opinions in any situation in which he might be placed.Mr. Denman,
 agreed with the general principle of leaving trade free, although the practice was against that doctrine. He thought a motion for a committee would have been better; because, if the allegations were proved, that would support the necessity for the bill. If not, there would have been good grounds for repealing the acts altogether. At any rate, he could not agree to a denial of a consideration of the subject.Mr. W. Smith
 reminded the hon. gentleman that the question originally was, that certain acts be entered as read, and that the House do resolve itself into a committee on the following day, to consider of them. Upon this the chancellor of the exchequer had moved the previous question; but, after an explanation of something which had passed between the hon. mover and a right hon. gentleman permission had been asked of the House to withdraw it. The only question now was, that the House should resolve itself into a committee of the whole House to-morrow, to take the subject into consideration.The Speaker
 said, that, without reference to the arguments adduced on either side, it must be the wish of the House that its forms should be complied with. It was clear that, if the terms of the motion were imperative, it was no instruction at all; and that it must be brought forward in another shape in the committee, and make part of its report with a view to a future bill. But in this case the instruction was not imperative, and the real difficulty which he felt, arose from a doubt whether it was competent to make such an instruction referring to matters which, without it, the committee could not consider on any day but that on which the committee was appointed. It was, however, substantially inconsistent with their forms to take any step, or express any opinion, prior to the time of discussion.The Speaker
 thought what had passed in the House that night quite a sufficient reason for a change of system with regard to the Welsh judges. For to see a gentleman who wore the robe of a judge, standing in that House to plead and at liberty to decide in a cause in which he was personally interested, appeared to him a very great anomaly. He really thought that ministers would do well to give up the source of patronage which they possessed, from having Welsh judges sitting in that House. He had no doubt, indeed, that such a surrender would serve very considerably to advance the character of his majesty's ministers, and he was as anxious as any man that that character should stand high in public estimation. At an early period of the reign of Geo. 2nd, it was enacted that the Scotch baron should not be allowed to sit in that House, and the English judges were also excluded. The judges then both of England and Scotland being prohibited from sitting in that House, he could not see upon what ground the Welsh judges should be allowed to sit there. Another objection to the present system of the Welsh judges was, that they were allowed to practise as barristers in this part of the kingdom; and thus a suitor on the Chester circuit had an opportunity of ascertaining, perhaps of prepossessing the mind of the judge who was to try he cause. On these grounds he should support the motion.Mr. Chetwynd
 had heard with the utmost pain the observations upon his learned friend the present chief justice of Chester. It was impossible for his learned friend to have accepted the situation from any base or unworthy motive; he took it probably from an honourable love of influence and power, that he might enjoy more extensive means of doing good, and contributing to the welfare of his country.Mr. W. Parnell
 would not object to the introduction of the bill, though he thought the hon. gentleman would effect a more beneficial object by moving for a repeal of all former enactments that interfered between master and workmen. He was convinced that the best remedy for the evils complained of would be, to abolish all restrictions. He reserved to himself the right of opposing this bill in its future stages.Sir J. Mackintosh
796795794793i792791 said, that at so late an hour of the night, and so much exhausted as he felt himself, he should have been unwilling to say any thing on a subject on which at former times, and at great length, he had felt it necessary to trespass on the indulgence of the House, had not his opinion been specially called for by his hon. and learned friend in a manner for which he was certainly very grateful. As that had been done, he should now on the first stage trouble the House with a few words on a measure, to every stage of which he should offer his most decided opposition, reserving for a future occasion a more detailed statement of his reasons. In making these observations it was not his intention to enter into a controversy as, to particular facts, arising from the. cases which had been mentioned by his gallant friend; in the first place, because he was not acquainted-with the circumstances of those cases, and must, therefore, leave
796795794793i792791Sir James Mackintosh
 said, that the anecdote about the Welsh judge acting as counsel, and delivering an opinion in the one capacity which he reversed in the other, was certainly possible, and as such it was a good illustration of the inconvenience of uniting the two characters.Mr. Scarlett
d.s.l.785784783782781 was aware that it was rather unusual to debate a question on the motion for leave to bringin a bill; but the present question was of such a nature as to justify him in coming forward thus early to resist its introduction, and he had the satisfaction to know that many members approved of the course
d.s.l.785784783782781Sir Robert Wilson
 remarked, that the subject matter of the instruction was. altogether extraneous to the question which the committee would have to consider.Sir John Newport
 apprehended that the House would be travelling rather too fast in immediately assenting to this new proposition without any discussion. It seemed to him that it would be early enough to bring forward this question on the following day.Lord Milton
 proposed a clause which had been suggested last year, but not adopted, to deprive persons of full age I who should marry minors, of the power of annulling such marriages by suits instituted by themselves, at any time or under any circumstances On the ground of minority. The licences were in most cases' obtained by the wilful perjury of the adults, and it was therefore highly improper that they should be at liberty to | derive a double advantage from such perjury, first, that of accomplishing the marriage, and next, that of avoiding it.Mr. Bennet
 observed, that the clause required some alteration, and it was in consequence ultimately postponed, in order to be introduced in a subsequent stage of the bill.—The House then resumed, and the report was ordered to be received on Thursday.Dr. Lushington
 on presenting a petition from the woollen cloth manufacturers of Keswick, took occasion to remark upon the state of their trade, observing, that the petitioners deprecated the intention, which they understood existed, of continuing what were called the protecting duties upon Irish linen.Mr. Curwen,
 was averse to protecting duties, and would oppose their imposition, if they were now about to be laid on; but he thought that the manufactures of Ireland ought to meet with encouragement as well as those of England. He wished his right hon. friend would state what course it was his intention to adopt, for that would serve to remove from the minds of the manufacturers in Ireland that suspense, which was highly unfavourable to them.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
803 observed, that the subject was at present undergoing a special inquiry; but he had no hesitation to state, that it was not in his contemplation to propose the immediate repeal of the duties alluded to. Those duties had existed since the Union
803The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the proposition of a gradual repeal of these duties was deemed necessary, to afford time to the parties immediately interested, to prepare for their ultimate and complete repeal, which it was in the contemplation of his majesty's ministers to propose.Lord Castlereagh
804 expressed his concurrence in sentiment with the hon. member for Portarlington, as to the principle of protecting duties; and if the duties under consideration were now for the first time proposed, he apprehended that few would be found to support the proposition. But from local knowledge, as well as from general information, he was enabled to say, that the immediate repeal of those duties would be productive of the worst effects in Ireland. It was therefore wise on the part of ministers to determine upon some further continuance of that degree of protection to the trade of Ireland which these duties afforded, as that trade was known to stand so much in need of encouragement. It was very desirable that those engaged in this trade in Ireland, should not be kept much longer in suspense as to the intention of the chancellor of the exchequer; for as the duties alluded to were not long to continue ac-
804Mr. Hutchinson
820 maintained, that in the original act of parliament imposing the 4½ per cent duties it was expressly stated that they were for assisting in the protection of the Leeward islands. Subsequently, in the reign of Charles 2nd, they were taken as a part of the hereditary
820Mr. Bennet
821 did think, and he was sure the feelings of the House and the country would go with him, that the mode in which the two honourable members had expressed themselves, in relation to the fees of the tellerships of the exchequer, was neither fair, candid, liberal, nor just. It would have been but justice to say, that this fund had lapsed into the hands of the noble marquis, who had exhibited such unexampled disinterestedness and public spirit in sacrificing his
821Lord Castlereagh
 repeated his assertion, that the noble marquis in question had made large sacrifices to the public interest long before the observations in parliament of the hon. gentleman opposite.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
819 observed, that the hon. gentleman had excited his astonishment and sorrow, and done himself very little credit by the manner in which he had treated one of the most liberal and public-spirited acts ever done in this or in any country—[Hear, hear!]. The lofty and generous conduct of the marquis, of which the hon. gentleman had spoken so lightly, had drawn forth the universal respect and gratitude of this country, and he believed of Europe. The hon. gentleman had taken on himself the credit of having compelled the noble marquis by the observations he had made in the House, to give up those official emolu-
819The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was anxious to draw the attention of the House to the subject of the driver corps, the skeleton of which was still kept up in Wales, but for what purpose of national utility he bad not been able to discover. He apprehended, likewise, that if the military college was still necessary, it ought to be placed on the most economical footing. He was far indeed from admitting that necessity, and was persuaded that one-half of what was laid out at Sandhurst would cover the entire expense of Marlow. It appeared to him that a most enormous sum had been expended in buildings, from which the public service could derive no adequate compensation.Mr. Fyshe Palmer
831 regretted that those individuals who took an active part in the discussion of a corn bill, or a commercial or agricultural measure, did not seem inclined to devote their talents to the important subject now under consideration.
831Colonel Davies
 said, he had conversed with many persons who had relations in the hospital, all of whom concurred in speaking of it in terms of the highest praise. There were some who, after having been three or four years in other places under the army surgeons, and discharged at length as incurables, were restored to sight by sir William Adams.Mr. Price
837836 said, that the respectable individual at the head of the establishment now under consideration, had been hardly dealt with in many instances, and regretted that his hon. friend, the member for Shrewsbury, should have spoken as he had, under a misconception
837836Mr. Hutchinson
l. read an extract from the report of the three medical gentlemen appointed by the board, in which they stated, that the appearances were still more unfavourable than before. He did not mean to deny that sir W. Adams had performed great cures, but that they were not so numerous as to justify the continuance of the establishment.l.Mr. Bennet
835l.;834l. said, the noble lord had stated that the Ophthalmic establishment cost the country about 2,000835l.;834l.Mr. Bennet
 said, that he could never be brought to believe that there was any thing blameable in the transaction alluded to. The Crown had called those troops into existence, it was true, in October last; but no sooner had parliament assembled, than this fact was made known to it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
802 said, that although it was not without becoming hesitation that he differed from the right hon. and learned judge upon such a subject yet as he thought that the purport of the clause had been misunderstood, he did not despair of satisfying him of its propriety. In the first place, it had not been before rejected, as the right hon. gentleman supposed, for he (Mr. T.) was the individual who bad then brought it forward, and had merely withdrawn it at the instance of the hon. and learned member who introduced the bill, lest, though he knew not why, it should not be acceptable in another place. Next, he thought, that so far from being at variance with the principle of the Marriage act, it was precisely correspondent to that principle, which was a principle of protection to minors against indiscreet connexions. It was amply sufficient for this object to enable the minor to avoid the marriage, without leaving the adult at
802Mr. Tennyson
 observed, that it seemed to be admitted on all sides, that these protecting duties ought to be repealed. They had existed for 20 years, which surely was a period quite long enough to give the Irish manufacturers an opportunity of preparing for their repeal, if any such opportunity were necessary; and he really could see no reason for their further continuance.Mr. Ricardo
833832 was anxious to offer a few observations in defence of the establishment at Sandhurst. It was described as unfitted and unsuited for the purpose contemplated; observations were made on the extent of the fund appropriated to its support; and reflexions were also cast on the mode of education pursued in that
833832Colonel Trench
 maintained, that the answer which the noble lord had just given to a question proposed to him by a nobles lord was by no means satisfactory. Those 11,000 veterans were certainly levied in a manner contrary both to the Bill of Rights and to the articles of the Mutiny act.Lord Nugent
839 was ready to admit, that
839Lord Nugent
l.826 stated, that it was not his intention on the present occasion to go into all the objections which he entertained to the resolution now moved. One reason for his declining to do so was the evident indisposition of the noble lord. His objections, too, did not so much apply to the details embraced in the estimates now laid upon their table, as to the principle of maintaining so enormous a military establishment in time of peace. It was an establishment which he saw nothing to justify in the situation of Europe, or in our own domestic circumstances. The noble lord had not attempted to bring forward any argument to prove its necessity, but had rested its defence on the ground of public notoriety. Such a ground might appear satisfactory to the noble lord, but, in his opinion, a large military force was not a suitable remedy for popular discontent, arising from actual misery, and increased by the disastrous state of our finances. If complaints of taxation were to be met by enlarged establishments, it was obvious that we should move on in a circle till some final rupture took place between the Crown and the people, the issue of which must be either to confirm disaffection, or to establish a military government and a military police. Having made
l.826Lord Nugent
l. stated, that there was a militia set on foot in the Ionian islands, the drilling and superintending of whom had devolved on the staff. Whether they were so occupied at present he could not say. The hon. gentleman, in answer to the observation made by Mr. Hume, observed, that that there was a saving of upwards of 11,000l.Mr. Goulburn
 moved an amendment to the effect, that parties so circumstanced should have six months after the passing of the bill within which suits might be commenced though both parties had attained majority.Mr. Wrottesley
 said, that as far as the knowledge of his constituents went, they believed the timber imported from the British American Colonies to be their growth. It was also to be recollected, that the return sent from this country in payment of that timber was in salt, to the amount of 40,000 tons.General Gascoyne
 presented a petition from some merchants, ship-owners, and otheiss, in Liverpool. The prayer of the petition might appear somewhat inconsistent, as it favoured a relaxation of the Navigation laws, and yet opposed any alteration of the acts respecting foreign timber. They expressed themselves much interested in not narrowing their trade with our North-American colonies. He should say no more at present upon the subject, reserving himself till a city member, who had given notice of a motion connected with this question, should bring the subject fully under discussion.General Gascoyne
 said, his hon. friend had taken an erroneous view of the Ophthalmic establishment. He had got hold of a pamphlet, entitled "A Report submitted to the commander-in-chief on Ophthalmia;" and he seemed to conclude that it contained the judgment of a board of persons, to whom it was referred to decide on the disputes relative to this establishment. This was entirely a mistake: it was a private publication, printed by themselves, and was merely the reply of one party to the statement of the other. The hon. gentleman stated the number of pensions granted for diseases in the eye before the appointment of the Ophthalmic institution, and the number of persons pronounced incurable by army-surgeons cured at the Ophthalmic institution, in order to prove the utility of that institution.Mr. Barham
 referred to the reports of the finance committee to show that from 1715 to the year 1786 the 4½ per cent duties had been included in the revenue. It was not until the last-mentioned year, when the consolidated fund was established, that they were no longer comprehended in the general revenue, so that the right hon. gentleman's statement respecting them was perfectly unfounded.Mr. Hume
l.,l.,l.830l.,l.l.s.l.l.,829l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.,828l.l.d.s.l.s.l.l.l,l.l.l.827l.l. considered that the House and the country were much indebted to an hon. and gallant officer (colonel Davies) who had recently called their attention to the subject of our military expenditure. It was undoubtedly a little singular to find, in the first place, so large an increase in the number of life-guards. That number, in the year 1792, was 695, and now amounted to 1,305. He was sure he was not exceeding the truth, when he estimated the cost of every individual in that corps, including horses and accoutrements, at 142l.,l.,l.830l.,l.l.s.l.l.,829l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.,828l.l.d.s.l.s.l.l.l,l.l.l.827l.l.Mr. Hume
810l.;l.,l.,l.,l.;l.,l.l.809l.l.l.,l.l.l.,808l.;l.,l.,l.,l.l.l.l.,l.:l.,l.:l.,l.l.l.,l.,l.l.,l.,l.l.,l.;l.l.;l.;807 thought that, in calling the attention of the committee to the amount of these estimates, he should save the time of the committee, if, instead of entering into minute particulars, he looked at the total amount under each head. The object of the committee should be, to see what was the total expense of the ordnance service for this year, compared with that for the last; and whether the circumstances of the country were such as to warrant the present amount. With this view he should take the simple method of showing the difference between the estimates of the last and the present years, rather than follow the
810l.;l.,l.,l.,l.;l.,l.l.809l.l.l.,l.l.l.,808l.;l.,l.,l.,l.l.l.l.,l.:l.,l.:l.,l.l.l.,l.,l.l.,l.,l.l.,l.;l.l.;l.;807Mr. Hume
 cited several cases of infinite hardship occasioned by nullity of marriage in consequence of minority.Dr. Phillimore
l.l.816l.l.l.l.l.815l.l.l.,l.;l.,l.;l.l.;l.l.l.;814l.,l.;l.l.,l.;l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.,l.l.;l.l.;l.l.813l.:l.l,;l.l.,812l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.;l.,811 said, that the hon. gentleman in the course of his remarks had not pointed out a single place or establishment which he thought should be suppressed. He called on the hon. gentleman to name one that could be dispensed with; though he did not pledge himself that those who had the charge of this department of the public service would accede to the recommendation of the hon. gentleman, because he conceived that from their experience they were best able to judge what establishments were necessary. He thought, however, that he had already stated sufficient proofs of the sincere desire which the noble individual at the head of the ordnance had to make every reduction for the sake of economy that was consistent with the efficiency of the establishment over which he presided. Those petty clerks on whose pensions the hon. gentleman had animadverted, were not he believed, known even by name to the noble duke, who had granted them pensions on the recommendation of those who were acquainted with the nature of their services and their claims. He was completely at issue with the hon. gentleman on the construction of the act of parliament which the hon. gentleman had erro-
l.l.816l.l.l.l.l.815l.l.l.,l.;l.,l.;l.l.;l.l.l.;814l.,l.;l.l.,l.;l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.,l.l.;l.l.;l.l.813l.:l.l,;l.l.,812l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.;l.,811Mr. R. Ward
d.s.l.l.l.l.,l.,l.l.,l.,l.l.l.806l.,l.,l.,l., rose, in consequence of the indisposition of his noble friend, to move the Ordnance Estimates. The right hon. gentleman began by stating, that although many persons were of opinion that our military establishment was too large, he was persuaded that it was not greater than the circumstances of the country demanded; The increase of expenditure in the department with which he was connected, amounted on the whole to 133,000d.s.l.l.l.l.,l.,l.l.,l.,l.l.l.806l.,l.,l.,l.,Mr. R. Ward
ex parte certainly did not mean to go into a discussion on the great question of the 4½ per cent duties, and their proper application: it was a question on which great difference of opinion existed; but it had recently been debated in both Houses of Parliament, and the majorities had declared themselves of the opinion which was now acted on by government. But in steering clear of discussion he said distinctly that the hon. gentleman had proceeded on ex parteMr. R. Ward
818l.817l.l.l. said, an extraordinary answer had been made to an objection which he felt an interest in, as it was similar to one which he was about to make. When it was objected that a sum should not be voted for Gibraltar because there were other means of supplying that expense than by a vote of parliament, it was answered, that it should be made the subject of a separate motion, and this too in a committee of supply [Hear, hear!]. Now, he would not consent on the part of the people of England to pay for the repairs of forts at Barbadoes and the Leeward Islands. He would produce an act of the assembly of Barbadoes which provided for that express purpose without burthening the people of England. The hon. member then read the Act of the Assembly of Barbadoes of 1663, declaring that it was necessary for several purposes relating to the government of those colonies, and specially for "the reparation of the forts," that a competent revenue should be raised, and that for those purposes they granted a duty of 4½ per cent to be levied on all imports [[Hear!]. What, then, had they to do but to apply this revenue? He would prove that the revenue existed. There were papers before the House showing that the duties had produced 57,276818l.817l.l.l.Mr. Creevey
 thought a system of protecting duties inconsistent with the sound principles of political economy, as hey could only be meant to force a manufacture. The duties alluded to had, however, existed in Ireland for 20 years, and if that period were not sufficient to afford the Irish manufacturers an opportunity of preparing for their repeal, what assurance was there that their further continuance, or that any proposed principle if gradual reduction, would have the effect which the right hon. gentleman professed to have in view?Mr. W. Parnell
 observed, that the statement of the petitioners was quite incorrect. Instead of the timber, as they alleged, being colonial, and which was imported into this country from Quebec, the fact was, that such timber was the growth of the north-west part of the province of New York. He had himself written to lord Bathurst on the subject, for such was the effect of that trade between our American colonies and the United States, that in the last war our colonies were wholly drained of silver. The sooner a duty was put on the importation of that timber the better. We had, by the preference given to that trade, lost a good customer in Russia and the other Northern States.Sir Isaac Coffin
 opposed the clause as contrary to the principle of the Marriage act, which rendered inoperative marriages so contracted, with respect to all the parties. This proposal had, it seemed, been rejected last year, and he thought correctly.Sir John Nicholl
 said, that he certainly had misunderstood the purport of the clause, but now comprehending its object distinctly, he entirely acquiesced in its propriety.Sir John Nicholl
 observed, that there was one circumstance respecting the office held by the noble marquis, to which no allusion had been made either that night or previously. It was well known that a judicial office had been held by his father, which usually enabled its holder to amass a large fortune. That office he had resigned; and it should alwa3's be remembered what the cause of that resignation was. It had taken place because he believed it necessary to the defence of the rights and liberties of his country—believing that to save a compromise of his principles, he was obliged to separate himself from the administration then in power. It was upon the question of the Middlesex election, that, differing in opinion from his colleagues, he had thought he could no longer retain the chancellorship. The recollection of this fact should endear the memory of the father, and secure for his descendant the respect and attention of the country.Lord Milton
 in reference to 11,000 discharged men that had been called out in the course of the last year, wished to know whether that was done without any vote of parliament. As far as he recollected, no vote had been agreed to on the subject. The number of the army on the 25th of March last exceeded, by 11,000 men, the number voted by the Mutiny bill in 1819. The number of men was stated annually in the preamble of the Mutiny bill, and these 11,000 men were arrayed when parliament was not sitting. No notice had been taken of this circumstance during the last session; at least no official notice. The noble lord might perhaps have mentioned it, incidentally, in his speech, but no vote of that House had taken place with reference to this subject. He could not conceive why it had been thus passed over.Lord Milton,
838 replied, that there were no charges for infantry, and that it was the temporary and superseded character of the local militia which occasioned the expense now charged under that head. What were called skeleton waggons, were in perfect repair, and it would be against every principle of economy to sell or destroy them. The art of driving them was not to be acquired at once by a peasant or a ploughman. He thought Sandhurst preferable to Marlow for the situation of the military college. The commander-in-chief had had an increased allowance since 1814, but it was in lieu of other allowances previously given to field-marshals. The duke of Wellington got the same, the fluctuating allowances of field-marshals having been exchanged for a fixed sum. He then proceeded to defend the salary assigned to the judge-advocate, which he maintained was deserved by the services of that officer, who was in constant communication with the military commanders at Ceylon, the Cape, the Ionian islands, and also in Ireland, now that the office of judge advocate was abolished in that country. With respect to the observations which had been made on the Military College, they did not appear to him to be well founded; and really as to the calculations of the hon. gentleman regarding it, he confessed his inability to follow them. He maintained, that not more than a proper number of commissions had been granted to the cadets educated there, and those only upon a full conviction of the merit of those to
838Lord Palmerston
825l.l.l.:l.l.,l.,l.,l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.824l.,l.;l.l.,l.,l.,l.,s.l.,l.;l.823l.;l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.;l.l.,l.,l.;822l. again rose to bring forward the Army Estimates. He commenced by referring to particulars; and first to the staff, on which he said there was a total saving of 13,701825l.l.l.:l.l.,l.,l.,l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.824l.,l.;l.l.,l.,l.,l.,s.l.,l.;l.823l.;l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.;l.l.,l.,l.;822l.Lord Palmerston
 maintained, that, according to the argument of the noble lord, the Crown could not, in any emergency, however great, levy a number of men without the consent of parliament. If this were the case, in what a dangerous situation would the country be placed, if a foreign foe were to land in the country during a dissolution of parliament!Lord Palmerston
805l.,l.;l.;s.l.s.l.l.l.;l.l.,l. rose to move the Army Estimates. In proposing those estimates to the committee, he did not feel it necessary to go through an explanation of each particular item: he would confine himself chiefly to those in which there was any material variation from the charge of last year. The committee would perceive that there was this year an increase of force, amounting, including officers, to 11,745 men, making an increase of 220,000805l.,l.;l.;s.l.s.l.l.l.;l.l.,l.Lord Palmerston
 presented a petition from the shipbuilders of the port of London, stating the distress under which they, and those dependent on them laboured. They were not enabled to give employment to the one-third of their former amount. It might be thought that they would be favourable to a remission of the duties on timber coming from the Baltic, as the timber would be cheaper; but they were not so. They had the good sense to see, that if that trade were opened, it must have the effect of destroying the trade with our North-American colonies, which they stated would be most injurious to our shipping trade. The petition, he observed, was signed by one of every respectable ship-building firm (with one exception) at both sides of the water, from one end of the river to the other.Mr. Marryat
 said, that if ever there was a body of British subjects entitled to the consideration and respect of parliament, it was the present petitioners.—During all the difficulties of the war, they had been ready to make every sacrifice for the safety and honour of the country. He hoped that no interference would be made with those navigation laws which had so essentially led to our maritime greatness.Sir W. Curtis
l.,858Obsta principiiss.1.s.l.857856855854853852851850l.l.;l.l.:l.l.l.l.;l.;l.l.849l.l.,l.,848l.l.;l.847* From the original edition published by the committee of the society of ShipOwners. said: Mr. Speaker; I feel it my duty to bear testimony to the truth of the allegations contained in the petition now in the hands of my honourable friend the member for the city of London; and to give my best support to the prayer of the petitioners. They state that they are labouring under great and serious difficulties, as well from the depression of commerce, as from the competition of foreign ship owners; and the facts of the case unfortunately bear them out too well in the assertion; for no description of property has, I believe, been depreciated to j such an extent as that of the British ship owners. I admit, that on the breaking out of the late war, the value of shipping rose, the rate of freight advanced, and I that the ship owners, in common with the landholders, the manufacturers, and all other classes of the community, enjoyed for a time a considerable share of prosperity. Ships, however, are but of limited duration; they last from fifteen to twenty years, according to the goodness of the materials of which they are built. The
l.,858Obsta principiiss.1.s.l.857856855854853852851850l.l.;l.l.:l.l.l.l.;l.;l.l.849l.l.,l.,848l.l.;l.847* From the original edition published by the committee of the society of ShipOwners.Mr. Marryat*
 said, that it was not intended on his part, or that of those with whom he concurred, to interfere with any part of our colonial policy, the timber trade alone excepted, and that nothing was farther from his purpose than to injure the interest of our shipping. There was, indeed, no class with whose interest he would be more unwilling to interfere, than that connected with our shipping. But when the whole question should be regularly brought before the House, after due and deliberate consideration by the committee for the appointment of which he proposed to move, without making any observation, after the present motion was disposed of, he would enter fully into the discussion of this subject.Mr. Baring
867866 said, that the case of Grampound was one which admitted of no justification, and it was impossible to deny that a system of corruption had for a long period of time existed in that borough, which called for the animadversion of the House. In considering, however, the remedy which it would be roost expedient to apply to an evil which was admitted on all hands to exist, he confessed himself unable to accede either to the proposition of the noble lord who
867866Mr. Davies Gilbert
 rose to move, that the farther discussion of this question be adjourned till to-morrow, alleging the absence of his majesty's ministers at a cabinet council, upon a subject of high importance, as the ground of this motion.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he was willing to accede to any arrangement which might accommodate the right hon. gentleman, but he fell that upon the present occasion he was scarcely at liberty to do so, without the concurrence of his hon. friend the member for Durham, whose motion upon the state of the representation stood for to-morrow.Lord J. Russell
864 in rising to move the order of the day for the committal of the bill upon this subject, stated, that he did not feel it necessary at present to occupy much of the attention of the House, as he had already so fully explained the nature and object of the bill. With respect to the question, whether the
864Lord John Russell,
865 spoke in favour of the bill, which he thought highly honourable to the public spirit, judgment, and perseverance of his noble friend. But the laudable object of the bill would, in his opinion, be lost if the right of election were not transferred from Grampound to some other district;—he meant to some great populous town, from which a direct representation in that House was really necessary. If such a representation had existed for the great towns in the North, he firmly believed that that quarter of the country would not have been agitated in the course of the last autumn. But he was an advocate for this bill from a solicitude to establish parliamentary reform, as well as from a desire to satisfy the public mind. In speaking of reform, he did by no means imply those wild theories which were advocated by the would-be-patriots, who had so much disturbed the country in the course of the last year, and who were in truth the worst enemies of real liberty. He wished also to be understood, that when he urged the propriety of satisfying the public mind, he meant the intelligent, well regulated opinion of the country, which had unanimously decided in favour of reform, and against which all the eloquence of the
865Mr. R. Smith
 said, that he had moved the adjournment of this debate, not from any considerations of personal convenience; but because their duty to their sovereign demanded the attendance of ministers in another place. It would be for the House to determine whether the debate should be adjourned till to-morrow, or to any other day.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 deprecated the idea of confining this measure merely to the extension of the right of voting to the hundreds adjoining Grampound, as such a proceeding must, among other exceptionable results, serve to give an undue right of voting to the freeholders of a particular district, and that too in a county which had the power of returning an amply sufficient number of members to that House. But upon what ground could the total disfranchisement be resisted? For, as to the precedents, where was the precedent to show such flagrant corruption as had existed in this borough, where no candidate dared even propose that the bribery oath should be administered? It was urged in objection to the proposal for transferring the right of election to Leeds, that there was no precedent for the creation of the right of voting by an act of parliament. But this allegation was an egregious mistake, as there were many such precedents. In Chester, in Durham, and in the Welsh counties for instance, the right of voting was created by different acts of parliament. With respect to the question, whether there should be four representatives for Yorkshire, or whether the right of electing two members should be conferred upon Leeds, he hoped the friends of this measure would not allow their strength to be weakened by any dissention upon such a question, but that all would unite in securing that which was most desirable, namely, the total and radical disfranchisement of Grampound.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 objected to the expense of the measure, and contended that from the seventy bankrupt commissioners the offices of the commissioners contemplated by the bill might advantageously be filled up. He admitted that three commissioners were better than one. It would prevent any exercise of arbitrary power, by allowing an appeal from the decision of an individual commissioner to the judgment of the commissioners in court assembled. The great advantage, as he understood it, of the noble lord's proposition was, that there would be two examiners under the name of commissioners, who being employed in examining accounts in private, would leave to the chief commissioner the principal administration of the law.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, he held in his hand a petition signed by a number of persons of property and character, in favour of a limited alteration in the representation of that House. The petitioners were the freeholders of the county of the town of Kingston-upon-Hull. Its freeholders, amounting in number to between six and seven hundred, considerable also in property, were not allowed to vote in the election of knights of the shire for the county of York, nor of burgesses for the town of Hull. Though freeholders, they were wholly unrepresented, while at Bristol and Southampton, which were counties within themselves, the freeholders were allowed to vote for the representatives of those places. The present petition had arisen out of the discussion on the Grampound case, and the petitioners prayed, in the event of the transference of the right of return from Gram pound to the two ridings of the county of York, that they may be permitted to vote at such election. He entirely concurred in the views of the petitioners, and considered such a principle of reform both safe and practicable. He took that opportunity of giving notice of his intention, either to ask for leave to bring in a bill to that effect, or of moving a clause with such a purport, to be embodied into the Grampound Disfranchisement Bill.Mr. Sykes
 argued in favour of the appointment of three commissioners.Sir F. Ommanney
 objected to the bill, on the ground that it would occasion two systems to be going on at the same time. The late bill was a grievous disappointment to the country; for it had turned out to be one of the most mischievous and demoralizing legislative measures that had ever been adopted. If, however, the bill were to be adopted, he was sure that three commissioners would be necessary to administer it, and he trusted that they would be able to remedy some of the evils of the late bill.Mr. Wrottesley
 presented a petition, which he said was very respectably signed by the merchants and ship owners of the town of Liverpool. It was different from the petition which he had lately the honour of presenting to the House. It was founded upon a report which had gone abroad of an intended alteration of the duties on timber coming from the Baltic. It pointed out the advantages to be derived from a continuance of the timber-trade to our American colonies, which among its other benefits occasioned a consumption of British manufactures which could not be expected from the Baltic, if we should renew the timber-trade with that quarter by lowering the duties. Such decrease of the duties would, they observed, not only be extremely injurious to the shipowners, but to the seamen now employed, and to those emigrants who had gone out to the Canadas.General Gascoyne
 maintained, that the expense attendant on the measure would by no means be great, and that it would be most advantageously incurred. He agreed, that it was desirable to reduce the number of bankrupt commissioners, but he contended that the best way of doing so would be to adopt the present measure, which would so reduce the profits of the bankrupt commissioners, as speedily to diminish their number.Mr. Abercromby
869 observed, that the country was much indebted to the noble lord who had brought this measure before the House. The most essential part of the bill was, that there should be associated with the chief commissioner two commissioners who should examine accounts in private; and this he contended, was most desirable. In conclusion, he paid a
869Mr. Abercromby
 said, that the House was called upon by the motion of the right hon. gentleman to postpone the debate upon a subject of considerable importance, but the right hon. gentleman had stated no public ground for that adjournment. He was aware that the right hon. gentleman and his colleagues felt themselves in a situation of some difficulty, in consequence of her majesty having embarked at Calais for this country, and that a cabinet council had been this day called upon the subject. This, however, was no ground for delaying the public business; and, though he had every wish to accommodate his noble friend, yet as his own motion upon parliamentary reform stood for to-morrow, he could not consent to the adjournment of this debate, unless some strong grounds for that measure were laid before the House.Mr. Lambton
 took occasion to animadvert upon the practice which had of late crept into that House, of raising a discussion upon mere motions for presenting petitions. The House had been now about an hour and a half engaged in discussing the merits of a petition which was not yet laid on the table, and upon which of course the House was as yet incompetent to decide. Such a course of proceeding was obviously so irregular, whilst it interfered so much with the ordinary business of the House, that he hoped gentlemen would feel the impropriety of persevering in the practice.Mr. M. A. Taylor
 objected to the appointment of three commissioners instead of one. He said, he was averse, in general to the investing any man or body of men with arbitrary power, but such a measure as this could never be efficient, unless the absolute power of carrying its provisions into effect were lodged in a single hand. Three judges in different places would follow different rules and precedents, and decide upon different principles. He thought there should be no appeal in these cases if an appeal were permitted, there would be great risk of a perpetual disagreement among the three members, or it would become a mere mockery of justice, and nothing more than a mere formal decision of the same case before the same court. It was contended that if only one commissioner were appointed, it would be necessary to have examiners out of court; but he saw no such necessity, nor did the proceedings in insolvent cases involve any investigations which one judge was not fully competent to undertake. Unless creditors exerted themselves to bring the property of their debtors under the control of the court, no exertions on the part of the court would be sufficient for that purpose. Upon public grounds, too, the unnecessary multiplication of judicial and other offices, was a subject which ought to be watched with extreme jealousy, and he could not help thinking, that if the committee suffered this clause of the bill to pass, they would give an indirect sanction to a transaction, which was felt throughout the country to be a very gross job; he alluded to the recent appointment of a fifth baron of the exchequer in Scotland. He moved, therefore, that instead of the words, "three-commissioners," the words "one commissioner"' be substituted.Mr. Denman
846 presented a similar petition from the ship-owners of the city of London. It was, he observed, most numerously and respectably signed. It was said, that the decrease of the duties on the Baltic timber was intended to conciliate the northern powers, and to increase our trade with them: but at a period like the present, with the enjoyment of the liberty of the press, and when our newspapers were circulated in all parts of Europs, those powers must see the situation in which this country was placed. They knew the amount of our national debt, and the deficiencies in our ways and means, and they could therefore have no reason to owe us a grudge for a duty on timber. It was not so offensive to them as the duty on foreign wool, which was imposed in the fifth year of peace. It was objected, that the relaxation of the duties on the Baltic timber would open a larger field for the exportation of our manufactures, but it should be recollected, that we obliged our colonies to deal with us exclusively, and they were enabled to do so, to a large extent, by means of this trade; but if we took our timber from the powers
846Mr. Thomas Wilson
862 suggested to the hon. member, who had just sat down, that, according to the arrangement of the business of the day, he could not regularly bring for-
862The Speaker
 said, that fron his own knowledge he could assure the House that not a single emigrant in Canada was employed in cutting down the timber imported from America.Sir Isaac Coffin
"GEORGE R.""The king has the fullest confidence that, in consequence of this communication, the House of Commons will adopt that course of proceeding, which the justice of the case, and the honour and dignity of his majesty's crown may require."The king has felt the most anxious desire to avert the necessity of disclosures and discussions which must be as painful to his people as they can be to himself; but the step now taken by the queen leaves him no alternative.871"The king thinks it necessary, in con-
871"GEORGE R. presented the following Message from his majesty:
"GEORGE R.""The king has the fullest confidence that, in consequence of this communication, the House of Commons will adopt that course of proceeding, which the justice of the case, and the honour and dignity of his majesty's crown may require."The king has felt the most anxious desire to avert the necessity of disclosures and discussions which must be as painful to his people as they can be to himself; but the step now taken by the queen leaves him no alternative.871"The king thinks it necessary, in con-
871"GEORGE R.Lord Castlereagh
l.873"Mr. Brougham is commanded by the queen to express to lord Hutchinson her majesty's surprise at his lordship not being ready to state the terms of the proposition of which he is the bearer: but as lord Hutchinson is desirous of a few hours delay, her majesty will wait until five o'clock, in the expectation of receiving a commu-To this letter lord Hutchinson sent a short note which stated that his lordship had no written proposals, but merely some scattered memoranda on scraps of paper. Mr. Brougham instantly sent the following reply to lord Hutchinson's note:wait to receive it from your lordship.—June 4th, 1820."l.l.872"Mr. Brougham having humbly submitted to the queen, that he bad reason to believe that lord Hutchinson had brought over a proposition from the king to her majesty, the queen has been pleased to command Mr. Brougham to request lord Hutchinson to communicate any such proposition as soon as possible, in writing. The bearer of this (Count Vassali) will*** said:—Mr. Speaker, seeing no member near me disposed to put a question to the noble lord, and with a full persuasion of my own inablity, I still feel most anxious to know from him, whether a letter which has this day appeared in one of the public journals, and which purports to be the letter of lord Hutchinsonl.873"Mr. Brougham is commanded by the queen to express to lord Hutchinson her majesty's surprise at his lordship not being ready to state the terms of the proposition of which he is the bearer: but as lord Hutchinson is desirous of a few hours delay, her majesty will wait until five o'clock, in the expectation of receiving a commu-To this letter lord Hutchinson sent a short note which stated that his lordship had no written proposals, but merely some scattered memoranda on scraps of paper. Mr. Brougham instantly sent the following reply to lord Hutchinson's note:wait to receive it from your lordship.—June 4th, 1820."l.l.872"Mr. Brougham having humbly submitted to the queen, that he bad reason to believe that lord Hutchinson had brought over a proposition from the king to her majesty, the queen has been pleased to command Mr. Brougham to request lord Hutchinson to communicate any such proposition as soon as possible, in writing. The bearer of this (Count Vassali) will***Mr. Bennet
875"Mr. Brougham is commanded by the queen to acknowledge the receipt of lord Hutchinson's letter, and to inform his lordship, that it is quite impossible for her majesty to listen to such a proposition.—Five o'clock, June 4th, 1820."As soon as this letter was read by the queen, Mr. Brougham, at her majesty's request, made the following answer in writing:HUTCHINSON."'shore.' I cannot conclude this letter without my humble though serious and sincere supplication, that her majesty will take these propositions into her most calm consideration, and not act with any hurry or precipitation on so important a subject. I hope that my advice will not be misinterpreted. I can have no possible interest which would induce me to give fallacious counsel to the queen. But let the event be what it may, I shall console myself with the reflection that I have performed a painful duty imposed upon me to the best of my judgment and conscience, and in a case, in the decision of which the king, the queen, the government, and the people of England, are materially interested. Having done so, I fear neither obloquy nor misrepresentation. I certainly should not have wished to have brought matters to so precipitate a conclusion, but it is her majesty's decision, and not mine. I am conscious that I have; performed my duty towards her with every possible degree of feeling and delicacy. I have been obliged to make use of your brother's hand, as I write with pain and difficulty, and the queen has refused to give any, even the shortest delay—I have the honour to be sir, with great regard, your most obedient humble servant,874l."Sir;—In obedience to the commands of the queen I have to inform you, that I am not in possession of any proposition or propositions detailed in a specific form of words which I could lay before her majesty; but I can detail to you for her information the substance of many conversations held with lord Liverpool. His majesty's ministers propose that 50,000l.This letter was dated two o'clock on Sunday, and within a few minutes of the stipulated time, Mr. Brougham received the following letter from lord Hutchinson:nication from his lordship at that hour.—2 o'clock, June 4th, 1820." observed, that he could not help admiring the peculiar temper un-
875"Mr. Brougham is commanded by the queen to acknowledge the receipt of lord Hutchinson's letter, and to inform his lordship, that it is quite impossible for her majesty to listen to such a proposition.—Five o'clock, June 4th, 1820."As soon as this letter was read by the queen, Mr. Brougham, at her majesty's request, made the following answer in writing:HUTCHINSON."'shore.' I cannot conclude this letter without my humble though serious and sincere supplication, that her majesty will take these propositions into her most calm consideration, and not act with any hurry or precipitation on so important a subject. I hope that my advice will not be misinterpreted. I can have no possible interest which would induce me to give fallacious counsel to the queen. But let the event be what it may, I shall console myself with the reflection that I have performed a painful duty imposed upon me to the best of my judgment and conscience, and in a case, in the decision of which the king, the queen, the government, and the people of England, are materially interested. Having done so, I fear neither obloquy nor misrepresentation. I certainly should not have wished to have brought matters to so precipitate a conclusion, but it is her majesty's decision, and not mine. I am conscious that I have; performed my duty towards her with every possible degree of feeling and delicacy. I have been obliged to make use of your brother's hand, as I write with pain and difficulty, and the queen has refused to give any, even the shortest delay—I have the honour to be sir, with great regard, your most obedient humble servant,874l."Sir;—In obedience to the commands of the queen I have to inform you, that I am not in possession of any proposition or propositions detailed in a specific form of words which I could lay before her majesty; but I can detail to you for her information the substance of many conversations held with lord Liverpool. His majesty's ministers propose that 50,000l.This letter was dated two o'clock on Sunday, and within a few minutes of the stipulated time, Mr. Brougham received the following letter from lord Hutchinson:nication from his lordship at that hour.—2 o'clock, June 4th, 1820."Lord Castlereagh
 said, it had been his intention to make some observations on the present amount of our military establishment, which, if necessary at all, was, in his opinion, rendered necessary by the measures of government. This, however, would lead to a discussion of greater length than was desirable on the present occasion, and he should therefore defer the consideration of that topic to a future day. If no other opportunity were afforded, he should be driven to the necessity of submitting a substantive motion on the subject. New barracks were about to be built in all parts of the kingdom where none existed at present, and such an appearance of military government was about to be exhibited as had never before been presented in any country calling itself free.Mr. Calcraft
 said, his impression was, that the act applied to all cases, both of superannuation and reduction.Colonel Davies
 regretted that in the first year of the administration of the noble duke, so little attention had been paid to economy in the department over which he presided.Mr. Calcraft
 disclaimed any personal motive in the comments which he had felt it his duty to make.Mr. Calcraft
 thought this a case which loudly called for inquiry.Mr. Williams
879878 expressed his regret that a case of such importance should have been thrust upon the House—a case which required the most serious deliberation before any act should be done—before any resolution should be adopted. The queen had arrived in the metropolis of Great Britain; and how was she received? Not with the gratulations of the ministers of her husband; no, they had long prosecuted her with ignominy and with insult; they had caused her name to be erased from the Liturgy of the country, and they now brought forward what was tantamount to a charge, if not virtually an accusation against her. He had, therefore, taken the earliest opportunity of expressing his unbiassed sentiments on the subject, unconnected with, and uninfluenced by any person whatever. As
879878Lord Archibald Hamilton
881 said, that at the present moment he would not enter into the merits of the subject, even to the length at which his hon. and learned friend had entered upon them. Unhappily (and he said this unfeignedly)—unhappily, not merely for the illustrious parties concerned, but for this House, for parliament, and for the country, a resolution appeared to have been taken which rendered any longer silence upon the subject almost impossible. The time had at length arrived when all men would be called upon to make up their minds upon this most important question, and when his lips would be unsealed from that silence which he had hitherto observed. At the present moment he should only say, and he thought it but fair to give the noble lord the warning, that his majesty's government would not only have to perform the task, and to succeed in the task, of making out a strong case against the queen; but they would have another task to execute, foremost in situation and paramount in importance, as regarded their own justification—they
881Mr. Brougham
882 said, that when he had last night stated his determination to oppose the motion of adjournment, unless some public ground were laid before the House, he had no conception that a measure of such great importance was about to be submitted by his majesty's ministers to
882Mr. Lambton
 said, that since this subject had been discussed, on the moving of the ordnance estimates, he had referred to the act, and he regretted to say, that in section second there was a clause that might admit of the construction for which the right hon. gentleman had contended. He now begged to ask whether those pensions to which he had adverted in the committee of supply, and by which a retired allowance, amounting to one-half of their former salaries, had been granted to several persons, after a service of two, three, and four years, came under that clause of the act to which he had alluded r The object of the act was, in his opinion, to prevent pensions from being granted to individuals for less than ten years service, and he protested against any deviation from that principle, as tending to impose a great expense on the country.Mr. Hume
884 expressed a wish, that with a view to simplify the public accounts, which were in general scarcely intelligible at present, and to enable the House the more easily to judge where any expendi-
884Mr. Hume
885 moved for leave to bring in a bill for providing summary punishment for certain vexatious and malicious injuries. It was unfortunately a subject of just complaint that very great and wanton injuries were committed on young trees, plantations, gardens, &c, for which the present remedy at law was extremely dilatory and unequal. In moving to bring in such a bill, he was not at all entering upon an unusual way of proceeding; for there already existed statutes for the protection of timber-trees, banks, and dams of rivers, &c. Abroad, it was to be observed, that gardens, statues, and other articles of private property, as well ns trees loaded with fruit, and standing immediately by the road-side, were not subject to such malicious and vexatious injuries as those which the proposed bill would go to punish. But it was a mortifying reflection that there was no species of property in England which was exposed in public, that was not speedily injured or mutilated, from the common mile-
885Mr. N. Calvert
l.883 observed, that he had
l.883Mr. R. Ward
l.l. contended, that although there was an excess of 133,000l.l.Mr. Ward
 did not consider the question put by his hon. friend at all calculated to throw any impediment in the progress of the course proposed by the noble lord. It appeared to him to be a very fair and reasonable question. From the want of an answer to it, and the evident disinclination of the noble lord to give it, it was evident that this extraordinary letter was genuine, but that his majesty's ministers were ashamed to own it [Hear, hear!].Mr. Beaumont
876 said, that it was not only competent for any member to ask such questions as the hon. member for Shrewsbury had asked without giving notice of them, but also to make a motion to the same effect. So convinced was he of the propriety of the question put with so much feeling by his hon. friend, that had it not been put, it was his intention to have moved for the production of the papers connected with the late negotiation at St. Omer's, and he actually held in his hand a notice of a motion which he had drawn up with a view to obtain it. He implored the House to consider the situation in which they were placed. They had a message from the king, desiring them to interfere in his behalf. And why? Because her majesty the queen had set her foot in England [Hear!]—for that now appeared to be the chief ground of her offence [Hear!]. Indeed his majesty appeared to have the same objection to her being in the same country with him, which he formerly had to her being in the same drawing-room. In order, therefore, to promote his majesty's wishes, they first
876Mr. Creevey
 said, that it was not his intention at the present moment to enter into any discussion of this most important subject; for, both in a personal and constitutional view of the question, a fitter opportunity would probably hereafter occur. He confessed that he entertained some apprehension lest he should be betrayed into too strong an expression of those ardent feelings which the subject was calculated to excite, but which, however, gave him infinitely less alarm than the cold, calm, temperate manner in which a proposition of this nature had been brought forward by his majesty's ministers [Hear, hear!]—a proposition full of such weighty consequences to the illustrious individual and to the country. He could not trust himself to press this subject at the present moment; but in common justice to the illustrious individual, whose arrival in the country was greeted with an accusation founded upon paper and not upon witnesses, and which was to be referred, not to the ordinary tribunals of the country, but to a secret committee [Hear, hear!]—standing in the peculiar situation in which he did, he felt himself entitled to call upon the noble lord opposite to state distinctly, when he came down tomorrow to the re-consideration of this awful subject; what was the nature of the proceedings which it was intended to institute against her majesty?Mr. Denman
 observed, that by the act of the last session, which he had the honour to propose, it was expressly provided that Irish vagrants should be passed to Ireland without any punishment at all. They therefore had at present an exemption which was not granted to English vagrants. For any grievance to which the Irish paupers were still subject, he should be happy to assist the hon. member in framing a remedy. But the fact was this, that there was no officer in Ireland to receive those paupers upon their arrival in that country, or to whom an order for removal to their native place could be directed; and the want of such an officer was, he believed, the great cause of the hardship to which those poor beings were at present subject on their arrival in their own country.Mr. Sturges Bourne
 after an impressive appeal to the House upon the various hardships which Irish paupers were condemned to endure in their passage through this country, especially in returning to Ireland, observed, that scarcely a fourth of those who annually returned to Ireland were able to survive their sufferings. The hardships they underwent, which were but too often aggravated by the infliction of corporal punishment, were owing in a great measure to the manner in which their subsistence was provided for, that subsistence being paid for by the county, while the allowance to English paupers in their conveyance through the country was paid by the respective parishes. But the punishments inflicted upon the Irish paupers formed their greatest grievance, the lower order of English parish-officers, who charged those paupers as vagrants, being but too apt to consider Irishism as a crime. The hon. gentleman concluded with moving for the production of a copy of the correspondence between the seneschal of Belfast, and the chief secretary for Ireland, respecting paupers sent from England to Ireland.Mr. W. Parnell,
 observed, that it was not because there were many political economists or few paupers in Ireland, that there were no poor laws in that country, but the fact was, that while the poor were objects of regard and consideration in this country, they were, he was sorry to say, mere objects of contempt in Ireland.Mr. W. Parnell
877 assured the House that no motion had ever occasioned him more acute regret than that which had just been submitted to the consideration of the House; He trusted, however, that in the appeal which he was going to make to their generosity, he should meet with
877Sir Robert Wilson
 said, that he should vote for the motion, although he must must confess his inability to see any permanent remedy for the grievances alluded to, but that remedy which would be worse than the disease, namely, the introduction of the system of the poor laws into Ireland, than which nothing was more to be deprecated, especially in a country where the paupers were so numerous, while those able to pay poor's-rate were comparatively so few. But still he felt that some temporary remedy should be devised for the relief, as far as it was practicable, of the poor beings alluded to. But then how was that remedy to be found? It would be unfair to saddle exclusively upon those districts of the Irish coast which were immediately opposite to England, the maintenance or the expence of transferring all paupers who should go over from this country; and from what fund was this expence to be defrayed?—He felt with his hon friend the necessity of providing some remedy in this case, but still he conceived it a question of infinite difficulty to adjust.Sir J. Newport
 protested against the idea of delegating the functions of that House to any committee, or of allowing ministers to transfer to such committees their responsibility for the public accounts.Sir, J. Newport
 deprecated the idea of attributing any member's conduct to the influence of personal motives, or of supposing that to discuss the proceedings of a public officer, implied the existence of any personal zeal against that officer. It was absurd to maintain that the former services of the duke of Wellington, or of any other public man, should shield him from the responsibility which attached to any public office which he thought proper to accept.Sir J. Newport
 moved for leave to bring in a bill to repeal so much of an act of the 39th of the late king, for the suppressing of the illicit distillation of spirits in Ireland, and the imposing of fines for offences of that nature on townlands and baronies, as directed grand juries to present off counties half the expenses of the extraordinary police establishment required under the provisions of the same act.Sir J. Stewart
 expressed his readiness to assist in any bill for the getting rid of the military police introduced into many parts of Ireland by the existing excise laws. He adverted to the great number of informations for illicit distillation at the last assizes at Donegal; and was of opinion, that ministers were called upon to relieve Ireland from so great a burthen as was imposed on her by the present excise laws.Lord Mountcharles
928927926925924923922921l.920l.919918917916ex-parte915914913912911in limine,910909in limine,908907 expressed his persuasion, that in rising to call the attention of the House to the message which had just been read, and to propose that course of proceeding which it appeared proper to pursue, the House would readily perceive the great pain of the duty which devolved on him in introducing to their notice one of the most delicate, anxious, and momentous public questions that ever was agitated in parliament. And he could assure them, that if he and his colleagues were not confident that every consistent and practicable effort had been made on the part of government to avert the pain-
928927926925924923922921l.920l.919918917916ex-parte915914913912911in limine,910909in limine,908907Lord Castlereagh
983 said, that after the manner in which the motion had been seconded, he should only say, that he believed it was a motion consonant with his feelings, and, he believed, with the feelings of every honest man in the country.
983Mr. Wynn
 said, that after what had taken place he had very little hope of any compromise; but as a great many members thought that the delay might produce a compromise, the House would do well to consider whether it ought not to make that small sacrifice.Mr. S. Wortley
985 said, he would not oppose the motion for delay. It marked the spirit which pervaded the House; and that spirit was the same in which, he trusted, it would be allowed ministers themselves had acted. He could not be responsible for the effect of the delay; indeed, it was his conviction that little could be expected from it; but he was not therefore the less disposed to bow to the wisdom of those who entertained a different opinion, and had expressed that opinion. It was not his intention to enter into dispute; but, if he had been disposed for controversy, provocation had not been wanting. If ever he had listened to a speech calculated to induce an individual to commit himself, it was the speech which had been delivered by the right hon. gentleman opposite; and there was one sentence in that speech, upon which he would try to draw down the indignation of the House. It had, by the right hon. gentleman, been made a reproach to ministers, that they had not counselled his majesty to take a different course from that which he had thought it proper upon this occasion to pursue. To what the sovereign
985Lord Castlereagh
 intreated ministers to consent to allow the House and the country time to pause, and to reflect on the important subject, by agreeing to the motion of an adjournment.Mr. Davenport
969968967966965964963962961960incognito959renouncel.958957l.;l.l.956l.;l.955l.l.l.954953952951 declared, that as he had never risen to deliver his sentiments on a subject of so much delicacy and interest as that before the House, so had he never before been called upon to discharge a duty to himself so painful and embarrassing. The occasion out of which the necessity for performing this duty arose, and the circumstances connected with it, were of a nature as novel as they were delicate. He had listened with the greatest attention to the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman who had just sat down. In every syllable uttered by the hon. and learned gentleman respecting the mischief likely to result from the inquiry into which they were now unhappily forced, he entirely concurred. It was utterly impossible that such an inquiry should turn to the advantage of the country, or of the parties whom it immediately concerned. The dearest interests of the country, and the character of the most illustrious personages whom it contained were undoubtedly involved in the proceeding. But having said this, he must follow it by saying that from all that part of the hon. and learned gentleman's speech which went to impute to his majesty's ministers the responsibility of forcing on this inquiry, he utterly and wholly dissented. In taking up the challenge which the hon. and learned gentleman had thrown down on this subject last night, he was fully prepared to show not only that his majesty's ministers did not voluntarily come down to parliament to originate this inquiry as matter of choice, not only that they had not sought the occasion for it—not only that they had deprecated it with all their hearts—but, that they had interposed every possible expedient to prevent the occurrence of a calamity which they were anxious with all their power and all their means to avert.969968967966965964963962961960incognito959renouncel.958957l.;l.l.956l.;l.955l.l.l.954953952951Mr. Canning
bona fide905 in seconding the motion, observed, that the excise officers of Ireland were now, by the existing laws, in-trusted with the management of a sort of extraordinary police. In consequence of the late acts to prevent illicit distillation, many districts of Ireland were reduced to
bona fide905General Hart,
981980ex parte979l.978They build a magazine."When nothing's left that's worth defence,Here Irish wit is seen;"Behold a proof of Irish sense,977976975l.l.974l.l. said, it was impossible that any man of good feelings could come to this question without the deepest anxiety. He thanked God, that he had nothing to do with the negotiations which seemed to have brought all the parties concerned in them into a piteous plight. All he knew of them was what he had picked up in the course of the discussion. If only the speech of the right hon. gentleman who had last spoken, had been uttered, he should have felt himself bound to say a few words, because without any negotiation at all, and without even any consciousness on his part, it had been proved by the right hon. gentleman, by an argument like the House that Jack Built, one thing drawing on another, that he who knew nothing about these negotiations, was the cause of every one of them; for that if it had not been for the clause which he had introduced into the bill of 1814, limiting the income of the then princess of Wales to the life of his late majesty, nothing of this kind could possibly have occurred. He begged leave to explain that circumstance. At that time it was proposed to give her majesty for life an income of 50,000981980ex parte979l.978They build a magazine."When nothing's left that's worth defence,Here Irish wit is seen;"Behold a proof of Irish sense,977976975l.l.974l.l.Mr. Tierney
973972971970 in rising to explain, ex-
973972971970Mr. Brougham,
950949948947946945944943942941940939l.,incognito.938l.l.937936935934933ex parteprima facie932931930929 assured the House and the noble lord, that the noble lord himself could not have risen with greater pain than he did on the present occasion. That pain, however, was occasioned not by any reluctance to perform that which he felt to be his bounden duty, but from his consciousness of the importance of the interests entrusted to his care. The hour was now come when it was incumbent on him to defend those interests to the best of his ability, although under the consciousness of his inadequacy to so great a task. On such an occasion it was natural that he should feel an anxiety, painful on every consideration; whether he regarded the vital importance of the discussion to the illustrious individual most immediately concerned, to the dignity of that great family with which that illustrious individual was connected by blood and marriage, or to the interests of the community at large. Nor was it less important as it regarded the constitutional course of justice, and the character of parliament. To that parliament the illustrious lady to whom the present question referred, made her appeal. She courted not those mobs of which the noble lord had spoken. Her sagacity, not inferior to that of any person in public or private life, whom he had ever known, and the propriety of her mind, which, in spite of the calumnies which had been so industriously circulated, was not impaired by what was so generally ruinous to the delicacy of a female—absence from her family, where delicacy of character was best cherished—a removal from the country deprecated by her, but to which she felt it necessary to submit—and, above all, the withdrawing of that salutary control which more than any other cause established domestic habits, and was the best preserver of female propriety and delicacy—he repeated, that that sagacity and propriety with which nature had largely endowed her,
950949948947946945944943942941940939l.,incognito.938l.l.937936935934933ex parteprima facie932931930929Mr. Brougham
 rose for the purpose of seconding a motion which, if adopted, would carry with it the blessings of the country. If the motion, on the contrary, were rejected, evils were impending over the country, of which no man, however wise, could foresee the termination, and which no man, however bold, could contemplate without apprehension. His majesty had condescended in this emergency to ask advice from parliament, and it was impossible that parliament could offer to the monarch any advice more salutary than to spare to himself, to the Crown, to that House, and to the morality, the delicacy, and the reputation of the whole country, disclosures at once so perilous and so painful as those with which the public ear was at the present moment threatened.Mr. Fowell Buxton
 said, that whilst he considered it an honour to be what was called a party-man, and had usually voted with ministers, he did not think this a question of party. He should therefore vote against the original question, and support the adjournment. It was his wish to notice a declaration made by a right hen. gentleman respecting the residence of the queen. He dissented from those who thought that such an adjustment was likely to take place as would render this country an agreeable residence for her majesty. He thought this a subject pregnant with mischief; and the best way to promote an amicable adjustment was, in his opinion, for the queen to remove from this country. Her majesty might remain at some near port, where she could have the means of communicating immediately with her legal advisers. But the longer she remained in London, the greater the danger was, and the more injurious it might prove to the country. He wished to know from a worthy alderman opposite (Wood), whether he had advised the queen in her present course of proceeding.Mr. R. Martin
982 said, there was nothing but the absolute despair of any reconciliation or adjustment in this case, which would compel him to abandon the course which he now felt it his duty to adopt, with a view of preventing the dreadful discussions with which they were threatened. His hon. and learned friend had stated, that the proposition respecting the title of the queen, which had been made in a different sense from that which had been submitted to him, was the chief cause of the unfortunate termination of the negotiation. That alone was a powerful reason with him for thinking that an accommodation was not yet impossible. He could not help entertaining also some hopes, not only from the circumstance, that the present proceedings became in some degree necessary from the conclusion of the negotiation abroad, but also from the circumstance that the proceedings had commenced so soon after the arrival of the queen. He believed there was not a man in the House who did not participate in his feeling of wishing, if possible, to prevent the investigation from proceeding farther if it were possible; because if the step then recommended to them was once taken, retreat would be found impossible after it. If he discovered a spirit in the House likely to accede to such a suggestion, he would propose an adjournment of this question for a day or two, in order to see whether, through the instrumentality of common friends, some compromise might not take place between the two parties. On every account, such a measure would be desirable, and, amongst others, on account of the public
982Mr. Wilberforce
 interacted his majesty's ministers to accede to the proposition. In so doing, they would give satisfaction to a large portion of the House, and to the country.Sir E. Knatchbull
984 felt that his majesty's ministers would not pursue the line of conduct which had hitherto entitled them to the good opinion of the country, if they persevered in the motion which had been brought before the House. Precipitation might produce consequences the most alarming, and the postponement of the question could at least not be productive of any ill-effects. On what ac-
984Sir T. Acland
 said, he felt great delight on hearing the motion for an adjournment offered to the consideration of the House by the hon. member. A few days would not injure the consideration of the question, and he hoped that his majesty's ministers would consent to the delay.Mr. Gooch
l.1005 after adverting to several protecting duties which had been granted to various branches of Irish trade by the act of Union, and which would cease in the present year, declared it to be his intention
l.1005The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
1006 concurred with the general principles of the hon. gentleman, but he perceived that the hon. gentleman himself was not prepared to apply those principles to Ireland. The situation of Ireland was, indeed, very peculiar, as far
1006Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 observed, that the duties alluded to were protecting duties for England as well as for Ireland; and expressed a difference of opinion from his right hon. friend with respect to the duty upon coals.Mr. J. Foster
 declared himself an advocate for the total removal of all obstacles to the commercial intercourse between England and Ireland. He thought that the custom-houses between the two countries should cease to exist—that the interchange of their productions and manufactures should be entirely uninterrupted—that, in a word, the passage across the Channel should be as free and unembarrassed as that from one town to another in either country. It was, indeed, most vexatious to think, that every man now passing from the one country to the other was liable to have, not only his portmanteau or trunks, but even his person and the clothes he were rigidly examined by custom-house officers. Such a system ought not to be allowed to exist.Mr. J. Foster
1004100310021001 rose, pursuant to a notice he had given, to ask for leave to bring in a bill "for enabling Landlords more speedily to recover possession of Farms, unlawfully held over by Tenants," and he trusted the House would give him credit for being aware of the difficulties and embarrassments which surrounded him in approaching a subject, which had at different periods been ineffectually undertaken by persons infinitely more competent to the task than himself. Imputations of inconvenient delay, and of expense disproportioned to the object of litigation, had been frequently, and freely applied to the administration of the law in this country. There was some compensation, perhaps, in the diminution of suits, and the compromise of differences, necessarily consequent upon the unwillingness of parties to engage in dilatory and expensive proceedings, yet, in cases where an indisputable right existed on the one hand, which was fraudulently or forcibly withheld on the other, and where it was absolutely essential for the common purposes of substantial justice, between man and man, in the ordinary and unavoidable
1004100310021001Mr. Tennyson
 considered those duties injurious to Ireland as well as to England, especially in the intercourse between the two countries.Mr. Ricardo
 said, he was glad to see even that the time was to come when the country would rouse to those right principles, from which there never should have been any deviation; and hoped, that when the question of bounties with respect to linen, was brought forward, a proposition would be adopted to limit the existence of those bounties also to a certain period, as they were quite as objectionable, upon principle, as the duties referred to in the resolutions before the committee.Mr. Ricardo
1009 rose for the purpose of moving that the order of the day for "referring the papers presented on Wednesday last to the House to a secret committee, to consider the matter thereof, and to report the same, with their observations thereupon, to the House," should be then read, in order to its being further adjourned till Monday next [Cries of Hear!]. In making that proposition to the House, he thought it right to state, that he made it in consequence of a proposition which had been received at a late hour that day
1009Lord Castlereagh
1010 disclaimed any intention of imputing improper delay to the hon. and learned gentleman or his client. He had merely mentioned the lateness of the hour at which the proposition had
1010Lord Castlereagh
 observed, that one of the great advantages arising from the step which the House had taken on the night of the adjournment was this—that no one could suppose that the renewal of the negotiation, come from whichever party it might, was the result of any other feeling than a deference to the wishes of the House of Commons, re-echoed back to it as those wishes had been by every individual from one end of the country to the other [Cheers].Mr. Wynn
 said, that such was the reduced state of the navy that he believed no naval officer in that House could go on board a common guard-ship and find men enough on board to man a boat in an officer-like manner. He thought the lords of the Admiralty had not discharged the duty which they owed to the country, in reducing the navy so low as they had done; and said, he was not one of those who believed that the continent was in such a state of security as to justify the dismantling of our army and navy.Sir F. Ommanny
1020 said, that the statement just made by the right hon. gentleman could not but interest the feelings of the House. He could not agree, however, with the right lion, gentleman as to the expediency of extending the limits which it had been deemed expedient to apply to the granting of pensions. Pensions had increased to so great
1020The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that, upon its being considered that some further remuneration was due to this gentleman for the benefit which the navy had derived from his invention, a communication to that effect had been made to the Treasury by the first lord of the Admiralty. In consequence of that communication, it had been arranged that some provision should be made, by which his family would be benefitted, and he believed that this arrangement had since been carried into effect.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.s.s.s.l.s.1023 stated, that he should not have occasion to trespass long on the attention of the committee, it having been generally understood, in consequence of a former arrangement, that he should defer any specific explanation of the finances of the present year until Friday next, when, on submitting to the House certain resolutions respecting the sinking fund and the loan, the supply, and the Ways and Means he would enter fully into the subject. All he had now to-do was, to state the terms of the loan that had been contracted for on the present day. In recommending its confirmation to parliament, he must observe that it was one of the most advantageous bargains ever concluded between the Treasury and the contractors. The price of stocks had this day coincided precisely with what it was when the loan was contracted for last year; and though last year there was an extraordinary degree of competition, the competition was still greater on the present occasion. The contract, in this instance, was a half per cent more favourable to the public than it was in the former year, although the price of the funds was in each case the same. The 3 per cent reduced annuities were now, as they were last year, at 69. The last price, before that stock was shut, was 70½ from which if they deducted the July dividend of 1½ per cent, it reduced it to 69, which was the present price—the same price even to a fraction, which the 3 per cent annuities bore last year. The contract for the loan of last year amounted to
l.s.s.s.l.s.1023The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed his approbation of the loan, which was undoubtedly very Favourable to the public. It was always an evidence of a beneficial contract when the premium was moderate. The right hon. gentleman was however mistaken when he said, that this was the most favourable loan that had ever been concluded. Other loans had been more favourable, with reference to the existing prices of the funds when they were contracted for.Mr. Grenfell
 did not mean to refer to the present loan as the most favourable that had ever been concluded; but undoubtedly he considered it to be one of the most favourable. He had no recollection of a higher relative price of the funds except in one former year.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.,l.,l.,l.;l.,l.l.l.1026 said, that, in the first place, he entirely con curred with the hon. member in applying the principle of competition to all con tracts for the public, wherever it could be safely introduced. There might, how ever, be cases where it would not be practicable to adopt the system. As a general principle it was a good one, and in a variety of instances it was adopted by government. With respect to the hon. member's remark relative to the advances made from the consolidated fund to the public service, the hon. member would understand the matter better by a reference to the 59th of Geo. 3rd, cap. 93, than from any explanation which he could give. He would, however, briefly answer the hon. member's observation. It had been a frequent complaint of different Members, in that House, that a great pro fit was made by the Bank, by holding in
l.l.,l.,l.,l.;l.,l.l.l.1026The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.,l.l.l.,l.,1027l. said, the right hon. gentleman would, he was sure, recollect that, in the commencement of the session in February, 1819, a question arose during the. discussion, relative to the Bank balances, whether the sum of 18,000,000l.,l.l.l.,l.,1027l.Mr. Grenfell
l. said, that the 2,600,000l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l. said, that if the hon. gentleman was acquainted with nautical matters, he would readily perceive that the necessity of having transport stations both at Portsmouth and at Cowes arose from the obvious circumstance, that the direction of the wind might be more favourable to embarkation at the one place than at the other.l.l.Sir F. Ommaney
 denied that any violation of the act had taken place.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, it would be a most desirable thing if some means were devised to get rid of this deficiency of the consolidated fund. One objection to its continuance was, that it rendered the accounts so extremely complex, that he doubted much whether the right hon. gentleman himself understood them. He did not say this with any intention to offend the right hon. gentleman; but he did most positively know that many persons in official situations in the exchequer declared that they could not master them. When such men as his hon. friends, who had spoken in the course of this discussion, and who were in the habit of inspecting figures and accounts, stated that these accounts were unintelligible to them, something ought to be done to simplify them. The deficiency of the consolidated fund was a blot on the statement of their annual finance. It was clear that there was a deficit of from six to eight millions: he knew that that deficiency was provided for quarterly by the Bank; but it should be recollected that they paid the Bank interest for it. If they even paid a little more interest than they did to the Bank, in order to procure money to cover it completely, it would be advantageous to the public, since it would simplify the system. But if they did not raise the money by loan, and chose rather to issue exchequer-bills, still they would not be paying a greater interest than they now paid to the Bank. He was not sanguine enough to contemplate the period, within any moderate lapse of time, when the increase of the resources of this country would enable them to get rid of this deficiency. If the right hon. gentleman could state that in two or three years such an improvement was likely to take place as would be adequate to the expenditure, and also get rid of the deficiency of seven or eight millions, he would not be averse to giving him the full time.Mr. Grenfell
l.l.l.:l.1029l. said, there was one point which might account for the hon. gentleman's observations, which was, that he did not really understand the mode in which the sum of 2,600,000l.l.l.:l.1029l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
s.l.l.l.l. said, if that sum had not been advanced from the consolidated fund, the difference would be, that the Bank would have 2,600,000s.l.l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.l.l.l.;1030l.,l.l. rose, and, adverting to the 12,000,000l.l.l.l.l.;1030l.,l.l.Mr. Grenfell
 observed, in reply, that he feared there would be much confusion in the supposed simplification of proceedings which had been suggested by hon. gentlemen.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1031 believed, that during the war the loans would have been borrowed on worse terms if the public credit had not been kept up by the, sinking fund which had been established by Mr. Pitt and Mr. Fox, and ought to be held sacred. No delusion could now prevail upon the subject; for if its nominal amount had been stated at 17 millions, all classes in the country knew that it only consisted of five. With respect to loans, their result was evident. The present he conceived to have been contracted for on terms disadvantageous to the public; for it was done in a stock, the, nominal price of which was at a discount, of 30 per cent, and that price itself 14 or 15 per cent lower than the stock which, might have been created three years ago. It was most important for every man in the country, in whatever trade or profession, to know how the circulating medium
1031Mr. Alderman Heygate
 denied that he ever intended to say that the circulating medium would be reduced to the full amount of the loan; but he was at a loss to know by what channels it would be poured in again upon the public. He should be most happy to find his fears groundless, and that the circulating medium would be kept up; in which case the industry and the revenue of the country might revive.Mr. Alderman Heygate
 said, he had listened with the greatest attention to the opinions expressed upon this topic from both sides of the House, and particularly from those gentlemen, who as representatives for Ireland were better able to understand the subject than he was. But he found so many jarring interests, and so many conflicting opinions, that he thought it better to take up the subject at a future day upon a general scale, than attempt to discuss minutely a point in which both opinions and interests were at variance. It was his most anxious wish to disembarrass the intercourse between both countries by the abolition of all impeding duties on both sides of the channel as soon as the state of the public revenue would permit. One of his first objects was, to open a free intercourse between the literature of both countries. Others would follow as they seemed most expedient and practicable; and he trusted that before the lapse of many years, those final arrangements so very desirable to every friend of both countries would be adopted.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.;1032 thought it quite unnecessary for the Bank of England to reduce its circulating medium any further than it? was at present reduced. The worthy alderman had said that gold was now at the Mint-price; perhaps he might have said that it was a little under it; for he knew that many persons took gold to the Mint at the. Mint-price, in order to have it coined; and this they could not do if gold was not, in fact, a little under that price, because some space, of time must, elapse
l.l.;1032Mr. Ricardo
l.,l. observed, that on the 5th of July, 1819, there was a deficiency of 8,400,000l.,l.Mr. Ricardo
l.l.l.l.l.,l.,l.l;1025l.s.s.l.l.1024l., observed, that the present loan was made on very satisfactory terms. It was impossible, he thought, that it could be obtained at a more favour-ablerate. He however traced those favourable terms to the recommendation of an bon. friend (Mr. Grenfell) who, some years ago, had advised that the commissioners of the national debt should be allowed to subscribe for the loan to the amount of the balances in their hands. This advice was followed on the present occasion; but if the old course had been adopted, and the loan had been for 17,000,000l.l.l.l.l.,l.,l.l;1025l.s.s.l.l.1024l.,Mr. Ricardo
 said, that no officer in the civil department had ever done so much for the navy as sir R. Seppings.Sir E. Harvey
10191018 hoped that the opposition speech which had been made on the other side the House would produce more effect than those which proceeded from the quarter in which he was standing; and he further hoped that the hon. member who made the opposition speech would follow up that measure by giving an opposition vote. If there were some branches of the naval service in which expenditure had been too profuse, there
10191018Mr. Tierney
 said, that in the delicate situation in which both the noble lord and himself were placed, a superfluous was better than an imperfect explanation.Mr. Brougham
 concurred with the noble lord in the import which he had given to his present motion. It was with a view to have matters kept for Monday in the same state as they were at present, or rather as they were on the last night of adjournment. To be explicit, he wished members to act as if every thing was in that state. He wished to add a few words regarding the delay which the noble lord seemed to insinuate to have taken place on his part. The noble lord had said, that certain propositions had not been received till so late an hour in the day that it was impossible to answer them before the meeting of the House. He would inform the noble lord of the reasons of that circumstance. The party from whom those propositions came thought it most important not to begin a negotiation, lest in beginning it she should appear to be making improper concessions, especially also as the other party, who did not commence any negotiation, stood in a situation not to be injured by making concessions. The strong and earnest remonstrances of her legal advisers had, however at a late hour in the day, overcome the reluctance which the illustrious individual in question felt to being the first to negociate [Hear!]; and he therefore trusted that the noble lord would feel convinced that there was no intention either on his part or on the part of his hon. and learned colleague, to take ministers by surprise in sending to the noble earl at a late hour in the day the communication which they had sent him [Hear, hear!].Mr. Brougham
 said, that at several different quarters there were seven or eight millions due on the consolidated fund; and yet the right hon. gentleman stated that he borrowed from it. By the act of parliament he could not borrow unless there was a surplus, and therefore he conceived that the statute had been violated.Mr. J. Martin
 said, that it was his intention to persevere to a certain degree in the measures which he had proposed on a former occasion, and to bring forward either a bill or bills to correct the evils of the present system of the bankrupt laws. He was placed, however, in a situation which prevented him from bringing them forward at present. From a communication which he had received from the first legal authorities in the kingdom, he had learned that many of the evils to which he had called the attention of the House could be remedied by the authority of the lord-chancellor. He was likewise given to understand, that not only was that noble and learned personage willing to exercise that authority, but that he was even then engaged in drawing up the necessary orders to remedy them. He was well aware that the authority of that noble and learned personage could not remedy the whole of them; but he thought he should not be justified in bringing any specific plan before the House until he saw the orders of the noble lord, and the manner in which they met or avoided the present evils.Mr. J. Smith
l1016l.l.;l.;l.;l.l.;l.1015l.l.l.;1014 observed, that, from the statement of the estimates which he held in his hand, he could not see that the saving in the estimates this year was so large as was stated. He was at a loss to know how such a saving as had been mentioned could be shown. There was a reduction in the total amount of salaries, but this was overbalanced by the excess in the half-pay and superannuations. In the very large items for build-
l1016l.l.;l.;l.;l.l.;l.1015l.l.l.;1014Mr. Hume
1021l.;l;l.l.; asked if it was proper that a transport board should be kept up at Portsmouth, at the expense of 4771021l.;l;l.l.;Mr. Hume
l.l. said, that the authority to borrow 6,000,000l.l.Mr. Hume
l. understood the right hon. gentleman to have said, that he hoped this would be the last loan the country would require for a long time. But how could that be? Were these 12,000,000l.Mr. Hume
l.l. observed, that if the worthy alderman would refer to former cases, he would find, that upon occasions when the heaviest loans had been borrowed to the amount of 20,000,000l.l.Mr. Hume
 said, that as he saw an hon. gentleman in his place, who had paid great attention to the present system of Bankrupt Laws, he would take the opportunity of asking him whether he intended to bring forward again the alterations which he thought it advisable should be made in them.Mr. Finlay
 explained the causes of the clerks not being raised to the rank of pursers. The number of them was considerable; and if the system of raising their rank was to continue, no end could be put to the number of persons who would require half-pay.Sir G. Cockburn
 in reply to the first of the lion, gentleman's observations, observed, that Portsmouth and Cowes were necessary transport stations, as the embarkation of troops for foreign service generally took place at one of these ports, With respect to the remarks on the; charge for stationery, the excess under that head in the Victualling and Navy offices over the expense in the Admiralty office was occasioned by the greater number of ships' books, and other articles of the same description, which were required in the former. As far as he knew, however, no articles but such as were generally called stationery, were classed under that head.Sir G. Warrender,
 said, that in many cases that which was called a protecting duty was, in fact, a tax upon Ireland, particularly the duty of 10 per cent on British manufactured articles imported into Ireland.Sir H. Parnell
 thought it would be of the highest importance to the interest of both countries to have the commerce of this country thrown open to the whole population of Ireland; and he should shortly call the attention of the House to the subject.Sir H. Parnell
 said, that as an hon. and gallant officer had, for once, made an opposition speech, he would make a mi-material speech, and declare, that he thought his majesty's ministers had neglected nothing which could contribute to the happiness and security of the navy.Sir Isaac Coffin
1013l.l.1012║l.l. observed, that nothing was more flat, stale, and unprofitable, than the generality of discussions in that House upon the expenditure of the public money, and especially with respect to the naval estimates of late years. His hon. friend who had just sat down, had stated that there was a reduction of 100,0001013l.l.1012║l.l.Sir Joseph Yorke
l. took that opportunity of asking the chancellor of the exchequer, if sir Robert Seppings had yet received the pension which parliament had recommended last year—he meant, had sir Robert actually touched the cash? He needed not remind the committee that Mr. Harrison, who had been one of the secretaries to the Treasury, had stood precisely in the same situation as sir R. Seppings, and had received a sum of 5,000l.Sir Joseph Yorke
l.l, moved an amendment, that the grant should be reduced 2,000l.l,Sir M. Ridley
l. said, he had no objection to the grant, and admitted that a reduction to the amount of 114,000l.Sir M. W. Ridley
1034 begged leave to suggest that the most speedy and effectual means of promoting the commercial intercourse between both countries was, to begin by an annual reduction of one per cent on the Custom-house duties of ten per cent between both countries recipro-
1034Sir John Newport
 remarked, that some of the duties were extremely oppressive to Ireland and injurious to its commerce. Among the articles materially affected were those of books, pictures, and statues. The effect had almost extinguished the value of copy rights, and annihilated the trade of printing books. Through this, authors naturally sent their works to other parts of the empire; capital was in consequence withdrawn, and in proportion to the amount so withdrawn, the commerce of the country must be injured; he therefore wished the duties might be altogether repealed. The duty on coals was also most severely felt in many parts of the country; and was most injurious to the manufactures and to the poor. He wished these to be gradually diminished.Sir J. Newport
d. defended the superannuation allowances alluded to by his hon. friend, and as to the convicts, he stated, that when these people were idle and unemployed, scenes of tumult and vice perpetually prevailed among them, while, through employment, they were rendered industrious and regular. An allowance of 3d.Sir T. B. Martin
1017 said, that since the peace, 374 ships of war had been sold, and 178 broken up—a reduction almost equal to the number now remaining. He thought that ministers were open to a charge directly contrary to that which had been urged by the hon. member, and that they had been too hasty in diminishing the strength of our navy. We had now a formidable fleet ready to go to sea at a
1017Sir T. B. Martin
 bore testimony to the valuable saving of sir Robert Seppings. His services were beyond all pecuniary reward; and the benefit which the country had derived from those services, was incalculably greater than any sum which could be voted for them. He thought the pension had been too long delayed.Sir T. B. Martin
1036 moved the second reading of the bill. He hoped there would be no objection to this motion as the me-
1036Sir N. Calthurst
 said, he had a petition most respectably signed by several hundred of the inhabitants of Cork, against the measure. This petition he should shortly present. In the mean time, he wished to state that the people of Hull were against the bill. The competition in the trifling branch of trade which was carried on between Hull and the Irish coast, was at present so great, there was little or nothing to be got by it at present; and the bill would render matters still worse. For his part, he considered the principle of the bill so objectionable, that no alterations that could, be made in the committee could make it at all palateable. He would therefore move, "that the bill be read a second time on that day three months."Mr. Curwen
 consented to withdraw his amendment. The bill was read a second time, and, on the, motion of Mr. Boswell, the petitions against it were referred to the committee up stairs.Mr. Curwen
 said a few inaudible words, after whichThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought it extremely hard that the petitioner should be deprived of a remedy. The present evil arose out of the anomalous condition of the law. Persons were required to keep the peace, and were punished for not keeping it, though the government, by taking their arms from them, deprived them of the means of keeping it. It was the duty of government, while it punished men for not doing that which it disabled them from doing, to make up and provide a recompense for those losses, which were the consequences of their own new laws.Sir Francis Burdett
 said: I rise for the purpose of moving the order of the day for the further consideration of his majesty's message, with a view to its postponement until Friday next. In moving this adjournment, I trust the House will feel that it would be unbecoming in me to state any thing that has passed during the discussion, or to say a single word, as on the former occasion, as to the situation in which matters now stand. But I entreat hon. gentlemen to keep themselves and their impressions on the subject precisely in the same state, until a full explanation shall be given as to the position in which the great question may ultimately stand. In proposing to the House Friday next for the postponement of the order of the day, I mention it as the most convenient day. On Thursday his majesty's birth will be celebrated, and it has been usual for the House to adjourn upon that occasion, and I would rather take a later than an earlier period for the further discussion of this important matter. These successive adjournments ought to be viewed, not only as satisfactory to the House, but as material to the public interest, in order that the real state of the question may be made known as early as possible. Before I sit down, I have to beg the noble lord (J. Russell), further to defer the discussion of a question in which he is particularly concerned: any other day would be more convenient than the present, as it will be the duty of his majesty's servants to be in deliberation in the course of the evening. If the discussion to which I refer should be now brought on, I must therefore retire from it.Lord Castlereagh
1041—In the spirit of what has been just said, I may add, that this is a question on which all parties ought to say as little as possible; and I cannot give the House a stronger pledge of my feeling regarding it, than the determination I evinced to pass it over on the present occasion in complete silence. I am happy to hear what has been so properly stated by the hon. baronet and confirmed by the
1041Lord Castlereagh.
l.l. was surprised that his hon. and learned friend should wish to discontinue a provision which had appeared in all former acts of this nature. Some cases ought at least to have been mentioned, as actually proving inconvenience to have arisen from the former state of the law. Had the commissioners, in the exercise of their discretion, ever been known to refuse indulgence to an honest man? If the law were altered, as it now applied to smugglers, be would venture to state, that the revenue would be defrauded with impunity, as it often happened that when the smuggler himself was not a man of property, individuals on the other side of the water would pay down sums of 700l.l.The Attorney General
 presented a petition from the ship owners and others of Ayrshire, earnestly entreating that the bill might not be passed into a law. The petition set forth, that the bill would impose an increased expense on coals imported from the county and neighbourhood of the petitioners; that there were already funds sufficient to meet the expenses; and that the proposed measure would affect the little commerce that remained between the coasts, most injuriously, especially the lime and coal trade.Mr. Boswell
1042 said, there were two descriptions of Crown debtors; one indebted
1042Mr. Bright
l. proposed a clause for extending the benefit of the measure to Crown-debtors, as well as to other insolvent persons. He could not imagine any good reason why the former should be placed in a worse situation than the latter, or why the Crown should exercise the power of confining the person of its debtor, after he no longer possessed any property. He should therefore submit a clause, exempting Crown-debtors from; imprisonment, after a full disclosure, and a discharge of all claims beyond the sum of 200l.Mr. Bright
—I meant nothing, I can assure the House, offensive to any quarter, because I know that offers have I been made to her majesty which would have enabled her majesty to be better; accommodated—pecuniary offers to an unlimited amount, that the queen might be provided for in a much more suitable style. Thus many of the chances of disclosure to which I alluded might have been removed; but accidently her majesty was placed in a situation which rendered it more difficult, as I said, to prevent the access of indiscreet persons.Mr. Brougham.
 said:—I heartily concur in the recommendation of the noble lord, and of my hon. friend who last- spoke, in wishing to abstain from saying one word upon the progress of these transactions. I rise only to express my entire concurrence more particularly in the latter part of the worthy baronet's observations, and to make my most positive assertion, if is be required, that neither the illustrious personage for whom we are concerned, nor her legal advisers, entertain any other sentiment. It is our sincere desire that every thing should be concealed, or known only to the illustrious personage, and to us three, her majesty's legal advisers. If any other disclosure have taken place (though I have seen nothing disclosed, because I have seen nothing the least like the real state of the facts), it can only have been produced by some incredible degree of indiscretion or breach of confidence, for which no blame is attributable to my learned colleagues or myself, nor to the illustrious personage for whom we act; but it must in fairness be in part ascribed to a circumstance, I am sure, as unprecedented as all the rest of these transactions—that her majesty is placed in a situation which renders it difficult to prevent the access of indiscreet persons [Cheers].Mr. Brougham
 entered his solemn protest against the bill. From all that he had heard, and all that he had read, he was satisfied that the measure altogether was a most obnoxious and a most unjustifiable tax on the property and industry of those who had no right to pay it. He trusted it would be thoroughly sifted in the committee, and as he was anxious that it should be so sifted, he hoped his hon. friend (Mr. Curwen), would consent to withdraw his amendment.Sir James Graham
1037 presented a petition from Mr. Andrew Beckwith, who complained that, in the year 1817, his windows had
1037Mr. Peter Moore
1043 presented a petition from certain inhabitants of the city of Coventry, sellers of Roasted Wheat; setting forth,1043Mr. Creevey
1038 reported from the Committee appointed to try the merits of the Petition against the Callington Election reported,1038Sir Charles Burrell
 observed, that though a petition, praying for pecuniary relief, ought to receive the sanction of the ministers of the Crown, yet that the rule should never be extended beyond' the strict necessity of the case; and here, though the hon. gentleman who presented the petition stated that he conceived that pecuniary aid was that which was required by this petition, yet the terms of the petition did not necessarily impose on the House so strict a construction [Hear, hear!].The Speaker
 declared himself to be an enemy to all jobs, and such he conceived this bill to be. The people of White haven and its neighbourhood had already taken the alarm, and entertained a strong dislike to the measure; a paper containing some powerful objections to the bill had been put into his hands, and unless those objections could be upset in the committee, he should continue to say "No" to the measure.Sir Isaac Coffin
 presented a petition from the inhabitants of the town of Galway, who complained of some abuses in the management of their corporation. He had no intention to found any motion on the petition at present, except to move that it do he on the table. He observed that the first sentence of the petition contained one of those lively expressions which, though so familiar to our neighbours, must always appear strange to the duller intellects of the inhabitants of Great Britain. The corporation was described as having been "incorporated by prescription."—Ordered to he on the table.Sir J. Mackintosh
 said:—I rise to express the anxious hope I entertain that every individual, in the House and out of the-House, will so far forward the views of the noble lord, as rigidly to abstain from injuring the cause of either of the illustrious parties, or of the nation at large, by giving publicity to any documents or any correspondence, whether genuine or garbled, which may by possibility fall into their hands. I am sure that I need only mention the circumstance to the House; for every gentleman who hears me will be immediately convinced of the danger that must inevitably arise, from publications which can have only one effect, however unintentional—that of exciting prejudice against one party or the other.Sir M. W. Ridley
 entreated the hon. member not to take the sense of the House in that early stage of the bill. He hoped he would suffer it to go to a committee up stairs.Sir N. Colthurst
l.1048l.l.l.l.1047l. in moving for the printing of certain Bank of England accounts of the public balances, presented yesterday, said, that as there were possibly some members in that very select House, who were not members of the last parliament, and but little conversant with the subject, he begged leave to make one or two observations. Now that the principles, arrangements, and regulations, for which he had so strenuously contended, in common with other members, in the last parliament, were recognized and adopted, he trusted the warfare between the Bank of England and himself was over. When he said warfare, he used that word only in a political sense, for no feeling had ever entered his breast which was not founded upon public and political principles; he had never wished to interfere with the private transactions of the Bank of England, or to suggest any thing contrary to those principles of justice, liberality, and good faith which ought to regulate all transactions between that corporation and the public. It had been proved by documents for which he had at different times moved, that during a period of from ten to twelve years, the corporation of the Bank had been in undisturbed possession of public money, amounting upon aft average to a sum of eleven or twelve millions sterling. The interest upon that sum amounted to 575,000l.1048l.l.l.l.1047l.Mr. Grenfell,
l.l.1049 in explanation, maintained, that within the last twenty-two years
l.l.1049Mr. Grenfell,
 denied that, because when the Bank possessed large balances of the public money they were enabled to make considerable profits from them, it followed that those profits were a loss to the public. The risk they ran, the extensive buildings they erected, and other considerations of a similar nature, entitled them to adequate remuneration. He was persuaded that the advantages enjoyed by any private banking-house were as great, and in some instances greater, than the advantages enjoyed by the Bank; and he was also convinced, from all he had observed, that the Bank were as anxious for the public good as for their own.Mr. Wilson
1050l. conceived, that if it were true, as had been stated, that the Bank had made no larger profits in consequence of its connexion with government, and its retaining these balances than any private concern which might have held them would have made, it must have managed its own affairs very badly. The hon. director bad mentioned, as one of the great advantages which had accrued to the public from the acts of the Bank, the lending of a sum of money, without interest, to the government. But the thing was differently represented by the court of directors at the time. The Bank was then in this situation:—it had been allowed to increase the amount of its capital, instead of dividing a larger amount of profits among the proprietors—that is, instead of making a larger dividend it had been permitted to add to its capital: and the understanding was, that the loan of 3,000,0001050l.Mr. Ricardo
l. said, that the hon. gentleman appeared to have forgotten the great advantages which the public had derived from the Bank in consequence of the advance of large sums of money without interest, or at very low interest. The balance of eleven millions and a half, to which the hon. gentleman had alluded, had been gradually reduced the year after to eight, seven, six, and at length to three millions and a half. In one transaction with the public, he alluded to the issuing of tokens, the Bank had lost no less than 700,000/. In the loan of three millions advanced by the Bank at three per cent, taking the difference between the current interest of five per cent, and that rate of interest, the advantage to the public was not less than 60,000/. a-year. He adverted to a letter of the late Mr. Perceval, in which that gentleman expressed the highest satisfaction at the liberal disposition of the court of directors. The whole annual sum which the Bank received from government, and out of which they had to pay all the expenses attendant on the management of the public business, was only 262,000l.Mr. Peirse
1051 would not support the motion if he conceived it calculated to throw any obstacle in the way of any petitioners to that House; but, if he understood the object of the hon. and learned gentleman, it was to procure more attention to bills
1051Mr. Baring
 conceived that the question was one of serious consideration, and ought to be sent to a committee.Mr. Western
 did not mean to oppose the motion, as he had no objection to make the poor-laws more perfect than they were at present. The hon. member had, however, fallen into some mistakes. The Irish poor might obtain settlements by service, or by holding tenements of a certain rent. If greater facilities were not afforded to them for gaining settlements in this country, it must be admitted that it was no fault of his, as he had been disposed to bring in a bill that would have effected this, but the proposition had not met with the approbation of the House. He said, he knew of no law that authorised the arrest of a man in this country for being a pauper, and it was new to him to hear of carrying paupers to their home described to be transportation.Mr. S. Bourne
 said, that no man could be removed from this country till after he had been examined before a magistrate. He, however, agreed that the Irish poor were at present exposed to great hardships, and was glad to hear a measure proposed, that had for its object the diminution of the evil.Mr. Curwen
 thought the subject one which merited inquiry.Mr. C. Grant
 deeply regretted the distress to which the hon. gentleman had called his attention, but could not give that answer which he had desired to obtain. He was sure the House would feel the painful situation in which government was placed on the present occasion. To interfere in such cases was always a matter of great difficulty, and though the attention of government had been directed to the distress now felt in the South of Ireland, he was not prepared to give what the hon. member might consider a satisfactory answer.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1054 felt the deepest regret at the answer which the hon. member had just received from the chancellor of the exchequer. He concurred with the right hon. gentleman in admitting that extreme caution was necessary in such cases; he knew that interference on the part of parliament on such occasions was seldom thought advisable, and did not know that it had ever been called for on behalf of
1054Mr. V. Fitzgerald
1061 agreeing with the remarks made by the hon. and, learned gentleman, as to the occasions on which a public tribute of applause should be rendered to those who were no more, perfectly entered into the feelings which had been expressed with respect to Mr. Grattan, and thought no individual could hesitate in awarding to his name the honours claimed for it. No man had ever rendered more splendid services to the country, than the individual whose loss was deplored both by the House and the country. He could remember when he (lord C.) first came into public life in 1790, that Mr. Grattan was there in the zenith of his talents, and certainly no talents had ever asserted greater supremacy over a popular assembly than his had done. He was of opinion, that in the great transaction which had been alluded to, England profited not less from the talents of Mr. Grattan than Ireland had done. By the victory which he bad previously gained, Mr. Grattan had laid the foundation for that measure which had united the two islands of Great Britain and Ireland into one empire, and dissipated those mists which had before prevented both countries from seeing their true interests, Mr. Grat-
1061Lord Castlereagh,
1062 entreated the pardon of the House for occupying their attention for a few minutes on a subject which to him was so deeply interesting. He was glad that this occasion had not been allowed to pass, without paying that just tribute of panegyric to the memory of the late Mr. Grattan, because he thought it was due to the feelings of the House
1062Mr. C. Grant
1064 trusted he might be permitted to occupy the House for a few moments, with the expression of those sentiments which were common to all who had ever known the revered individual whose loss the country had now to deplore. He was fully sensible that whatever might be said on the subject, might do honour to themselves and to the country; but could add no honour to the memory of such a man as Mr. Grattan. The hon. and learned gentleman who had introduced the topic to the House, had expatiated on the character of his illustrious friend with an eloquence and a feeling to which every breast responded. It had been truly said by the hon. and learned gentleman, that if they wished to read the history of M. Grattan, they must read the history of his country. With every memorable occurrence in Irish history during the last forty years, Mr. Grattan's name was connected; and he had stamped it with his character. It was superfluous to dilate on this subject. To Mr. Grattan's exertions, Ireland principally owed her independence. In his own words, the revolution then achieved was "alone in the history of empires, the revolution accomplished without shedding a drop of human
1064Mr. V. Fitzgerald
10661065 declared his conviction that the House would make allowance for the feelings which must animate every Irish bosom on contemplating the qualities of the most distinguished and useful patriot that his country had ever produced. Without stopping for a moment to consider his own incapacity to address the House on such a subject, he should be ashamed to sit silently in any assembly where he had a right to deliver his sentiments, when the name, of Grattan was mentioned; and he was sure that his sentiments were in unison with those of all who heard him, when he expressed his deep lamentation for the loss, and his profound veneration and gratitude for the services of the illustrious individual in question. He by no means intended to enter into any detailed panegyric on
10661065Mr. Becher
 thought it was right to continue the protecting duties, when it appeared that manufactories were founded on the faith of them as existing laws; but he did not think it just that Ireland should pay a duty of 10 per cent for necessary commodities.Mr. Williams
1071 begged leave to bring to the recollection of the House the nature of the proceedings which had already taken place on this subject. In the session before last it had been stated in the House, that a petition was coming over from Ireland, praying for a continuance of these protecting duties. On this occasion, he had been asked what were the intentions of government respecting them? when he replied, that government was clearly of opinion that they must cease some time or other, but that they had not then fixed the period for their abolition. Upon farther consideration of the subject, he had plainly foreseen that they could not cease without adequate notice being given, without causing great injury, and he had therefore brought in, his bill with respect to them, which had beep alluded to. He declared that he could not consent now to go an inquiry, which could do no good, and. would only serve to create alarm. If the House had thought it necessary, they might have allowed these duties to continue in their present state for one or two years longer, and then take them again into consideration, with a view to appoint a time for their final extinction. But even that course could not be adopted without great disadvantage; for so long as the manufacturer saw no specific mode pointed, out for the extinction of these duties, he would be inclined to think that they would continue for ever. He could not agree in the opinion of the hon. baronet that the plan was not an intelligible one. It had been approved by three gentlemen of considerable experience in the affairs of Ireland, who had filled the office of chancellor of the exchequer for that country. The measure was intended to benefit the nation at large. With respect to the articles referred to by the hon.
1071The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was for going into the inquiry, not for the purpose of repealing the existing duties, but with a view to ascertain the period to which it would be necessary to continue them.Mr. Curwen
 said, that by the act of Union, the question of continuing or discontinuing these duties, was left entirely open. Now that parliament had evinced a disposition to act upon more enlarged principles of commerce, perhaps, if he had to consider whether he would for the first time propose such duties, he should not be willing to advise the adoption of them. But here they had to deal with duties already in existence; and even so, he would have no objection to go into an inquiry upon them, if it could be got through in the present session. But that was impossible. The argument of the hon. baronet, besides, applied only to two or three articles, whereas, the alarm which would be excited applied to the whole: and there never was a moment when it was more necessary to guard that country from all unnecessary alarm than the present, when commercial credit was so deeply shaken. No course could more directly tend to excite alarm than the course now proposed. With other injurious consequences it would produce a great deal of commercial jealousy.Lord Castlereagh
 rose to oppose the motion. There was no one proposition, he said, which would produce a feeling half so fatal in Ireland as that of the hon. baronet. The state of Ireland at the pre sent moment was so deplorable, that any attempt to agitate this question would produce a feeling of a most distressing nature throughout the whole country; and he had not heard in the arguments of either of the hon. members any thing to induce him to agree to the motion. The hon. baronet said, that there, were many articles in schedule 2, which were not ma nufactured in Ireland; and he asked for a committee to inquire into that subject, forgetting, that the discussion on that point will come on in. the committee on the bill itself. The hon. baronet seemed to suppose, that the whole of the commodity of wrought iron was produced from England alone. There were, however, manufactories for that article in Ireland, and, although they might not perhaps appear considerable to the hon. member for Staffordshire, they were of great importance to the Irish people. He protested against the hon. baronet's construction of the union act. He contended that it was not intended by that act that these duties should cease at the end of twenty years; but at that time it should be competent for parliament to re-consider the subject. It was to prevent their going into an inquiry from which no good could be de rived, and to prevent the mischief which such a step would produce in Ireland in its present distressed state, that he objected to the motion.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
1083 said, that he had been long of opinion that the country suffered under a military force, which it did not require, and that in the different departments of the army there was a shameful waste of expenditure. The hon. colonel next adverted to the public meetings held through the country, which were not, in the opinion of those who attended them, of an illegal description, and did not, at all events, require an increase of the army; for if the peace of the country were seriously threatened, he would much sooner depend upon the exertions of the gentry and the loyal and well-disposed part of the people, by far the most numerous body, than he would upon the dangerous and unconstitutional interference of military power. The actual force in 1819 was equal to all purposes of protection against foreign or domestic enemies. The only pretext for the increase of that force was, the extraordinary apathy of the people who had property to defend in the disturbed districts of England. In Scotland there were 7 or 8,000 volunteers and yeomanry. In Lancashire there were but 500 yeomanry, and not a single volunteer. If the great body of the people were really tainted with revolutionary principles, the addition even of 50,000 men to the military force would not subdue them, but would add fuel to the flame. The history of France and of Spain, and of every other country that had undergone a revolution, proved this. If, on the other hand, the mass of the people were well affected, they should be called on to defend themselves. He should suggest that, as the noble lord (Nugent)
1083Colonel Davies
 spoke as follows:—Mr. Habhouse
1094 said, that though he was aware that a sense of duty actuated the hon. member who had just sat down in delivering his sentiments to the House; yet he could not help noticing some of the opinions of that hon. gentleman. He should not attempt to follow him through all his arguments, but he would beg leave to call the attention of the House to one sentence in which he had said, that he would vote for the disbanding of the army altogether. He would not quarrel with the conclusion arrived at by the hon. member because he was confident that the House would not be induced to ground a vote on it. He would call the attention of the House to the state of the country with which he was connected, and declare it to be his conviction, that unless some precaution was taken before the next session the force now in Ireland would be insufficient. He spoke of the western districts. He had been present at public meetings where unanimous applications had been made for additional troops. The majority of the people was not disaffected. The middling classes of the country and the proprietors were loyal, and opposed to every treasonable practice. Within the last two months peace was preserved in one county only by the introduction of one quarter of the troops which the hon. member had said, would be sufficient for
1094Mr. Vesey Fitzgerald
 explained that he had said "at home."Mr. Hobhouse
1095 of Galway, said, he would tell the hon. gentleman opposite the rea-
1095Mr. Martin,
1096 was ready to bow to the authority of the Chair, but if those expressions were offensive to the House, he
1096Mr. Martin
 stated, that noting was farther from his intention than to say any thing offensive to the House, or to any of its members. He was most penitent, and asked ten thousand pardons.Mr. Martin
 said, he had no objection to refer the matter to a committee, if the House thought proper.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 replied, that he had given notice of such a measure as this in the last session of the last parliament. The hon. member could not therefore say that the House were at all taken by surprise on this occasion. His object was for the benefit of those engaged in trade.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 rose, pursuant to notice, to propose that the House should adopt a new Standing Order, declaring that no bill for altering the regulations of any particular trade should be read a first time in that House until such bill had the sanction of the report of a select committee. He briefly set forth the advantages to be expected from adopting this proposition, and stated the chamber of commerce at Birmingham to have voted a petition praying for the adoption of such an arrangement. He then moved, "That no Bill regulating the conduct of any Trade, altering the Laws of Apprenticeship in relation to any particular business, affixing marks to designate the quality of any manufacture, prohibiting the manufacture of any species of commodity, or extending the term of any patent, shall be read a first time in this House, until a Select Committee shall have inquired into the expediency or inexpediency of the proposed regulations, and shall have reported to the House the result of such inquiries."Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 was glad to find such a measure introduced. It was not an uncommon thing to find bills passed in one session relating to trade?, without consulting those parties most interested, which it was found necessary to repeal in the next, in consequence of representations of their bad effects. If this measure was calculated to injure trade, how came it to have been prayed for by the chamber of commerce of Birmingham?Mr. Littleton
 seconded the motion. He thought it was of the utmost importance that this subject should be investigated by a committee of that House. There were many branches of trade, which were exclusively confined to this country; for instance, the wrought iron, the Hardware and the potteries. Now, it would be of infinite advantage to the starving manufacturers, if the duties on those branches of our trade were removed in our intercourse with Ireland.Mr. Littleton
 opposed the committee, on the ground of there not being time for the inquiry in the present session.General Hart
 rose to reply; when the Speaker observed, that the question before the House was, whether the numbers should stand as in the original clause, to which the noble lord had moved an amendment, which had been since followed by another. The noble lord could therefore only be heard in explanation. The question being put, "That 92,224 stand part of the question," the House divided: Ayes 101. Noes 46. The bill was then passed.Lord Nugent
1073 wished to preface the observations he had to make in bringing forward the motion of which he had given notice, and which had for its object a diminution in the proposed amount of our military
1073Lord Nugent
107610751074 assured the House that it was far from his intention to detain them long in setting forth the grounds upon which he thought it his duty to submit his present proposition. He feared, indeed, that the motives by which he was actuated, and the principles to which he must of necessity refer, would make but a slight impression on the House. His proposition would certainly apply itself at once to the principle of the army estimates, and have no connexion with any of their details. The time and patience of the House would be wasted, if he were to indulge in declamation at the cool unhesitating manner in which so great a military establishment had been proposed at a moment of profound peace. He trusted that the jealousy manifested on former occasions by parliament, with reference to a standing army, had not gone entirely out of fashion. It would be melancholy, indeed, if such a change had taken place in the feelings and dispositions of the country. A. much better defence, he felt assured, might be relied on for our domestic peace than an immense regular army. Such a force, viewed with regard to the avowed purposes of its application, seemed, to his mind, worse than useless. Were they to be told by the ministers of the Crown that after five years of peace, and after all the provisions made with regard to the militia, and the additions made to the yeomanry, that any cause of dismay or alarm could justify the maintenance of so enormous an establishment? Such a measure was, in appearance at least, a large stride towards a military government. He looked in vain to any thing which had fallen from the noble secretary at war for an argument to justify this proceeding. All that the noble lord had urged was the notoriety of its necessity. For his own part, he meant not to impute any motives of a personal kind; but he must observe, that a plea of this nature was easily
107610751074Lord Nugent
10781077 said, he could not, without considerable alarm, view the efforts that were making to increase the military force of the country, and he deeply regretted the diminution of that bulwark of their strength—the naval force—which had been so often and so successfully employed in asserting the rights of Great-Britain. It was his most anxious desire to place the military force within the smallest possible compass. The establishment of 1792 had been referred to by former committees of that House as sufficiently large for the service of the country in times of perfect peace; and, for his own part, he could not see anything in the situation of the country at present that called on them to extend the military force beyond what it was in 1792. It was true that discontent existed in the country—it was true that alarming scenes had been exhibited—ie was most true, that meetings had been assembled, whether legally or illegally he would not determine, but which, in the minds of the people, were undoubtedly considered legal. It was equally true that those who were thus assembled had been forcibly dispersed; but he demanded of the House whether these combined circumstances rendered this extraordinary establishment necessary? He believed, notwithstanding all that was re-
10781077Mr. Bright
1053 said, that the object of his motion was not substantially to interfere with the facilities of examining specifications, but to Introduce such a modification of them as would limit the privilege of examination to such persons as were
1053Mr. Wrottesley
 moved for leave to bring in>g bill to prevent the inconvenience arising from the too great facility of procuring copies of the specifications of Patents, enrolled by grantees of letters patent, for the sole and exclusive vending of manufactures within this realm.Mr. Wrottesley
 opposed the motion. The present moment was, he observed, a most unfavourable one for the introduction of such a measure—a moment when petitions were coming in from all quarters, complaining of distress, and praying for relief from the operation of certain restrictions affecting trade. If the House should entertain the motion, he hoped it would not be allowed to have a retrospective effect. But he looked upon the appointment of a committee for the introduction of a bill regulating trade, in some instances as vexatious, and causing unnecessary delay. If, therefore, the House would go with him, he would move the previous question.Mr. Mansfield
 observed, that the motion was contrary to all sound and liberal views of commercial policy, and that instead of concealing the specifications, of patents, every possible facility ought the to given to render them public. The legislature ought never to lend it self to any measure which was calculated to prevent the diffusion of knowledge.Mr. Hume
1072 said, that there were at least thirty or forty articles on which the duties might be modified. The intercourse between Ireland and England, would only be of real benefit to the latter country, when that intercourse should be free. It was from this freedom of intercourse established between England and Scotland that the latter had benefitted so materially since the union. As to the failures of the banks in Ireland, they really had
1072Mr. Hume
 though he would offer no observation upon the merits of the proposed order, yet, considering that a standing order was a most important subject, he did not wish to see it passed without due consideration.Mr. Creevey,
 felt it his duty to call the attention of ministers and of the House to a calamity, greater, perhaps, than had ever fallen on any country before. Of fourteen banks in the South of Ireland, no fewer than eleven had stopped payment. The consequences were dreadful to contemplate, as the people were now absolutely reduced to a state of starvation. The food which the country people had been in the habit of bringing into the towns was now quite withdrawn. No supplies could therefore be obtained; for as no circulating medium remained, the country people knew that if they brought any food into the towns it must be seized upon by the populace without payment, as no means of paying were in their possession. He begged in the strongest manner to call on the chancellor of the exchequer, as he valued the very existence of a considerable portion of the population of Ireland, to give his attention to this subject, in the hope that he might elicit something from him of a consolatory nature, which might, in this most pressing emergency, be forwarded to Ireland by that day's post. He hoped he should hear from the right hon. gentleman not only that government were disposed to do something, but that measures had already been adopted to mitigate the evil.Colonel Bagwell
 continued. He would not say that the army was maintained for the express purpose of subjugating the liberties of the country, but he would say what was perhaps as offensive that it had been kept up partly from habit. We had gradually been accustomed to 7 000, 18,000, 35,000, and 70,000 men. We had become accustomed to millions in finance, and thousands of men in the army. The taxes ground down every class in this country, and the greatest discontent arose from that cause. The interest of the national debt was the great enemy that caused distress and disaffection; that increased sedition, if not blasphemy in the country. The influence it gave to ministers was one reason for so large a standing army.Mr. Smith
 said, that the reduction of the army, like the question of reform, was one of those points, the advantage of which was always admitted, though the time for adopting it never arrived. He did not like to hear the interests of the army spoken of in that House; for in that House they could not be said to have any interests as separated from the country at large. With respect to Ireland, it struck him, that no greater censure could be pronounced upon the system of government than what was implied in the necessity of a large military force to prevent insurrection and rebellion. Ireland had none of the marks of a well governed country, whose characteristics were a happy and a contented people. Unless different measures were adopted, they could govern that country only by the musket and the bayonet, and would find it a source of weakness instead of strength. He would not go the length of his hon. friend and vote for the abolition of the whole army. Our garrisons abroad must be maintained.Mr. W. Smith
1063 observed, that the great public services which had been rendered both to Ireland and to Great Britain by the eminent and lamented individual in question, had been well described by his hon. and learned friend. Having witnessed all the exertions of Mr. Grattan's political life, after his introduction into this country, he begged to be allowed to say a single word on the subject. He had never known a man whose patriotism and love for the constitution of his country seemed so completely to extinguish all private interests, and to induce him to look invariably and exclusively to the public good. His mind was of a character which enabled him completely to triumph over party feeling on all, questions of great public importances—He could not abstain from remarking,
1063Mr. Wilberforce
 was sure the hon. member would thank him for giving him an opportunity of explaining that which he was convinced was not offensively meant, though it was most offensive to the House, and might be deemed so by one of its members.The Speaker
 was satisfied that he needed only appeal to the hon. gentleman whether his observations in the first place had any thing to do with the subject before the House, and whether, in the second, they were consistent with order?The Speaker
109310921091109010891088108710861085—In better times than the present this great national question would not be left to the feeble defence which I can pretend to afford to it. In the absence, however, of abler advocates, and representing, as I have the honour to do, a large portion of this enlightened metropolis, I shall offer a few arguments in behalf of that which I presume to consider the rights and liberties of my country, now menaced by the proposition of the noble secretary at war. The noble lord has told us, that the speech by which the noble mover of the reduction of the estimate introduced his amendment, was fit only for the hustings of Covent-garden or of Palace-yard. The noble lord, although living not far from these scenes, seems not to he aware that—thanks to the exertions of his colleague's,—the people are shut out from one of those arenas for discussion, and that the same salutary interference has left the other open only at stated times and seasons. The noble secretary has also told us, that the speech of the noble mover was calculated only for reformers—to this I will say, that
109310921091109010891088108710861085Mr. Speaker;
1069l.1068l.1067l. said he rose to move for the appointment of a select committee, to inquire into the duties payable by the Act of Union, of ten per cent on British manufactures imported into Ireland, and on Irish manufactures imported into England. Such a committee was necessary, in consequence of the chancellor of the exchequer having brought in a bill to continue these duties for twenty years longer than the time prescribed by the Act of Union. This bill would seriously affect the interests of the British manufacturers, because it would continue a heavy tax upon their goods, and thereby diminish the demand for them in Ireland. It would also, by continuing this tax, injure the Irish consumers. The cause of distress in the manufacturing districts being a want of market, it was obvious, that this measure would be a great evil, by its effect in raising prices to the Irish consumer, and thus limiting the quantity he could otherwise purchase. If the import of English manufactures into Ireland was quite free, the use of them would be greatly extended; at present every one in Ireland paid twenty or thirty percent more for every article of manufacture than he would pay if there was no duty upon it; and 200,0001069l.1068l.1067l.Sir H. Parnell
 supported the motion.Mr. W. Parnell
 briefly replied. He said, that as a great difference of opinion existed, he should feel it to be his duty to take the sense of the House. He felt persuaded that the right hon. gentleman himself was disposed to make some alteration. He was convinced, that if a committee was appointed, they would, in eight or ten days, be enabled to make a' report, which might lead to a beneficial measure.Sir H. Parnell
1052 called the attention of the House to the distressing situation in which Irish paupers were placed by the practice of removing them from this country to any part of the, Irish coast. He proceeded to suggest a plan, by which he thought the evils to which those unfortunate persons were, exposed might be in a great degree remedied. He wished specific places to be named to which they were to be sent—notice to be given of their coming, and arrangements made for their reception when they arrived at the place of their destina-
1052Mr. Parnell
"A purer spirit, or more welcome shade.""Nor e'er was to the bowers of bliss convey'd,"Since their foundation came a nobler guest;"Ne'er to those chambers where the mighty rest,106010591058105710561055 rose to move, that the Speaker should issue his writ for the election of a citizen to serve in parliament for the city of Dublin, in room of the right hon. Henry Grattan, deceased. In the absence of his right hon. friend, the member for Waterford, who from some circumstances, found it impossible to attend, he had been requested to address a few words to the Chair on this most melancholy occasion. He could assure the House, that in acceding to the request which had been made to him, he felt the deepest sense of his own inability to do justice to that immortal name which must connect itself with all that he had to say, and he could with equal truth assure them, that by acceding to it on this occasion he by no means evinced a partiality for such proceedings in general. Far from approving of such a course being pursued in cases of an ordinary description, he was ready to admit that if the practice were extended beyond the very narrow limits within which it had been of late years con6ned—if friendship, or any other inadequate cause, should make such addresses degenerate into matters of course, he should most sincerely deplore the departure from our recent custom, and heartily wish to return to the modest silence of our forefathers. Indeed studied panegyric on the dead was not consistent with the general character and simple habits of Englishmen; it was a practice rather suited to an enslaved people than to a land of freemen, for those who were debarred from the manly exercises open to the natives of this country, and restrained to a few subjects might be expcted, in the absence of other themes on which they might dilate, to exhaust themselves in laboured orations and in worthless praise; Hitherto, in modern times, the House had preserved a very becoming temperament on these subjects, and such tributes had been limited to cases of recent death, where warm respect, admiration, and af-
"A purer spirit, or more welcome shade.""Nor e'er was to the bowers of bliss convey'd,"Since their foundation came a nobler guest;"Ne'er to those chambers where the mighty rest,106010591058105710561055Sir James Mackintosh
 hoped the chancellor of the exchequer would not accede to the motion. He knew it would be productive of considerable alarm and discontent in that part of the country with which he was connected. At a period like the present, when the public distresses of Ireland were so great from recent failures, it was of the utmost importance to avoid all subject of discontent or alarm.Sir N. Colthurst
1084 said, he was as great an enemy to a military despotism as the noble lord, but he thought it was the duty of government to protect the well-affected. When he considered the state of the public mind during the last autumn, and recollected the blasphemous and seditious publications that were disseminated, he could not but congratulate the country on the escape it had had. The hon. member then proceeded to describe the disaffected state of the population in the west of Scotland, where he had been employed on the staff. It was, he observed, almost impossible to describe the disaffection which existed in Glasgow and its vicinity, where the population amounted to 300,000 souls. They had forgotten their duty to their magistrates, to their ministers, and even to their God. In that part of the country there were not fewer than 25,000 men prepared in every respect, but that they wanted arms, to resist the constitutional authorities of the country; while there had been but two infantry regiments and one regiment of cavalry to oppose them. If the object which so many mischievous men had in view had been carried into effect, who could contemplate without horror the events that would have taken place? The yeomanry had undoubtedly come forward, and in the handsomest manner; but he could not help deprecating the employment of yeomanry corps to put down popular commotions. The unfortunate events at Greenock, he believed, would not have taken place if regular forces had been employed. In conjunction with regular forces yeomanry corps were good and useful; but when employed against
1084Sir H. Vivian
 thought the hon. baronet had mistaken the opinions of the manufacturers in Ireland, at least sin Dublin, if he supposed that they did not feel great anxiety that the protecting duties should be continued. At the same time, he admitted that there were some articles on which the duties ought to be discontinued; but he was of opinion that they should be discontinued only according to the scale of gradual reduction which had' been proposed by his right hon. friend.Mr. Shaw
1070 supported the motion. He thought it a sure proof that the chancellor of the exchequer had introduced this measure in a careless manner, when it ap-
1070Lord Althorp
 thought that the proposed order would be a good one; but he agreed in the suggestion of sending it for consideration to a committee.Lord Althorp
 moved the third reading of the Mutiny bill.Lord Palmerston
1082108110801079 said, the noble lord, in the course of his speech, had stated, that the motion he was about to propose, and some of the sentiments he was about to profess, would not, he feared, coincide with the feelings of many individuals in that House. After having heard the motion of the noble lord, and the accusations he had advanced against gentlemen on the ministerial side of the House, he believed it would be found that there were indeed very few individuals within those walls who would be disposed to concur with the noble lord in the view he had taken of the subject. The noble lord's argument might be divided into two parts; the one relating to the military establishment, setting aside the 11,000 veterans; the other respecting the measure adopted in calling them out. The noble lord said, that ministers had adduced no reason to prove why, in the present instance, an establishment founded on that of 1792 would not be sufficient; and he further observed, that a committee, in the year 1817, which certainly was one of commotion, had pointed out the establishment of 1792 as that which ought to be
1082108110801079Lord Palmerston
 thought this question would be best answered by the resolution itself, which he therefore moved should be then read.Lord Palmerston
 brought in a bill "to enable the East India Company to raise and maintain a Corps of Volunteer Infantry," and moved, that it be read a first time.Lord Binning
 said, he feared it was not in his power, in that stage of the bill to give a full and satisfactory reason for the measure. The East India company considered it proper to have such a corps in that part of the town, and it was necessary to apply to parliament to enable them to carry that measure into effect.Lord Binning
 denied that the affairs of the company were in the state described by the hon. gentleman.Lord Binning
 did not see any disturbances existing to justify the raising of 4 or 500 men as volunteers in the heart of the metropolis. Without good grounds being offered to justify them, he would resist the measure.Mr. Bernal
 could not help remarking, that the other night, when some allusion had been made to this subject, a gallant officer opposite had strongly called for the raising of volunteer corps in England, and his observations had been loudly cheered; yet the hon. gentleman now contended that they were quite unnecessary.Lord Binning
 did conceive, certainly, that the raising of such corps was the most constitutional increase which could be made to our military establishment, because it was an increase emanating from the people themselves; but, then, he contemplated that the standing army was to be reduced in proportion.Colonel Davies
1104 rose for the
1104Lord Castlereagh
l.1106l.l. laid upon the table a variety of papers and documents relative to the state of commercial distress in Ireland. The right hon. gentleman observed, that in submitting, on a future occasion, a specific motion connected with these papers, he should feel it his duty to propose a measure of relief similar to those which had been adopted in the year 1793 and 1811 by parliament. In answer to a question which had been put to him the other night by an hon. member, he had replied, that it was not proposed by his majesty's government to lay before the House any proposition of this kind; and by any other answer he felt very sure that he should at the time have exceeded the intentions of government. But his majesty's ministers having since received, from a variety of quarters, very many and very urgent applications for relief, they felt it their duty no longer to permit the matter to remain in this state, nor by their silence to warrant an apprehension that the distresses of any part of the United Kingdom were unheeded by them. He would here briefly notice what were the intentions of government in laying this subject before the House, and, in particular, what proposition it meant to offer, with reference to those measures which the lord lieutenant of Ireland, acting upon his responsibility, and expecting the sanction of government, had adopted, in consideration of the great public distress which recent events had occasioned in Ireland. He would state what the principal of those measures were. The House would be aware, that in 1817 a bill was enacted for the application of a particular sum of money in the execution of public works in Ireland. A very considerable part of that sum remained unappropriated, to the extent of about 100,000l.1106l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1108l.l.l.l.l.l.1107 admitted that the grant alluded to in Mr. Gregory's letter was made not for the purpose of relieving commercial distress, but of employing a certain sum upon the erection of public works. The House would feel that it was the duty of the lord lieutenant, and of the government here, to bring this subject as early as possible under the notice of parliament. The application of the money by the lord-lieutenant was certainly in some degree irregular, and the first object to which he should have to call the attention of the committee would be, the obtaining of a vote extending its sanction to the purposes to which the money had been so applied. Since the date of the petition, the House could not be ignorant that the most distressing and calamitous events had befallen Ireland; they could not be ignorant of the great depression under which commerce, and indeed every individual, laboured. He thought that they would immediately see the analogy between the present case and the measure brought in by Mr. Pitt in 1793: that was intended at the time to preserve the stability and circulation of the country banks. Under very peculiar circumstances Mr. Pitt, for the first time, made a similar application, by calling on
1108l.l.l.l.l.l.1107The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 felt assured that the House would hear what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman with great regret. He had taken for his precedent what Mr. Pitt had thought fit to do in 1793. To the best of his recollection, Mr. Pitt, perceiving that the country bankers were in danger of stopping, and that the circulating medium in consequence would be greatly diminished, had determined to afford them assistance; but the right hon. gentleman seemed to have forgotten that that assistance had been given in consequence of the recent commencement of a war, and of the occurrence of other events which country bankers could not have anticipated. But in the present case the chancellor of the exchequer had not thought fit to state any of the circumstances that had led to the failures in question, and he (Dr. L.) protested against such a grant merely upon the grounds of commercial distress. He was somewhat surprised that nothing had been said by the chancellor of the exchequer regarding the distresses prevailing in the south-west of Scotland. It was clear that, in Ireland, the houses that had failed had over traded; they had entered into improper speculations, and when the day of reckoning arrived, they were not prepared to meet the demands upon them The consequence of this grant would therefore be, that mercantile and banking concerns generally would be induced to follow the example of the Irish houses, in the confidence that, if they failed, government would interfere in their behalf. He should, however, consent, though reluctantly, to the vote, because he was aware, that such was the state of distress in Ireland, particularly among the lower orders, that the most dreadful results might occur, if resort were not had to some measure of this description.Dr. Lushington
 congratuled his native country on the strong sympathy and participation which was felt in the House with reference to the unhappy distress that prevailed in it. He had always been persuaded that such was the partial feeling of parliament for Ireland. If such a proposition had been made with regard; to any part of England, it would have been viewed with considerable jealousy; but the resolution which been that night moved by his right hon. friend, had been received but with one solicitude by all sides and all parties—namely ah anxiety to do all that it was possible to do for Ireland, under her present circumstances of pressure He trusted that the measure, like other preceding measures of a similar description, would have a great practical operation although he allowed, with his right hon. friend behind him that the, moral effect of it would be very considerable. He was persuaded that every hon. member who, like himself, was a native of the sister country, must feel great gratitude to parliament for their prompt acquiescence in his right hon. friend's proposition.Lord Castlereagh
 concurred with the noble; lord in what he had said regarding paper currency, and he was happy to add, that that system was now about to terminate. The object was not to relieve the merchants and hankers, but the suffering punctuation; as far as it was practicable; and if it were necessary that a communication should be made to the lord-lieutenant of Ireland before the present vote was carried into a law, he thought that much of the benefit would be destroyed by the delay.Mr. Grenfell
 observed, that the vote he had proposed was intended for the relief of the people of Ireland generally from the distress occasioned by recent failures, from whatever cause those failures might have arisen. With regard to delay, he agreed that it would be better to avoid it, and that the bill to be founded on the bill should be passed through all its stages without hesitation.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1110 said, that the object of the grant was, to stop the progress of the evil and not to encourage speculation. The necessity of an immediate remedy was obvious from the fact that eight banks had failed in the south-west of Ireland; and if the failures reached Dublin, it was probable that they would also extend north-ward, and materially injure the linen I trade, now conducted through the medium of paper, but formerly depending upon gold alone. Only yesterday, advice was I received of the stoppage of one Dublin bank connected with the north of Ireland; and the consequence had been a heavy run upon the most firmly established1 banks of that city. They had been able
1110Mr. Foster
l. after what had been so ably and feelingly stated on this subject, did not consider it necessary to trouble the committee with many words upon it. The object of the proposition was not to relieve the innocent and unfortunate sufferers. If such a measure could be accomplished, he was sure the House would do it by acclamation. But that was impossible; and all that could be done was, by circuitous means, to endeavour to obviate the extension of the evil. It was impossible for him, however, to advert to the distresses which so unhappily prevailed in the South of Ireland, without at the same time adverting to the temper and patience with which those distresses had been borne. Destitute as the inferior classes of the population were of the means of obtaining either employment or food, there was nevertheless no example among them (except in one trifling instance) of any resort to improper modes of relief. He wished further to say, that although he entirely agreed with his right hon. friend in the expediency of proceeding with the utmost dispatch in affording ail the relief that could be afforded, the purpose of the grant had been, to a certain extent, anticipated by the lord lieutenant, who had, on his own responsibility, issued 100,000l.Mr. C. Grant,
1111 expressed the high satisfaction which lie felt at the proposition; and concurred with his right hon. friend near him in pressing on the House the immense importance of accelerating its execution, as he considered it to be pregnant with as much moral as practical advantage. When the people of Ireland saw that government and parliament had taken up the business as they had done, he did hope that a great deal of the; immediate pressure would be diminished. If the learned doctor who had given a reluctant consent to the measure knew but a tenth part of the distresses that existed, and of the way in which they were submitted to, he would not have qualified his concurrence in the proposition as he had done. He begged leave to suggest to his right hon. friend the consideration, whe-
1111Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 adverting to what had just fallen from his right hon. friend, said he had been authorized by his majesty's government to write to the lord lieutenant of Ireland, which he had that night done, to assure him that he might take such measures as were calculated to meet the evil, in the full confidence that they would receive the sanction of parliament;Mr. C. Grant,
1114l.l.1113 deemed it right to call the attention of the committee to the amount of this vote, and the circumstances attending By the new schedule presented
1114l.l.1113Mr. Bennet
l.l.l.l., supported the opinion of Mr. Bennet. He observed that in 1818 the whole amount of the barrack expenditure was 99,000l.l.l.l.,Colonel Davies
1116 said, he could assure the committee that the increase of the barrack expenditure was no voluntary act of his majesty's govern-
1116The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 in explanation, said, that the hon., and learned member had misunderstood him. What he said was, and lie did not hesitate again to avow it, that such was the state of some of the population in the metropolis and in several oilier districts, that it became necessary, in order to protect the property of the industrious well-meaning, to establish barracks and keep troops in those disturbed districts.The Chancellor of the Exchequer,
 said, that in mentioning temporary barracks, he did not allude to old stores or other buildings. If it were found necessary to erect barracks for a time, they might be built of wood. This would be a sufficiently strong, and a much cheaper mode of erecting barracks, than by erecting them of stone.Colonel Davies
l.l.1120 said, he had understood the right hon. gentleman in the same way as his hon. and learned friend, and that he had actually put the merits of this question upon the general and notorious disaffection of the people. It was evidently the system of the government in this country that had created the discontent and dissatisfaction which the right hon. gentleman acknowledged to exist, and which he stated as the groundwork that rendered the erection of barracks necessary. He conceived that ministers did not look into their own measures with a scrutinizing eye. If they did, they would there trace the causes of that alienation of public feeling, and of that general discontent, of which they complained. The present was a very large question, and, if pursued, would lead them into a debate on the general state of the country. He had no hesitation in saying, that if, when the repre-
l.l.1120Mr. Calcraft
 hoped the hon. gentleman would forgive him if he said that, when members of the House of Commons were about to vote the money of the people, they had a right to make such observations as they might think fit. They were sent to the House for that purpose. They were called on to canvass every proposition brought before them. When money was demanded, it was their duty to call on the chancellor of the exchequer to state his reasons for requiring it, and in return, to acquaint him with their views on the subject. The hon. gentleman certainly was not so much in the habit of objecting to votes of money as individuals on his side of the House were; but that circumstance, however they might regret it, would not render them less vigilant. With respect to a question, as to the difference of expense for building the barracks at Leeds and at Glasgow, no answer had been returned to it; and, as a member of the House of Commons, he conceived that he had a right to have that circumstance explained.Mr. Calcraft
1126 said, he believed the House was ignorant of the manner in which this sum was incurred by the government of the country. He would state how those captures originated; they were made in consequence of the neglect and ignorance of the noble lord at the head of the Admiralty, and of his colleagues. He stated this openly, and he was prepared to prove it. He was prepared to show that the instructions sent out by the Admiralty were, from the beginning to the end, illegal. He was sure no hon. gentleman would for one moment sanction them, if they were brought under consideration. He was therefore to presume that those instructions had been sent out by the Admiralty without those persons at the head of that department knowing what they contained, or what would be the effect of them. He would appeal to one act of the noble lord opposite; if the noble lord would but recollect the circumstance, he had no doubt but that the noble lord would bear testimony to what he said. The instructions in question were sent out to the different cruisers from the Admiralty, and were, as they ought to have been, acted on by the commanders of those cruisers, for he would ever contend that it was the duty of the masters of cruisers, upon receiving instructions from the Admiralty, to obey them. Under those instructions vessels belonging to Spain and Portugal were captured—and captured, in violation of every principle of the law of nations. Though an advocate for the abolition of the slave trade, he must condemn, an act which went to overturn every principle of the law of nations observed in this country from the earliest ages down to the present day. Those illegal instructions were executed as soon as they were received; great alarm followed; a number of Portuguese vessels were brought into the different ports of the coasts of Africa, and condemned in the most unmerciful manner. But instructions subsequently issued by the noble lord opposite, revoking the instructions previously issued, and containing fresh orders, saying
1126Dr. Lushington
 said, that the expenses of the coronation would be brought under the consideration of the House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that they would be submitted to the House as soon as the privy council should determine the amount of the expense which they might consider likely to accompany the coronation.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that it certainly would.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that however the hon. gentleman might object to them, grants of this description were also recognized by parliament, were always accounted for, and were necessary under the circumstances of the country.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that many of the persons relieved were juvenile convicts, whose previous character or whose parentage made it desirable that they should not be sent to the hulks. Government having thrown this charge on this society, they were bound to take part of the burthen. The change made in the character of convicts sent thither was a proof of the judiciousness of this arrangement.Mr. Bennet
 said, the institution saved the country a very considerable sum; a number of young persons convicted of petty Grimes, and sentenced to slight punishments, were received into the establishment; but no funds could withstand the constant demands that were made upon it; many persons who were actually starving, though recommended by magistrates, were reluctantly turned from the doors of the institution. The progress of juvenile delinquency in the metropolis was very great; and as the Refuge could not receive all the objects that presented themselves, he would beg to suggest to ministers, that they ought to form some place under their own direction, where those persons might be received; for, if left loose upon society, it would be only to spread vice and crime.Dr. Lushington
1131 deprecated the tone of scorn in which the last speaker had expressed himself relative to this establishment. He should like to know what that hon. gentleman would wish to have done to the unfortunate individuals in that prison.—Were they to be left to starve? There was this difference between them and paupers in the poor-house—the pauper could leave his residence, but the convict could not leave his, being placed in it contrary to his own will. He was not for pampering the palate of a convict, but he was for allowing him that quantity of provisions which was requisite to his support. He was fully convinced of the truth of an observation of the immortal Howard,
1131Mr. Bennet
1134 objected to this grant, on the very grounds which the right hon. gentleman had stated in explanation of its amount. He objected to it because the money which this grant was to cover, had been expended in the prosecution of political opinions. Those who thought that the recent prosecutions had been instituted without reason—and he was one who presumed to entertain that opinion—were hound to oppose the grant; whereas, those who entertained a different opinion, in all probability would support it. By making grants to so large an amount for such purposes, they enabled the Crown to fee all the talent of the country—he meant all the legal talent—to oppose the people. Briefs had sometimes been delivered on the part of the Crown to all the leading counsel on a circuit, so that an unfortunate defendant was often deprived, by such means, of the aid of eminent counsel. They would be doing an improper thing, as the representatives of the people of England—if indeed that House were the representatives of the people ["Order, order,"]—should
1134Mr. Hobhouse
1135 said, that those who thought the late prosecutions necessary, would, no doubt, vote for the sum; but he was not responsible for the opinions expressed by gentlemen in the last parliament: he was not to be bound by what had been said by gentlemen on that side of the House on the occasion alluded to
1135Mr. Hobhouse
 observed, that the attorney and solicitor generals received fees upon Crown prosecutions, because they were responsible for such proceedings. But he felt that it was only in cases where such responsibility properly attached, and where they were actually consulted by government, that such fees should be given. He had known himself, of cases in which the attorney and solicitor generals had received fees without being at all concerned; in Doctors Commons for instance.Dr. Lushington
1109 saw no reason, in
1109Lord A. Hamilton
1118 said, that before his majesty's ministers had come to a determination to erect new barracks in the proposed districts, they had made every necessary inquiry on the subject, the result
1118Mr. Arbuthnot
l.l.,l. in reference to the mode in which the present estimates were framed, said they had been drawn up by a very accurate and intelligent individual, with whose merits, he believed, the hon. gentleman was well acquainted. Next year they would be presented separately. As to the cause of the, extension of these estimates, he agreed with the hon. gentleman, that was the consequence of the additional number of troops which it had been found necessary to embody. one item of increase, to the amount of 25,000l.l.,l.Mr. Arbuthnot,
 said, that the barrack estimate for Ireland was always brought forwardby the chief-secretary for that country. Of course the chief-secretary for Ireland would introduce the charge in the services for the year.Mr. Arbuthnot
1124 believed that the inha-
1124Mr. Arbuthnot
 said, with reference to the sum charged for repairs, that it was Impossible to have a large range of barracks, without incurring a great expense every year for keeping them in a proper state. If the barracks had been originally constructed in a solid manner, such sums would not be necessary for repairs; but many of them were formed of wood, and were very much decayed.Mr. Arbuthnot
l.l., said, the two sums of 2,000l.l.,Mr. Arbuthnot
l. attributed the increase in the law charges to the disturbed state of the nation, and the expenses which had been necessarily incurred in summoning and maintaining witnesses to support the various prosecutions which had arisen out of it. The solicitor of the treasury could not state what the exact amount of those expenses would be, but thought that a grant of 40,000l.Mr. Arbuthnot
l.l.l. in moving "that 25,000l.l.l.Mr. Arbuthnot,
l. stated, that in this, as in many other cases, the actual expense had been found to exceed the estimates which had been made of them. Here the excess amounted to 30,000l.Mr. Arbuthnot
l. said, that if the House thought fit, he would propose that the whole sum of 60,000l.Mr. Arbuthnot
1128 said, that the three secretaries of state were responsible on oath for the money expended. It was impossible for him to say how the money was to
1128Mr. Arbuthnot
 said, that grants for secret service money were always the largest in those years when general elections took place.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, that it was quite correct, that the attorney and solicitor-generals were in the habit of receiving fees upon Crown prosecutions, whether they attended or not. It was within his own knowledge that such was the case with regard to no less than 760 prosecutions in the court of exchequer in the course of the last year, upon each of which prosecutions the attorney and solicitor-generals received ten guineas each, although neither ever attended in any one instance. There was another statement also from the hon. member for Westminster, which was perfectly true. He meant, that upon a barrister s acquiring a high character for talent, the Crown was forward to retain him on its side by the grant of a silk gown; and it was notorious, that if a person prosecuted by the Crown desired the assistance of any king's counsel, he could not obtain that assistance without paying eight or ten guineas for a licence, or dispensation from the Crown, allowing such barrister to plead for him; so that here was a sum which the prosecuted person must pay in addition to the usual fee, in order to secure the support of an advocate so unnecessarily, and he would add, so improperly retained by the Crown in the first instance. This was a system which evidently called for some revision. With respect to the expense of Crown prosecutions within the last year, he was glad to understand that there was no objection on the other side to lay before the House some accounts illustrative of the items and character of that expense, and he hoped for the speedy production of those accounts.Mr. D. W. Harvey
l.l.,l. wished to know the reason why such an increase of expenditure had taken place in this item. Last year the law charges did not amount to more than 20,000l.l.,l.Mr. D. W. Harvey
 said, that the difficulty of obtaining admission into the Penitentiary was so great, that he himself, though a member of parliament, had not been able to inspect it.Mr. Ricardo
 thought that the difficulty of getting admittance into the prison ought to be taken into the consideration of the committee. If the officers were under the inspection of the public, they would be more likely to do their duty; and he could see no good reason why the prisons should not be subject to the inspection of the public.Mr. Ricardo
1132 thought he could satisfy the hon. gentleman that the difficulty of which he complained was nothing more than a due caution on the part of the governors of the Penitentiary. If the public at large were allowed free ingress into it, it was clear that accomplices of the prisoners might gain admission, and thus counteract all the good purposes which the establishment was intended to effect. Any person of respectable appearance might gain a ticket of admission by application to the secretary of state; but if all were admitted who desired to have admis-
1132Mr. Holford
 said, that at present there were 400 penitents within its walls; by that time next year he hoped there would be 700. The number of criminals convicted annually exceeded that number; and the Penitentiary was built to hold 1,000. They had sent out of it, within the last year, 30 individuals, who, he was confident, would never again have occasion to visit it.Mr. Holford
l.l.l.l. said, the Penitentiary had not and would not cost 600,000l.l.l.l.Mr. Holford
 had great satisfaction in informing the hon. gentleman, that the steam-engine had not been erected, and that all intention of erecting it had been abandoned. Instead of a steam engine, four machines had been purchased for the Penitentiary, two for the drawing of water, and two for the grinding of flour.Mr. Holford
 observed, that, now it was understood from the noble lord that there was to be no further adjournment after Monday, he would be the last person in the world to object to the proposition.Mr. Tierney
 entirely concurred with the noble lord in the expression of that great reluctance which must be felt on both sides of the House, that any longer delay should take place, unless a most absolute necessity were shown. At the same time, the delay which had occurred hitherto, he must declare; had been perfectly unavoidable. He took upon himself to say that neither party had been to blame; and that it was impossible to show a greater wish to expedite the business than had been manifested by both throughout the matter. He begged leave to add, his own opinion was, that beyond Monday next no circumstances, so far as human probability could anticipate them, would warrant any farther adjournment of the business. He would beg to say one word more: he entreated that the House would keep its mind entirely in the same stats that it was upon the first night this subject was broached; that it would consider that it stood now, and should stand upon Monday next, until the debate came on in precisely the same situation as before.Mr. Brougham
 said, he had stated no opinion of his own, originally, but had quoted an opinion, an extremely alarming one, of the chancellor of the exchequer. He had since heard his qualification, which was, that his was a partial and not a general statement. How far it was partial or general must be collected from the proposed erection of barracks all over the country.Mr. Abercromby
1119 observed, that be would not have said a single word on this occasion, were it not that he felt it necessary to state the reasons which induced blip to vote for the motion of his hon. friend. He did not mean to enter now into that part of the question, which from the statement of the chancellor of the exchequer, appeared to be of so alarming a nature, particularly to those who understood the principles of the constitution. It would be idle now to enter upon that part of the question. The right hon. member had taken credit for a reduction being made in the barrack department, while on the other hand it was shown that it had been progressively increasing daring the last three years. In a word, the statement of the chancellor of the exchequer was neither more nor less than this, that such was the state of the population of this country; such was the alienation of the people's feelings from the government of the country, that his majesty's
1119Mr. Abercromby
 wished to know how many penitents were at present confined in the Penitentiary.Mr. Lockhart
 said, he was afraid, if the bill of fare of the honest poor who had been driven into Lambeth workhouse, for instance, by the pressure of the times and of taxation, were compared with that of these persons who were imprisoned for their crimes, the comparison would be much to the advantage of the latter. These convicts had each a separate room, fared well, had a physician for their bodies, and a priest for their souls. He thought it a bad system that persons who were under punishment for crime, should be in a better situation than those who were suffering from misfortune.Mr. Lockhart
 said, he had no such feelings as had been imputed to him; but when he saw that with improved prisons and new charities, crimes were increasing, he felt that the country was losing its way on an amiable system, and that what was really wanted was a preventive police. He protested against any plan which should put criminals in a better situation than the unfortunate.Mr. Lockhart
 contended, that such charity, in fact, was an encouragement of crimes. The first offence should not be so lightly spoken of. A vigorous police would seize the offenders before they committed the crime, and while they were loitering and plotting, crimes.Mr. Lockhart
 observed, that all who had pleaded their own cause had been found guilty.Mr. Lockhart
 objected to this vote on the ground that parliamentary interference was dangerous. If a sum of money was to be granted to this institution, many other institutions in the metropolis, equally deserving of consideration, and with equally strong claims might and would ask for parliamentary assistance.Mr. Hume
 said, he did not want to, have grants for secret service money altogether done away; he only objected to the extent of the present grant.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l.l.l. said, that in the last year a sum of 80,000l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
1130 said, that a considerable discussion had taken place last year in the committee regarding the erection of a steam-engine in the Penitentiary for the purpose of easing the labour which the prisoners endured in drawing water and in grinding flour. The committee,
1130Mr. Hume
l.l.l.1133l. thought that this work, which had already cost so much money, ought to be completed; at the same time he could not help expressing his conviction that more than 60,000l.l.l.1133l.Mr. Hume
l. could not refrain from declaring that the subject was one on which he thought the people ought justly to feel great alarm. There were no less than 97 barracks in the country; all of them with regular establishments. It bad been lately said by ministers, that the additional troops were requisite to meet a temporary exigency; if so, why provide them with permanent accommodation? In Manchester, for instance, where there was already one barrack, another was erecting at an expense of 28,000l.Mr. Hume
l.l.l. wished for some explanation of the reason, why the estimate of the present year was nearly 100,000l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 said, that the preparations which were making for the coronation were but of a temporary nature: an unnecessary expense appeared to be incurring. Preparations intended for a mere temporary purpose were got up on a scale as expensive as if the different public situations for the coronation were to last, not for a day, but for thirty or forty years.Mr. Hume
1103 said, he was aware of what the object of the volunteer corps was, and perhaps the House would be surprised when they heard that object, and the way in which it was intended to provide for them. The object was to protect the company's
1103Mr. Hume
 adverting to former measures which had been adopted under similar circumstances in this country, observed, that they had been productive of the greatest advantage to the community. He hoped and believed that the effect of the proposition would, in a great degree, arrest the evil.Mr. Finlay,
 called upon the noble lord to state some reason for so extraordinary a proceeding in a time of peace, and when it had been resolved to disembody the corps of infantry. Until he had a satisfactory reason he must oppose such a bill.Mr. M. A. Taylor
1115 order to show the necessity of erecting the barracks which had, been recently built in the country, adverted to several places, and particularly Chester arid carlisle, where such precautions had been taken in consequence of those places having been reconnoitred by the radicals, and declared so vulnerable that they might be taken in half an hour. With reference especially to the latter city he had lately witnessed a scene there which sufficiently proved the necessity of military protection; and he was persuaded that the hon. and learned member for Winchelsea, who was present at that scene, if he were in the House, would corroborate his statement: he had seen a number of respectable individuals—ladies, and gentlemen—who were going to a public entertainment in Carlisle, grossly insulted by the populace, and told that it was the last time they should ride in their carriages, and the last time they should wear diamonds. He was confident that the tranquillity of the country required
1115Mr. R. Ward
1122l.l.l.l.s.l.l.l.l. said, he observed, in the present estimates, a sum of 14,0001122l.l.l.l.s.l.l.l.l.Mr. Creevey
 considered it necessary, before the House agreed to such a measure, to ascertain whether the company were competent to meet the charge. That House should have the India budget before them, and a full inquiry into their actual condition.Mr. Creevey
 asked, whether the amount of that expense would be submitted to parliament before the ceremony of the coronation shall take place?Mr. Creevey
 wished to know when those expenses would be brought under consideration.Mr. Creevey
1123 conceived gentlemen were wrong when they attributed all the evils of the country to the measures of
1123Mr. T. Wilson
 said, that if the hon. member would only look into the act he would see a special provision requiring that money granted for secret service should be duly accounted for under the authority of the secretary of state.Mr. Huskisson
1136 said, it had always been the custom to retain the attorney-general and the solicitor general in Crown prosecutions, and that, although they might not appear in person on the trial, they
1136Mr. Huskisson
l. understood the hon. gentleman to say, that he considered the prosecutions which had taken place during the last year to have been totally unnecessary. If the trials which had taken place at the Old Bailey for high-treason,—if the prosecutions for sedition at York, Lancaster, Chester, Warwick, Leicester, and other places, were indeed unnecessary, then of course the grants which had been voted to carry them on, were a waste of the public money. But if it was the opinion of the House, that the Crown should have power to institute prosecutions, it was necessary to supply it with money for that purpose. He could not help remarking, that objections to the amount of expense incurred by Crown prosecutions came with rather a bad grace from gentlemen on the opposite side of the house, when it was recollected that ministers had been so frequently reproved by them for making new laws, instead of prosecuting to a greater extent under the existing laws. The hon. gentleman said, that this grant was made to pay fees to all the legal talent at the bar, and to prevent defendants from having the benefit of eminent counsel. It certainly was the duty of king's counsel to give the Crown the benefit of their services; but the hon. gentleman was mistaken in supposing that all the expense was incurred by retaining-fees, for a considerable part of these charges was incurred by the attendance of witnesses, and the issuing of summonses. A part of the sum of 40,000l.Mr. Huskisson
l. said, that every shilling of the money granted for the same purpose for many years had been misapplied. It would appear from the accounts, not merely for the last years, but for many years before, that the money which had been expended did not in any degree promote the expected object. The slave trade was not, in consequence of that expenditure, prevented. Were he to speak out on this subject, he would use very severe epithets indeed. He considered the expenditure any thing but advantageous to the country. He had no hesitation in saying, that the transfer to the government of those forts from the African company was a salutary measure. In the first place, a sum of 1,200l.Mr. W. Smith
l.1121 expressed his regret that such large sums should be voted in such a manner. This was a question of confidence. It might be right to extend confidence to ministers, but here this
l.1121Mr. W. Smith
 argued, that whatever might be the culpability of overtrading on the part of individuals, which perhaps might have been the case, the innocent and industrious were not to be indiscriminately punished with the improvident. There was more than one precedent for such a proceeding: in the case where parliament voted a similar mode of relief to Ireland in 1793, not a shilling had ultimately been lost; but a balance had been made out in favour of the country.Sir G. Hill
l. wished to be informed whether the Irish barrack department was not under the control of the Treasury. If there was reason to complain of the expense of that establishment here, there was still greater reason to complain of it in Ireland. The expense, last year, in that country, was 123,000l.Sir H. Parnell
 supported the resolution.Mr. W. Parnell
 was convinced that those who looked upon this canal as a public work of no utility had taken a very mistaken view of the subject. He looked forward to it as a source of future revenue, and therefore thought that no objection ought to be made to the grant in question.Sir H. Parnell
l.l.1129 said, he understood
l.l.1129Sir Joseph Yorke
l.l.l.l. expressed some surprise at what had just fallen from the right hon. gentleman. When this subject was before the committee last year, they had been told that not more than 75,000l.l.l.l.Lord Althorp
 said, that be felt it to be his duty to apprize the House, that his majesty, feeling that every effort should be made to prevent the necessity of proceeding farther with the delicate question which had recently been brought under their notice, had consented that it should be considered elsewhere. In consequence of the course adopted having failed to produce the desired effect, he was authorized by his majesty to present certain papers, by which the whole of the proceeding would be communicated to parliament. He felt great pain in stating that the course proposed and adopted had not led to any satisfactory arrangement on the subject. From the great importance and the extreme delicacy of the question, the discussion of which had been repeatedly deferred, he felt that it would be very improper on his part, and exceedingly unfair towards the House, to press the consideration of the subject until gentlemen possessed the most authentic information connected with it. By that means the House would be relieved from the painful situation in which it at present stood, and would be enabled to judge of the efforts that had been made to arrange this unfortunate business. The papers were now in the progress of being printed, and would be given out to gentlemen early to-morrow. He therefore felt it to be his duty to move that the House should adjourn over, till Wednesday, the consideration of this question. It was necessary, before they proceeded to the farther consideration of the king's message, that all the circumstances of the case should be laid before them; that they should be enabled, at once, to view it in all its bearings, before they determined how they were to dispose of a question surrounded by so many difficulties. His lordship then moved, "that the papers do lie on the table."Lord Castlereagh
l.l. observed, that the hon. member had taken the two millions of francs, which was the French contribution, as pounds. In allusion to what had fallen from Mr. Baring, he admitted the great importance of that subject, and could only plead as an excuse for having omitted it, the necessary complication of so many points as it had been his duty to refer to. In the course of last year the deficiency on the consolidated fund had amounted to 3,000,0002. The deficiency, however, had arisen before the new taxes became productive, and also included the charge of two loans—those of the years 1818 and 1819. The new taxes covered that charge, and left a surplus of 1,800,000l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished for some farther explanation as to the expected amount of the sinking fund.Mr. Grenfell
l.l.l. professed his readiness to lay before the committee every particular of the arrangements which he had in view, and upon which he framed his calculations. It was true, as the hon. member seemed to think, that it was his intention to cancel stock to the amount of this proportion of unfunded debt. This proceeding referred to an act of 1813, which provided for making stock in the hands of the commissioners applicable to the service of the year, and under which a plan was devised for accumulating stock to the amount of 100,000,000l.l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1170 contended, that the plan of the right hon. gentleman was still calculated to diminish rather than cause any real excess of the revenue over the expenditure. With reference to the consolidated fund, he repeated what he had said on a recent occasion, that it was a most unseemly and odious blot on the character of the government, to allow of a constant deficiency in that fund of between seven and eight millions; and he strongly urged the expediency either by a loan, by the issue of exchequer bills, or by some other
1170Mr. Grenfell
*1168l.l.1167l.,l.l.l.,1166l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.,l.l.1165l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.,l.l.l.1164l.l.,l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.1163l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.;1162l.,l. rose. He stated, that feeling how difficult it was under the circumstances in which the House was then situated, for him to obtain that attention without which a financial discussion could not be intelligible or satisfactory, he should in the shortest, as well as the clearest, manner in his power state those particulars which it was his more immediate duty to bring under the consideration of parliament on that day, without attempting to enter into the discussion of general topics, which might he introduced with equal propriety on other occasions.*1168l.l.1167l.,l.l.l.,1166l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.,l.l.1165l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.,l.l.l.1164l.l.,l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.1163l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.;1162l.,l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
** did not intend to examine any part of the right hon. gentleman's statement, but rose chiefly to express some degree of surprise that no information had been communicated with regard to the consolidated fund.
**Mr. Baring
1176l.l.l.l.l.,l.,l.l.l.;1175l.l.l.l. could not but remark the great difference that existed between the present propositions of the right hon. gentleman and those which he had made last year. Last year he came down to that House, and said, that during the preceding year, he had been acting upon temporary expedients, but that he was then beginning to act upon a permanent plan, whose operation would be to make a sinking fund of 5,000,0001176l.l.l.l.l.,l.,l.l.l.;1175l.l.l.l.Mr. Maberly
 admitted, that the public had not yet made all those sacrifices, which, unfortunately, were necessary to the national security; but he felt convinced that they would not shrink from any sacrifices, when convinced of their necessity, and that every possible measure of retrenchment had been resorted to by government. Whether these contributions were made in the shape of a property-tax, or in any other shape, was a matter of no consequence. With respect to the present situation of the country, he felt the importance of an efficacious and productive sinking-fund; and he hoped that the produce of that fund would this year be considerable. There had been in the course of the last year a reduction of the public debt, although that reduction had not been so large as could be wished.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.,l.l.1178l.l.l.l.l.l.1177 in considering the state of the consolidated fund, deprecated those measures which went to relieve a present inconvenience by the assistance of a loan. If the chancellor of the exchequer adopted the counsel which had been given him by several gentlemen, the effect would be to pay 5 per cent for the loan of that which the Bank now furnished, partly at a very low rate of interest, and partly without any interest at all. According to an arrangement which
l.l.,l.l.1178l.l.l.l.l.l.1177Mr. Alderman Heygate,
l. Yorke thought the buildings already finished were quite sufficient for the purpose of experiment. This grant was for a new building. He thought it very wrong on the part of government to embark in such expensive undertakings, for the purpose of indulging any member in a favourite object of speculation. The expense of printing for both Houses scarcely amounted to less than 100,000l.Sir Joseph
 allowed that they were a meritorious body of men. To comply with their demands would, however, be establishing a very inconvenient precedent. They were in the same situation as many others were placed in by the chances of war.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 regretted the view taken of this subject by the chancellor of the exchequer. He could hot allow that the case of these claimants was similar to that of any others. Their claims stood on the faith of parliament and were quite distinct from any others.Mr. Courtenay
l.l.l.l.l.:1174l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1173†l.l.,l.l.l.l.,l.l.l. said, he could not clearly understand the alleged benefit which the money-market was to receive from the right hon. gentleman's arrangement. It was certainly a subject of lamentation that, after five years of peace, we should still find our expenses increasing. According to the right hon. gentleman we had had effectually a sinking fund of but 1,000,000l.l.l.l.l.:1174l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1173†l.l.,l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.Mr. Ricardo
 justified it, and referred to the authority of Howard.Mr. Holford
 observed, that it was his intention to have asked a question of the noble secretary of War had he been in his place. As that noble lord was absent, he should beg to ask his majesty's judge advocate the same question. He had learned that the late disturbance amongst a portion of the guards was attributed to the failure in issuing a certain rate of allowance which I was called riot money. Recollecting that a very considerable allowance, both of bounty and pay, was made to the soldiers, he could not recognise the propriety of any increase when they were called upon for duty in any service. Knowing also, that if they were ordered to march for foreign service no such increased rate of allowance was either given or expected, by what rule should it be granted when employed against their fellow-citizens? As a very important question stood for discussion that night, he should hot enlarge upon the point at present; but he wished to; hear from his majesty's judge advocate how long it had been the practice of the; government to issue the increased allowance of riot money.Lord Nugent
1161 in seconding the motion, begged to express to the House his concurrence in the view the noble lord had taken of this subject. He assured
1161Mr. Brougham,
l.l.l., observed, that the whole building would cost 600,000l.l.l.,Mr. Lockhart
1172l.1171 disagreed altogether from the hon. gentleman who had just spoken, as to the operation of the sinking fund; and maintained that it created a market for stock, and thereby prevented its depreciation. Adverting to the general question of our financial condition, he observed, that although he by no means charged it as matter of blame, yet that in fact almost all the expectations which had been last year held out by the chancellor of the exchequer had been disappointed. Our revenue had decreased, and our expenses augmented; and that, five years after the termination of war! He confessed that he had long entertained a melancholy foreboding of our actual condition. For the first time he had observed a suspicion and a distrust of the credit of this country. This was a new feature in our situation. In the midst of the late long and dangerous war, this country had been considered the asylum of property. Foreigners brought property of every description to England; but things were sot much changed, that many Englishmen were at the present moment investing a
1172l.1171Mr. John Smith
l. objected to the vote of 60,000l.Mr. John Smith
 said, he had voted for the original construction of the edifice; but the estimate then only amounted to the half of what had already been expended. He was in favour of the resolution, that the building might be completed; and, after its completion, government might gain experience.Mr. Hume
 wished to know whether there was any intention of allowing the claims of the American loyalists for the balance due to them. They were assured that the losses they had sustained would be fully made good to them. This, however, had not been yet done, though the subject had been frequently under consideration. He could look upon it as nothing less than a breach of the public faith.Mr. Hume
 inquired whether the French contribution of two millions was forthcoming.Mr. Hume
l.1179 agreed, that it would be highly desirable that the consolidated fund, instead of being in arrear, should afford a surplus over and above the service of the year; and wished that the state of the country would admit of the sinking fund being made more efficient. In answer to what had fallen from the hon.
l.1179Mr. Huskisson
 fully concurred in the sentiments of the hon. gentleman who spoke last. The only bar he could see in the way of the claimants, was their acceptance of a certain portion of what was fairly due to them. This, however, should form ho objection against allowing what, by every tie of justice, the country was bound to pay. Their claims were as fair, and as strong as any in the annals of war. They had not been allowed to lie dormant. They had been revived, at different intervals, during a period of thirty years. Three fourths of the claimants Were now dead; and many of them from broken hearts, in consequence of their disappointments. Lord Shelburne and Mr. Burke, though opposed to the American war, had allowed that there were no men better entitled to the consideration of the country.Mr. W. Smith
 said, he should be glad to give the noble lord a distinct answer, but he was only able at present to state, that such arrangements were made by the secretary at war.Mr. Beckett
11851184118311821181 said:—Mr. Speaker;—I hold in my hand a petition from the merchants and others engaged in trade with the British colonies in North America. In this petition they refer to another, which was lately presented to this House by certain merchants of the
11851184118311821181Mr. Marryat
1186 said, that in cases of negotiation, it was not necessary, as had been supposed by the hon. and learned gentleman for the government to take the opinion of the House at all. So in the case of the negotiations at Vienna, the House was not called upon to express any opinion previously. He, therefore, had nothing whatever to propose to the House on this subject. And his own sentiments would naturally be expressed when, upon moving the order of the day, some proposition should be brought forward with a view to render it unnecessary. The hon. member appeared to think that that pro-
1186Lord Castlereagh
nisi priusnisi prius in moving that the House do resolve itself into a committee on this bill, said, that he was aware some objections were felt to the measure, particularly by members of the bar. No one was more anxious than him self to gratify the wishes and interests of the profession, and if the inconvenience which might be supposed to follow the bill did not fall much below the good that would result from it, he would not have introduced it. At present the chief justice was not allowed to sit at nisi priusnisi priusThe Attorney General,
 wished merely to say, that the object of his right hon. friend was to ascertain at least the principle of the proposed motion. It seemed to be certain that that motion was to have the precedence to-morrow; and he did think, after what had occurred.:—after the papers had been printed and put into the hands of members—and after all the preparations they had made to come down to the adjourned debate of to-morrow that it would not have been too much for the hon. gentleman to have stated the substance at least of his motion. He did not ask him to mention the terms, but the object ought surely to be known.Lord A. Hamilton
1192 was of opinion, considering the state of the business in the King's-bench, that this bill was absolutely necessary. What was the situation of the court at the present moment? There were about 108 causes in arrear at Westminster, and 200 in the city of London, forming an aggregate of 308 remanent causes. Any measure that tended to decrease such an arrear ought to he supported by the House. The object of the bill W3s, to employ two judges in performing the duty, which was now effected by one—a plan from which great and evident advantage would be derived. The learned gentlemen apprehended that much inconvenience would be felt from the adoption of the proposed mode. Now, he did not mean to deny that some bill, more extensive in its nature, might perhaps be hereafter necessary; but that, he conceived, was not a good reason for objecting to the bill now before the House, if, for the time present, it wrought well. If the clause relative to the duration of the bill went to render it permanent, he certainly would oppose it; but, as the learned attorney-general was of opinion that the object would be practically obtained by making the measure temporary, and as ha had given notice that lie would, in the committee, move
1192Mr. Warren
1193—If he understood the learned gentleman correctly, his statement was, that, unless the salary of the judge was raked, he would not undertake the duty. Another objection to the bill was, that the client would often be deprived of the benefit of that counsel whom he wished to employ. In some cases this would certainly be very disad-
1193Mr. Warren
 seeing the secretary at war in his place, rose to repeat the question he had put yesterday on the important subject of the late disturbance among a portion of the military, which had been produced, as it seemed, by the withholding of certain allowances. In adverting to this subject, he felt sure that he need not vindicate himself from the imputation of endeavouring to apologize for the motives which gave rise to the alarming claim to which he had alluded, though it was one of the many fatal evils arising out of the system of military government. His question was, for what reasons, and out. of what funds, any pay or allowances had been given for special services of the military at home, when no such pay or allowances were given on service abroad?Lord Nugent,
1189 expressed his pleasure at the satisfactory explanation afforded by the noble secretary at war. He thought that the sum disbursed, however trifling, ought to come under the cognizance of parliament, though, for obvious reasons, he did not now wish to submit a motion upon the subject. He saw no sufficient reason for these rations, when the service at home was at all events lighter than that through which the men passed in the course of a foreign campaign. He ac-
1189Lord Nugent
 really thought, under the general language of the hon. gentleman's notice, that the best way would have been to have given no notice at all. If his hon. friend would now, however, state more particularly what his intentions were, and what course he intended to pursue, he would relieve himself and his hon. friends: from the degree of uncertainty in which they now stood relative to the member for Bramber's object.Mr. Tierney
 observed, that the hon. member expressed a wish to hear suggestions from the House, without giving them any opportunity of knowing upon what subject. He once more asked, not for himself but for the information of the House, what the nature of the hon. member's motion was? He could see no difficulty in stating generally what was intended to be done.Mr. Tierney
 was sure the House would do him the justice to believe that he fully concurred with the noble lord in thinking any course which should be adverse to the standing orders of the day was not an advisable one; but, as the noble lord seemed to feel that no defence was at all necessary to be set up, as regarded his majesty's government, so he (Mr. B.) felt it necessary, in their vindication to say, that he was perfectly satisfied that the conduct of her majesty's legal advisers, and the conduct of her majesty herself, stood also in need of no defence. He was perfectly willing to leave both to the candour of the House and the justice: of the country, and to abide by the award I of their impartial judgment.Mr. Brougham
 begged the House to remember that to-morrow was a motion day, and therefore that the one of which the hon. gentleman had just given notice would have the precedence. He submitted to the House, in the mean time, whether it would not be expedient, seeing how deeply the hon. gentleman was engaged, in common with every other hon. member, in the result of this motion, that that should take place with respect to it which took place in regard to every motion where the government was itself engaged, as in cases where negotiations had taken place. He would appeal to the noble lord whether or no, in such cases, it was not usual to take the sense of the House previously to bringing forward the motion. The reason upon which he stated thus much was, that he took it for granted that his hon. friend was about to propose, either directly or indirectly, some renewal of the present broken negotiation. At the same time, this presumption was only founded upon the very general wording of his hon. friend's notice: he believed, however, that in such a case, it was to be expected that the hon. gentleman would favour them with the intentions he entertained in giving notice of such a proposition.Mr. Brougham
1195nisi prius,s.s.nisi prius,in banco,1194 said, the learned gentleman who had just sat down had argued that, if the measure proposed were likely to remove, for the present, the inconvenience complained of, it ought to be adopted. He entirely denied the truth of this position. Ha did not consider that all inconveniences and misfortunes were good for nothing. They frequently had their benefits within themselves. For his own part, he could wish the inconveni-
1195nisi prius,s.s.nisi prius,in banco,1194Mr. Lockhart
 observed, that as the object and tendency of this measure was to facilitate the administration of justice, the generality of the gentlemen of the law would be decided advocates for its adoption, whether it interfered with1 their own individual interests or not. He contended that this was only a temporary relaxation of the duties of the chief justice. He did not consider that by its adoption an alteration would be made in the constitution of the court of exchequer.Mr. Nolan
11981197 felt the strongest objections to the measure now proposed. In the first instance it was to have been permanent, but now, he understood, it was to; be temporary. In either point of view: it was objectionable. If it were permanent, it would effect a permanent alteration in the court of King's-bench, and if temporary, it would produce one of the greatest evils that could be found in a; court of justice—a temporary and experimental course of judicature. Why should such a measure pass? Was the King's-bench the only court in Westminster-ball to which causes should be sent? If so, then the twelve judges should belong to; that court. But if there were two other courts, sitting almost in idleness, he thought it would show more good sense to alter their situation, rather than to remodel that court, in which justice was so; perfectly administered, as to create the very arrear that was objected to. That arrear, he contended, was not an evil for which the court was answerable. It was a circumstance caused by the popularity of the court. One court would be pen haps capriciously what might be termed a fashionable court; to it the suitors would resort, and there would be found the arrear. If, however, instead of in a king the two other courts act, they erected a third, perhaps it would be found that they had only added another to the idle courts already existing, while the King's-bench still remained encumbered with a vast mass of business. By this new plan more labour was to be thrown on the puisne judges, and he thought it was
11981197Mr. Denman
 said, that his motion in a great measure explained itself; its object undoubtedly was to remove, as far as possible, all obstacles to an amicable arrangement of the differences existing between their majesties.Mr. Wilberforce
1187 would have been happy to have heard what his right hon. friend had to propose as the distinct alterations to be adopted in his notice. The terms of that notice., not being drawn up on paper, might be very well susceptible of such alterations as would result from trifling varieties of opinion or slight shades of explanation. The motion in question, he thought it would be almost impossible for the House to resist, believing, as he did, that there prevailed in that House, as well as throughout the country, a real
1187Mr. Wilberforce
 said, he would rather decline for the present giving any further explanation. He did not wish that his motion should have the precedence, although he could not help thanking his noble friend for the readiness which he had shown to concede it to him. His noble friend, by that concession, evinced a desire, in which he was joined by the whole country, to avoid, if possible, all further inquiry into this disastrous subject [Hear, hear!].Mr. Wilberforce
 gave notice, that it was his intention to-morrow to propose to the House a motion founded upon the papers which had been laid upon the table, and ordered to be printed.Mr. Wilberforce
l.1196ex-officio objected to the bill, first, because it was unwise in its provisions, and, next, because it imposed a greater degree of labour on the puisne judges of the court of King's-bench, without providing for them any additional remuneration. Much of the time of the court was taken up in consequence of l.1196ex-officioMr. Chetwynd
—I stated that the learned judge did not approve of the bill.Mr. Scarlett.
l.l.l.nisi prius.1191nisi priusnisi, priusnisi prius1190 said, that in duty to the profession of the law, he felt himself bound to oppose the bill. It was said that business: pressed upon the court, but if the trifling causes were removed from that court which Were of no benefit to the suitors, but, on the contrary, ended in the ruin both of the plaintiff1 and the defendant, it would relieve the court and benefit the public. But when it was said that the business of the court had greatly increased for the last years, he begged leave to deny it, and, in support of his assertion, referred to a statement, by
l.l.l.nisi prius.1191nisi priusnisi, priusnisi prius1190Mr. Scarlett
 felt, as every man must do, the greatest possible reluctance to go into this subject at all, but, knowing nothing excepting what appeared on the paper, Would the hon. gentleman allow him to ask, whether his motion was of a nature to restore the name of her majesty to the Liturgy? because he took it for granted that such was the proposition he intended to make.Mr. Scarlett
 was happy to afford the noble lord information upon this point. It was a mistake to suppose that the late discontents in one battalion of the guards had any reference to pay or allowances: the men had alleged no such grievance, but the disorganization was produced by a notion, certainly unfounded, that the duty they were called upon to discharge was more severe than other battalions performed. Some years ago (whether at the time of the passing of the Corn bill, or when sir F. Burdett was conveyed to the Tower; he could not state) a practice had grown up in consequence of the employment of the men at night at a distance from their barracks, when they had no opportunity of procuring food, of giving the soldiers on duty certain small rations of bread, cheese, and beer, not in money, but in kind; and even this was never allowed but when the nature of the service particularly required it. It was paid for out of the commissariat department, on an account being verified of the number of loaves, and the quantity of cheese and beer, consumed. If tile noble lord wished for a statement of the amount thus disbursed, it could be furnished.Lord Palmerston
1246 assured the House that he felt considerable difficultyin rising to address them at that moment; and that but for paticular circumstances he shpi;d not have wished to intrude himself on the House before his hon. friend the member for Corfe Castle, who had risen at the same moment as himself. He was not so vain of his own powers as to hope that he could rivet the attention of gentlemen in the same degree that the hon. And learned member who had just addressed them had done. Indeed, the great difficulty he felt was occasioned by his being obliged to rise in opposition to the powerful impression which the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman had made on the house. He had made on the House. He had spoken on this as on other occasions, with all the talent
1246Lord Castlereagh
 said, he would wait till the hon. and learned gentleman returned.Lord castlereagh
 expressed his regret at the delay. From the view he had taken, of this question, he meant to have addressed the House in a later stage of the debate, which he might have done with propriety, because no proposition was submitted to there, but that of his hon. friend, which he did not mean to op pose. But the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman, which was delivered very early in the debate, rendered it. necessary that he should explain himself as soon as possible, on certain topics which the hon. and learned gentleman had introduced.Lord Castlereagh
 was willing to delay his observations to any period of the night that might best suit the convenience of the hon. and learned gentleman, to whom he intended the course which he had first adopted, as a mark of respect. The House must be aware, that from the nature of the relation in which they had been placed towards each other by the late proceedings, the line of argument employed by the hon. gentleman could only be met by him (lord Castlereagh), and in wishing to have his observations heard immediately by the hon. member, he was actuated by a desire to ascertain how much they understood each other. The House being cut off from the knowledge of many facts, could not possibly understand the effect of many of his (lord Castlereagh's) remarks, and therefore in the absence of the only hon. member to whom his remarks could be intelligible, he would have taken up the time of the House in vain.Lord Castlereagh
125912581257sine qua non,12561255de jure1254125312521251de jure,12501249 acknowledged, that in the course of the negotiations, however he might have differed from the law advisers of her majesty as to the matter of negotiation, there could be but one opinion as" to the conciliatory tone in which
125912581257sine qua non,12561255de jure1254125312521251de jure,12501249Lord Castlereagh
 seconded the amendment.Sir F. Burdett
1278sine, qua non.12771276 hoped the prediction of the hon. and learned gentleman who had just sat down, that if his hon. friend's motion were agreed to, there would be more discussion on the subject, would be falsified. It was in this hope he was induced to rise and support the motion, and from a wish that this interposition on the part of the House of Commons might settle those differences which, as yet could not be arranged either by letters lor.conferences,—He bad heard the hon. and learned gentleman with great pleasure, but one observation suggested, itself as arising put of his speech. He wondered the law advisers of the queen, had so long delayed to introduce the point of the Liturgy upon which the whole case seemed now to turn.—Why had not the House heard something before of the omission of her majesty's name? The hon. and learned gentleman said, that he had only recently become her majesty's adviser; but was not the hon. and learned gentleman in the last parliament, and had he not then opportunities enough of protesting against that measure which was new affirmed by Irim to be against law.—When the hon. and learned gentleman asserted that the omission of the queen's name, was made at the discretion of the privy council, the hon. gentleman must have forgotten the 13 and 14 of Charles Sad. A noble lord seemed to be under some mistake, when he spoke of certain ministers of the church persevering in praying to: the queen, upon conscientious
1278sine, qua non.12771276Mr. Bankes
1279 said, he should state very shortly his reasons for the vote which he meant to give. In looking at the question, he thought the consideration of, how far the honour of one party would be committed, or how much the triumph of another would be magnified, should not be at all calculated. In this view, therefore, he saw no obstacle to ministers restoring the queen's name to the Liturgy. By the 13th and 14th of Charles 2nd, a particular form of prayer was pointed out to be used on all occasions, and he contended, that the clause which empowered the king and privy council to make the necessary alterations from time to time, referred only to the power of changing the name, as the title of any branch of the royal family might be altered, and did not extend to the power of exclusion all together. He believed there was no precedent to prove the queen of England had ever been left out of the Liturgy. Having shown that in a legal construction of the act ministers were not warranted in leaving out her majesty's name, he next came to consider what possible injury could ensue from supplying the omission? It would satisfy her majesty's scruples, without derogating from the dignity of the monarch. He did not blame ministers for leaving the queen's name out of the Liturgy, for they did not know but it might be their duty to prefer charges against her. So far he gave them credit; but if the time had now arrived at which either policy or other motives prevented the prosecution of those
1279Mr. Williams
129712961295129412931292129112901289HONOUR—sole judge and umpire, of itself!"Within my bosom dwells another lord—And his high arbitration I'd regret.I owe a subject's homage; yet even him"To the liege lord of my dear native land1288pro tanto128712861285in terrorem,128412831282vestigia nulla retrorsum.logicé1281logicélogicé1280ex-parte said, it was not his intention to go over any of those topics which had been urged by other hon. members with much greater ability than he possessed. It was his wish to approach this question with an unprejudiced mind; and. while he claimed justice for that party which stood most in need of justice, he was anxious not to say any thing that might be construed into a want of respect for the Crown on this very painful occasion. The hon. member for Bramber had, in his opinion, taken a very erroneous view of the question. That hon. member had declared that the House must either agree to his proposition, or to some other conciliatory resolution of a similar nature, or else go into the immediate consideration of the contents of the green bag. He dissented entirely from the hon. member for Bramber. So far was he from thinking that the House was reduced to such a dilemma, that it did not appear to him that there was any possibility, after all that had been said, even by his majesty's ministers themselves, that the House, consistently with a regard to its own character, to the dignity of the Crown, to the respect due to the family on the throne, and above all to the interests of the public, ever could consent that the green bag should be opened.129712961295129412931292129112901289HONOUR—sole judge and umpire, of itself!"Within my bosom dwells another lord—And his high arbitration I'd regret.I owe a subject's homage; yet even him"To the liege lord of my dear native land1288pro tanto128712861285in terrorem,128412831282vestigia nulla retrorsum.logicé1281logicélogicé1280ex-parteSir Francis Burdett
 then rose, but the impatience of the House long prevented him from being heard. He observed, that if he had rightly understood the hon. and learned gentleman, he had said, that he was ignorant of the capacity in which lord Hutchinson appeared at St. Omer's.Mr. Hutchinson
1312 declared, that although this might be the case, he was confident that when all the circumstances were disclosed, they would reflect additional lustre on the already high and proud reputation of his noble relative. Both he and his noble relation were perfectly willing to join in those humane and honourable feelings which had been expressed with so much eloquence that night. Lord Hutchinson had placed himself in a most painful situation, with the view of preventing a great public mischief, and if the queen had not been most wretchedly advised, he would have succeeded in that object.—This would, he was satisfied, fully appear
1312Mr. Hutchinson
1314 in explanation, said, that his hon. friend had expatiated more strongly on his reasoning than any thing which he had stated would warrant. He had repeatedly declared, that the decision on the Liturgy had been taken by ministers, in contemplation of the charges of which they were at that time in possession. But he never had said that ministers came to that decision for the purpose of fixing a stigma on the royal personage. He had stated that they agreed in the measure for the purpose of avoiding a stigma [A laugh.] It was quite astonishing to see how eager gentlemen opposite were to arrive at their favourite conclusion, which was, to prevent all accommodation; but they could neither deceive the House nor the country [Order, order.] It was impossible not to be thrown out of one's natural bias of temper under such circumstances. He admitted that if the name of the duke of York had been placed in the Liturgy, and that of the queen excluded, it would have been a stigma. But, in the way in which it was done, it was that species of neutral measure which could not be considered a stigma. He did not mean to say that it placed her majesty in the same situation as if she had been specifically included in the prayer, or that it was a situation in which ministers, if those grave charges had not been preferred against her, would have found themselves justified in placing her. But, having heard those charges, they could not act otherwise than they had done, without placing themselves in
1314Lord Castlereagh,
126512641263126212611260 declared, that he was under the necessity of waiting until the motion before the House was read, before he could comprehend the hon. mover's intention—before he could determine upon the course which it was his duty to pursue. In proposing the amendment which he felt it his right to submit to the consideration of the House, as well as in the observations with which he should preface it, he begged to be understood that he spoke from no authority bat his own; and that he was not acting, in any connection whatever, with the queen's legal advisers. He had not, indeed, decided, until he came to the House, in what terms to couch his motion. There was, perhaps, no person in that House who felt more alarm than himself at the consequences but too likely to result from a public investigation of the subject which gave rise to this discussion; and therefore he was among the most eager to deprecate such a course of proceeding. In bringing forward the proposition which he had in view, he had no other object in view than that of doing substantial justice between the two illustrious individuals who were parties to the present discussion, and of had more of the House a proposition which had more of the spirit of conciliation in it than that which had been offered to them by his hon. friend the member for Bramber. For, what was the nature of that hon. gentleman's proposition; and in what manner was it connected with the measures which had preceded it? He would inform them. His hon. friend came to the House, and he could assure his
126512641263126212611260Lord Archibald Hamilton
1307130613051304income.l.1303l.13021301130012991298 began by declaring that, however much provoked by the speech which had been just delivered, he should abstain on the present occasion from entering into the lists with the hon. baronet, more out of respect to the real subject matter of the debate, which he thought ought not to be mixed with topics of personal vituperation and party invective, than (as he hoped the House would do him the justice to acknowledge) from any habitual indisposition to accept a challenge in debate when charged with want of principle, or with inconsistency of practice. He felt it his duty to recall the attention of the House to the much more interesting considerations involved in the motion before them.1307130613051304income.l.1303l.13021301130012991298Mr. Canning
1310salvo honore;13091308 observed, that as the better part of valour was discretion, the right hon. gentleman had thought fit to postpone his defence of ministers till the effect of the hon. baronet's speech had worn away. The right hon. gentleman had said, that ministers were not afraid to meet either boisterous accusers or clamorous cheers; but never had so golden an opportunity of vindication as the present been neglected. If a speech which could not fail to excite the interest of
1310salvo honore;13091308Mr. Tierney
 said, that in consequence of indisposition, exertion, und the great heat of the. House, his horn and learned friend felt it necessary to withdraw for a short time. The debate need not, however, be interrupted on that account. If the noble lord did not wish to proceed at present, the hon. gentleman below him who rose, firs might deliver his sentiments. His hon. and learned friend would return, as soon as the slight indisposition he felt would permit.Mr Tierney
 said, it only remained for him to remove the suspicion, that in withdrawing himself at the moment, he was intentionally guilty of any disrespect to the House.Mr. Brougham
12451244124312421241incunabula gentis,124012391238in pari materia.123712361235sine qua nonsine qua nonsine qua non1234123312321231sine qua non1230 took the liberty of presenting himself to the notice of the House thus early in the debate, partly because, from an indisposition tinder which he laboured, he feared he might not be able to deliver his sentiments at a later period; and partly because he wished to take the first opportunity of expressing, with that candour and frankness which the great importance of the question demanded, and, at the same time, with that sincere respect for his hon. friend which long intimacy and a concurrence in the esteem of the country (at least that part of it whose esteem was worth having) had pro-
12451244124312421241incunabula gentis,124012391238in pari materia.123712361235sine qua nonsine qua nonsine qua non1234123312321231sine qua non1230Mr. Brougham
 submitted to the House, that it was perfectly unprecedented for any one member to insist that another, who had a severe complaint in his chest, should be compelled to sit the whole evening in that House, and he protested against it. Since, however, the noble lord seemed to be so urgent, he, with the leave of the House, would retire to some part of the House where he would have the benefit of free air, which he stood at that moment much in need of—at the same time that he would be perfectly within hearing of the noble lord.Mr. Brougham
1311 in explanation, observed, that the noble lord had misunderstood what he had stated on a former occasion respecting the Liturgy. A question had been started as to her majesty's title of queen. He had then stated, that havingher name in the Liturgy, or receiving addresses, were trifles light as air; for queen she was, and queen she must be. It was in this way, in comparison with her general rights, that he spoke lightly of the omission of her name in the Liturgy, and not at all with regard to that proceeding considered in itself. He much regretted the ground on which ministers had now placed the omission of her majesty's name. With regard to the return of her majesty, it was true he had advised her to suspend her journey until a courier could have been sent to London and return. Whether that advice was right or wrong, he trusted the House and the country would suspend their opinion until he could explain the grounds on which it was given. He never advised her majesty to refrain altogether from coming to this country. Had the negotiation on the return of the courier failed, it would then have been for him to consider what further advice he ought to have given. Much had been said about her majesty's advisers. He confidently believed that the only adviser of the step her majesty had taken in coming to this country was herself. It was a step which reflected infinite honour on his illustrious client. It could not have come so well from her legal advisers as it did
1311Mr. Brougham,
 here interrupted the hon. member, in order to explain that what he had said was, that he had only recently learned that lord Hutchinson had received no instructions.Mr. Brougham
 was hardly more surprised at the late declaration that the noble lord had acted without the authority of his majesty's ministers, than at the address of his hon. friend who had just sat down. So far from imputing dishonourable conduct to the noble lord, he had put in the same claim for him that he had for himself, and had voluntarily offered to vindicate his conduct. Whether such vindication could have rendered that of the hon. gentleman superfluous, it would not be for him to determine.Mr. Brougham
1229 seconded the motion, and was persuaded that the House and the country could not desire a better
1229Mr. Stuart Wortley
12481247 said, that, seeing the House at that moment perfectly unoccupied, he hoped it would not be deemed presumptuous in him to attempt to arrest
12481247Mr. R. Martin
127512741273ex-parte12721271127012691268 said, that the observations which had fallen from the noble lord opposite had rendered it imperatively necessary for him to rise up in defence of the conduct of his hon. and learned friend and his own. With regard to the motion before the House, he thought be should ill discharge the duty which he owed to his illustrious client, were he to accede to the proposition of the hon. member for Bramber. He was by no means disposed to admit the refined distinctions which had been made between the duty which he owed to his client, and the duty which he was bound to perform as a member of parliament. It was impossible, indeed, to divest himself of those feelings of respect and duty which the confidence reposed in him by her majesty was calculated to inspire; but he saw not the smallest inconsistency in performing the duties of those separate capacities; for, he, would best defend the rights of the queen, who performed his duty best as an honest member of parliament. When, he considered upon what unequal terms the parties met, when he considered the power and influence with which the charges against her majesty had been brought forward, and the friendless and unprotected situation of her majesty, he thought there never was a case in which it became more imperiously the solemn duty of every honest man to stand forward as her advocate. He could not but allude to the situation in which he was himself most unexpectedly placed. He had never contemplated the possibility of being placed in the situation of a negociator upon so important an occasion, and no man could feel more strongly than himself his inadequacy to discharge its duties; but when he was told by the noble lord opposite, that his hon. and learned
127512741273ex-parte12721271127012691268Mr. Denman
 assured the hon. gentleman he had not the slightest intention of offering a single observation reflecting upon the deservedly eminent character of his noble relative.Mr. Denman
1313 replied. In allusion to the charge or insinuation that he had any understanding with ministers in bringing this question forward, he solemnly disclaimed it, and conceived that his long political life might have secured him against such a suspicion. He had carefully looked for any means by which he could effect his purpose—that of adjusting this unhappy
1313Mr. Wilberforce
122812271226122512241223122212211220121912181217121612151214 rose, to make his promised motion. He said, be could assure the House, that notwithstanding he could not plead that he had been urged into this business against his wishes, he was fully sensible of the great task which he had undertaken. So aware, indeed, was he of the extreme importance of that task, that were at not from considerations of indispensable duty, he should almost be induced to shrink, from any further proceeding. He was cheered, however, by the hope, that kind support and indulgence from the House which he had
122812271226122512241223122212211220121912181217121612151214Mr. Wilberforce
12671266de facto; after stating the position in which the House stood, desiring these differences to be arranged by conciliatory means, rather than by public discussion, took a view of the negotiations, in which he observed her majesty's legal advisers had contended for four distinct points of concession:—1st. the acknowledgment of the queen 12671266de facto;Mr. Wilmot,
 supported the motion, and expressed his opinion that the original omission of the queen's name from the Liturgy was most useless and improper.Sir Thomas Acland
 perfectly recollected that the letter alluded to had been received by a noble friend of his. He wished, at the same time to observe, that when he spoke of the Liturgy having been introduced by her majesty's advisers as an after-thought, he meant not to insinuate that her majesty had not thought of it: his object was to show that it was not, in the first instance, propounded to his majesty's servants as a principal ground of objection. While he was on his legs, he wished to suggest the propriety of the House sitting to-morrow, in order to receive her majesty's answer; not for the purpose of deliberating upon it, but in order that gentlemen might be in possession of it previously to any discussion.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that nothing could be more convenient than such a proceeding, provided no discussion was to take place. He wished here to state, that in consequence of the late hour to which parliament sat last night, as well as from the indisposition under which he laboured, he was unable to make any communication to her majesty before three o'clock to-day. This having been the case, her majesty was unable to fix any earlier hour than eleven o'clock to-morrow for receiving the, deputation.Mr. Brougham
1318"The Queen wishes to be informed, through the medium of lord Liverpool, first minister to the king, for what reason or motive the queen's name is left out of the general prayers in England, with a view to prevent all her subjects from paying her such respect as is due to her. And it is an equally great omission towards the king, that his consort queen should be obliged to submit to such great neglect, as if the archbishop was in perfect ignorance of the real existence of the queen Caroline of England. The queen is desirous that lord Liverpool should communicate this letter to the archbishop of Canterbury. Lord Liverpool will with difficulty believe how much the queen was surprised at this first act of cruel tyranny towards her; since she had been informed through the newspapers of the 22nd of February, that in the course of the debates in the House of Commons, lord Castlereagh, one of his best friends, assured the queen's attorney-general, that the king's servants would not use towards they queen any inattention or harshness. And after that speech of lord Castlereagh, the queen is surprised to find her name left Out of the Liturgy as if she no longer existed in this World. The queen trusts, before she arrives in England, these matters will be corrected, and that she will receive a satisfactory answer from lord Liverpool. "CAROLINE, Queen."Rome, March"Rome, March** trusted the House would allow him to supply an omission which he had last night made in the course of his speech, and which had only been brought to his recollection by her majesty in the course of this morning. It had been objected by the noble lord last night, that the introduction of the question of the Liturgy had been an afterthought on the part of her majesty's advisers. Now, he felt himself bound, in justice to the queen, to state, that the moment her majesty, at her then residence abroad, found, from the gazette, that her name was erased from the Liturgy, she instantly wrote to one of his majesty's ministers*, complaining of the injustice of
1318"The Queen wishes to be informed, through the medium of lord Liverpool, first minister to the king, for what reason or motive the queen's name is left out of the general prayers in England, with a view to prevent all her subjects from paying her such respect as is due to her. And it is an equally great omission towards the king, that his consort queen should be obliged to submit to such great neglect, as if the archbishop was in perfect ignorance of the real existence of the queen Caroline of England. The queen is desirous that lord Liverpool should communicate this letter to the archbishop of Canterbury. Lord Liverpool will with difficulty believe how much the queen was surprised at this first act of cruel tyranny towards her; since she had been informed through the newspapers of the 22nd of February, that in the course of the debates in the House of Commons, lord Castlereagh, one of his best friends, assured the queen's attorney-general, that the king's servants would not use towards they queen any inattention or harshness. And after that speech of lord Castlereagh, the queen is surprised to find her name left Out of the Liturgy as if she no longer existed in this World. The queen trusts, before she arrives in England, these matters will be corrected, and that she will receive a satisfactory answer from lord Liverpool. "CAROLINE, Queen."Rome, March"Rome, March**Mr. Brougham
 said, that the letter of her majesty, complaining of the omission Of her name in the Liturgy, had been written on the 16th March, and received here on the 29th. Of this letter he knew nothing, until informed of it by her majesty this morning.Mr. Denman
 informed the noble lord, that his majesty's government did not intend to make any appointment in the place of the late Scotch baron to whom he alluded.Lord Castlereagh
1321 said;—As we are now about to
1321General Fergusson
—I hope the hon. and gallant general will excuse me on the present occasion for reminding him, that, when we agreed to meet today, it was specifically understood by my hon. friend opposite (Mr. Wilberforce), and I believe by others, that we were not to meet for discussion, but merely to receive the queen's answer. As we are to enter upon this subject on Monday, I hope it will not be expected of me now to say one word that can lead to premature discussion. I must therefore decline answering the hon. and gallant general's question at the present moment.Lord Castlereagh:
 declined giving any answer to any farther question.Lord Castlereagh
 said, it was highly indecorous to be thus putting questions to the noble lord, especially when it was known to be the feeling of the House that there ought to be no discussion upon the subject at present.Mr. Martin
 begged to state, that one of the barons of the Scotch exchequer, called the English baron, had lately died. It was therefore his intention to move, on an early day, that the place just vacated should not be filled up, but that, agreeably to the recommendation of the committee on that subject, the barons of the Scotch exchequer should remain permanently at their present number.Lord A. Hamilton
 said, he stood in the same situation as his hon. friend who had just sat down. His motion respecting the Education of the Poor stood also for Tuesday. He could not, however, when he considered the great importance of the subject, and that, if the business of the country was allowed to yield to circumstances which might arise like those his hon. friend had alluded to, the public must eventually be sufferers to a deplorable extent, bring himself to postpone his motion beyond the appointed day. He had always foreseen that the momentous proceedings which were about to take place, would be attended with consequences such as the hon. member for Durham and himself referred to. He saw no alternative, however, but that of persisting in the course he now stated, and suggesting to the House the propriety, during the progress of the interesting discussions in which it was about to be engaged, of setting apart particular days for attending to the regular business of the country.Mr. Brougham
1319 begged the indulgence of the House for a few minutes. A motion of his, which he was pledged to his consti-
1319Mr. Lambton
1322 protested against the doctrine laid down by the noble lord, that his agreement with any hon. member was to be admitted as a bar to any inquiry which others might think proper to make. The question put by his hon. friend was a very proper one, and one to which the House had a right to expect an answer, although the noble lord need not answer it, certainly, unless he chose. But the sooner it was answered the better. The Milan commission must either have been the act of government, or have arisen out of underhand advice, to which the noble lord and his colleagues had found themselves obliged to truckle. If the noble lord and his colleagues thought these were acts that ought not to have taken place, they should gravely and respectfully have advised his majesty against them; and if their advice had been rejected, they ought immediately to have resigned their places to others [a laugh]. He did assure the gentlemen who had just indicated their feelings, that he spoke disinterestedly; for, so far from having a wish that his friends or the gentlemen who surrounded
1322Mr. M. A. Taylor
 did not wish to provoke discussion, but he felt it necessary to ask the noble lord if the adjourned debate on the king's message would be resumed on Monday, or if it was intended by ministers to insist on the appointment of a secret committee? He asked for the purpose of obtaining information for his constituents, who were anxious to seize the opportunity, if any should offer, to express their objections to that mode of proceeding, by way of petition to the House.Sir R. Wilson
135913581357 in offering himself to the notice of the House, was anxious to explain the motive of his conduct with respect to the question before it, and begged to be understood, in the vote he had given on the former night, to express no opinion whatever, as to the charges on the table; but without questioning the propriety of its decision, he could not concur in the resolution of the House, recommending to her majesty to make that concession which he could not, consistently with his own feelings, have made himself under the same circumstances.—If he thought that an inquiry into the charges would in any degree promote the honour or interests of the Crown, no individual could desire it more anxiously than himself; but it was from his conviction of the great arid inevitable injury that it threatened, and his perfect concurrence in the language of the resolution, that it must be derogatory to the honour of the Crown, and the dearest interests of the empire, that he considered it to be his bounden duty to oppose it. He considered such opposition to be still more the duty of those who voted for there-solution, who were bound not to express or act upon any opinion at variance with it. They had given her majesty credit for the justice of her feelings; and to persuade her to make the concession required, they assured her that it would not be considered as a wish on her part to avoid inquiry, or as proceeding from any motive whatever than a desire to comply with their wishes; but their bringing her to trial after this, would be a proof that
135913581357Colonel Palmer,
13611360 said, he lamented the absence of the hon. and learned gentleman, though he knew he was called away by his duties, in another character, in another place. The appointment of a secret committee had been proposed because the subject of inquiry was of a most delicate nature, and because many circumstances might otherwise be divulged which would defeat the end of that inquiry. His noble friend had, however, now superseded this form of proceeding, by undertaking himself to bring forward some specific proposition. The House would know how-to defend itself against any charge of inconsistency in now entering upon inquiry after the expressions contained in their recent vote. It appeared to him that nothing could be more unfounded than such a charge. With respect to the assertion that ministers possessed no evidence that could support their case, he would put it to the general feeling of mankind, whether it was possible that any set of men could place, in the shape of a charge, and, what was much more, bring before parliament, matters of little or no importance? The hon. and learned gentleman had talked of the prejudices which would be excited against her majesty. In every judicial inquiry there was some prejudice excited. Whether the investigation preliminary to the specific charge were public or
13611360Mr. Bathurst
136413631362 rose for the purpose of entering his protest against the motion of the noble lord, and, in doing so, he would shortly state the reasons that induced him to come to this determination. He protested against the motion, because the effect of such a vote would be to pledge the House, directly or indirectly, to an approval of the measures pursued by the noble lord, with a view to the projected inquiry. The sense of the whole country was distinctly and evidently opposed to such an inquiry, and the sentiments of the House, when the subject was mentioned on the first night, were shown to be distinctly and decidedly contrary to any investigation of this green-bag. The noble lord bad, he thought, drawn a very incorrect inference from the decision of that evening, as well as from the subsequent decision on the resolution of the hon. member for Bramber, for which he had voted in common with the majority of the House. When the noble lord made the original motion, he laid this green-bag on the table, and called on the House for immediate inquiry. The House, however, decided when an alternative was held forth that it ought to be adopted in preference. Why had not that alternative been properly followed up? Had not the whole country expressed a clear and decided opinion that the inquiry was not fit to be gone into? The country had adopted that opinion, for this plain reason, because it appeared that the inquiry, which was at first described to be of a criminal
136413631362Mr. Western
13491348ipso facto,prima facie13471346prima facieprima facie1345primá facie134413431342ex porteprima facieprima facie13411340 said, that in calling the attention of the House to the situation in which it was placed, after the proceedings which were had at the close of the last week, and particularly after what had occurred at the last meeting of the House, and considering also that the order of the day relative to his majesty's message stood for discussion that night, he must fairly own to the House what was his opinion of their present situation. After all the efforts which had been made, and to which, he trusted, the House would consider that his majesty's government had lent itself with the utmost readiness and anxiety, he thought that the House would now feel that every hope which could have entered into his mind at any time, and in whatever degree he might have ventured to entertain that hope (although he had always expressed himself with the utmost caution as to the final result) lie thought that the House must now consider that every effort which had been made on the part of his majesty's government, and, what was more, upon the part of parliament itself, with the view of effecting an adjustment of compromise, had
13491348ipso facto,prima facie13471346prima facieprima facie1345primá facie134413431342ex porteprima facieprima facie13411340Lord Castlereagh
prima facie1381prima facie said, he had felt it his duty to urge upon the House the necessity of catching at any thing which would be likely to adjust the present unhappy differences; but, unfortunately, the proposals of that House had been rejected, and they were now called upon to enter upon an inquiry. Differing, as he did, on many occasions, from those gentlemen who had spoken in opposition to the proposition of the noble lord, he nevertheless felt that the House would be guilty of great impropriety in agreeing to this adjournment. Let the House see how the case stood. A message, demanding the most solemn attention of the House, had been brought from the Crown, and the House had pledged itself to take that message into its immediate consideration. On the first day, the noble lord suggested the possibility of entering into some arrangement, and the House agreed to an adjournment for that purpose; but now the noble lord came and said, that he wished to bring the question before the House in another shape, and therefore requested an adjournment for that purpose. If ministers had brought down a message from the Crown, desiring the House to suspend their operations on the former message, the course to be pursued by the House would be clear; but, in the present case, he confessed he did not see how the House could suspend their operations, and allow the noble lord to bring the question under their consideration, in the way he had mentioned. If the secret committee had been appointed, and had not found that there was sufficient ground for inquiry, they might have felt it their duty to move for the censure of parliament, or perhaps they might have felt it their duty to impeach his majesty's ministers. He could not suppose that any man in his senses would come down to the House and prefer such serious charges, except on evidence which appeared, prima facie1381prima facieMr. Wynn
1389138813871386sine quâ non,13851384 said:—Mr. Speaker; I fear, Sir, that, as almost every topic has been exhausted and every argument used which may appear material to those who advocate the opinions which I venture to
1389138813871386sine quâ non,13851384Mr. Hobhouse
 stated, that if his motion was acceded to, it was his intention to follow it up with addresses to the king, and to her majesty also, the purpose of which would be, to promote a final and amicable adjustment upon this subject.Mr. Western
13981397were began by observing, that if revolutions 13981397wereMr. Marryat
13781377 said, he agreed with the amendment of his hon. friend, because he did not think that the delay would, as an honourable member bad thought, put a stop to the proceedings altogether. He objected to. the delay proposed by the noble lord, because it was proposed upon grounds offensive to his majesty, highly offensive to the queen, and subversive of the principles of public justice.
13781377Lord Nugent
13751374137313721371137013691368136713661365 said, the noble lord appeared to be in a more awkward situation than that in which he had been placed on a former occasion. He came forward apparently with the assumption, that whatever he proposed for adoption would be agreed to. He hoped the noble lord would find himself mistaken on the present occasion, as the subject was one of the most important that could be conceiv-
13751374137313721371137013691368136713661365Mr. Tierney
con.pro1356ex parte,1355135413531352tactique13511350 said, he entirely, and from the bottom of his heart, concurred in the concluding observations of the noble lord; and he implored all sides of the House at that moment, at the commencement of an inquiry now inevitable, not to let the spirit or the voice of party inter-
con.pro1356ex parte,1355135413531352tactique13511350Mr. Brougham
 in a brief explanation, said, that all the delay wanted on the part of the queen was, a sufficient time to produce evidence to disprove the accusations against her. The import of the words in the negotiation which settled the basis on the ground that the one side should retract, and the other side admit nothing, had, he conceived, been mistaken. It had been, assumed that they meant that there should be no concession on either side; but if that had been their meaning, it would have been quite ridiculous for the commissioners to have met five times afterwards to endeavour to settle terms. All that they implied was, that neither of the parties should concede any thing inconsistent with their honour, but that the queen might concede, or the king, or ministers retract or concede any other points on which they might otherwise be disposed to insist.Mr. Brougham,
13831382 said, that as his noble colleague bad clearly shown that the House was not reduced to the alternative of either withdrawing its support from the present advisers of the Crown or of proceeding immediately with the proposed inquiry, he did not feel it necessary to offer those remarks upon that subject which he certainly should have offered had it not been for the observations of his noble colleague. He would, however, assure his noble friend that though he supported the present administration on most occasions, from a conviction that the policy which they pursued was calculated to promote the best interests of the nation, he was still of opinion, that if the present unfortunate differences could be brought to a happy termination by their removal, they ought most unquestionably to be removed from their present
13831382Mr. Stuart Wortley
 said, he did not presume that the public had a right of thoroughfare through the Mews; he was only anxious to know, whether any steps were to be taken to remedy the inconvenience to the public.Mr. M. A. Taylor
1339 seeing an hon. friend of his in his place, begged to know whether it was the intention to re-open the king's Mews as a
1339Mr. M. A. Taylor,
1376 differed from the conclusion to which the right hon gentleman had arrived, when he declared that guilt would be proved against ministers, if they failed to establish the charges against the queen If government were satisfied of her innocence, he thought they were still bound to proceed with the charges in justice to her majesty. The ministers in this case he regarded as merely acting the part of the clerk of the Crown—they presumed no guilt—they merely laid the charges before the House that they might be met and refuted, while they in effect said to the accused party, "God send you a good deliverance." That the charges must now be proceeded with was clear, from, what had fallen from the right hon. gentleman himself, as be had demanded trial for her if she were guilty—acquittal if innocent. Under these circumstances the Crown must proceed to make out its. case He was not surprised at such a
1376Mr. R. Martin
 said, he objected entirely to the measures that had been pursued by ministers since her majesty's arrival in this country, and more particularly to the motion brought forward this day; because it appeared to him, that ministers, by proposing measure after measure, and scheme after scheme, were endeavouring to delude the House into some sort of sanction of what they had done. In opposing the resolution of his hon. friend the other night, he did so, not because he would interpose any bar to an amicable adjustment of their differences, but because, when that resolution was put into plain words, it amounted to this, that the queen should be requested to submit to a gross insult, which must have the effect of degrading her for ever. With the same feeling he now begged leave to second the amendment which had just been moved, and which, he felt no doubt, would be approved of by the country.Mr. S. Whitbread
ex-parte1390 said, that the only object of the queen was, to obtain an open public inquiry; that that was what her majesty distinctly applied for in her first communication to that House; and that that also was what she looked for in those terms of her answer to the resolutions of the House, where she spoke of an appeal to the public justice of the country. With respect to the motions before the House, as he and his colleague, in their address to the other House of Parliament that day had offered to submit the case of the queen to any mode of public inquiry which parliament might think proper to institute, he and his colleague felt it most becoming not to vote upon the present occasion. They were not, he begged it to be understood, at all adverse to inquiry; their only objection being to any secret investigation or private tribunal. But he could not help observing the new and singular grounds which were this night urged on the other side for prosecuting the proposed inquiry. The inquiry was, it seemed, now to be persisted in, not because her majesty had rejected the propositions made to her at St. Omer's, not because she had ventured to come to this country, not because the correspondence which had taken place respecting her in France had been published in the several journals, a, proceed-
ex-parte1390Mr. Denman
 said, he was not able to give the hon. member any satisfactory information on the subject. The Mews was not in his department, but he understood that its being left open as a thoroughfare, was only by indulgence. He did not know whether it was or was not: to be re-opened.Mr. Huskisson
1396 rose amidst general cries of question! As soon as the noise had in some degree subsided, the hon. member expressed his concurrence in the sentiment laid down by his hon. and learned friend, that this question was not a party question. He had voted for the address proposed by his hon. friend last week, because he was willing to adopt any mea-
1396Mr. W. Smith
13921391 expressed his regret that the advice of the House of Commons had been rejected, because he was convinced that if it had been followed, her
13921391Mr. Wilberforce
 rose for the purpose of shortly stating his intention to postpone the further progress of some of the bills he had introduced into parliament in amendment of the penal code of this country.—In consequence of a conversation which he had had with the law officers of die Crown, he was aware of their intention to oppose three of these bills; and in the present state of public business, and when the mind of every member was occupied so deeply in the consideration of one unfortunate question, he should think it ill-became him to press forward those bills which were so important to the country He entertained a reasonable hope that there would be time in the course of the present session to terminate the subject, but for the present he should only move the second of those bills on which he did not anticipate opposition. The Limitation of Forgeries bill, the Repeal of the Statute act relative to Larceny, and the Navigable Rivers Robbery bill, were the three on which he expected opposition. The other three he hoped his learned friend the attorney-general would allow to pass their second readings, leaving the discussion on them to take place in the committee, on the bringing up of the report.Sir James Mackintosh
139513941393 considered the question now before the House as one of the first importance to the nation. He presumed that the hon. gentleman who had preceded him thought so too; but he certainly was at a loss to know, whether his hon. friend intended to support or oppose the amendment. He imagined that it must be his intention to support it; for, deprecating as his hon. friend had justly done, a secret inquiry, as prejudicial to the national character and honour, he took it for granted that his hon. friend would vote for a motion which would probably preclude any inquiry at all. The real question, in fact, was, whether a secret committee was to be instituted, or whether it was to be abandoned altogether? As he could not concur in the idea of a secret committee at any stage of the proceedings, he thought it his duty to give his support to any motion which tended to render it unnecessary. Now, the amendment of his hon. friend went directly to do away with the green bag and to prevent any exposure of its contents. He called upon the House to recollect the feeling which they had expressed when the first mention of these proceedings had been made to them. Such being, then their opinion, he asked what had since occurred to change it? An adjournment had been agreed to to give an opportunity for a reconciliation, which reconciliation had unfortunately not taken place. Though he
139513941393Mr. Scarlett
13801379 said, he could not but look upon the intended investigation as one pregnant with the most positive and absolute danger to the country. He thought, notwithstanding what had been hitherto done, that some means might be yet devised to spare the House and the country the pain which must necessarily arise from the disclosure of the alleged charges against her majesty. He said this the more because he did not think the House could be called upon to decide on charges except those of a public nature. He had listened attentively to the speech of the noble lord, and had expected that he would lay before the House such reasons as would justify them in instituting a public inquiry; but instead of that, he had been disappointed in seeing that the noble lord had not stated any thing in his speech to induce the House to advise such an investigation. The noble lord had spoken of the conflict between parties, but the noble lord did not propose that the inquiry should be entered upon on the ground of injury to public morals likely to ensue from the conduct of her majesty. From the silence of the noble lord on these points, he should be induced to suppose that the noble lord had proposed the inquiry upon private grounds, and not upon grounds of a public nature. If such were the motives which had induced the noble lord to call upon the House for a secret committee, he would implore the House to pause before they plunged the country into a state of danger which (after the humane, forcible, and philanthropic manner in which it had been pressed upon the House by the hon. member for Bramber), it would be absurd in him to describe. He would ask the House, whether it was wise or prudent, upon private grounds, to enter into
13801379Lord Milton
 said, he had listened with much satisfaction to the perspicuous details given with so much ability by the hon. and learned gentleman. He was quite incapable of giving any opinion at present on the general merits of the proposed plan, but he should best discharge his duty by giving his consent to the bringing in of the bill, reserving to some future occasion the discussion of its principles. From the importance of the subject and the great interests involved in it, he hoped the hon. and learned gentleman would not press the bill during the present session. After the bill should have been brought in, it could be printed, and members would then be prepared for its discussion. He, at least, would give it his best attention.Lord Castlereagh
90 had listened to the hon. and learned gentleman's speech with the utmost attention, and expressed his opinion that the details which were presented in it rendered it more incumbent than ever upon the House to take the state of education throughout the country into their immediate consideration. Some of the plans, however, which the hon. and learned gentleman had proposed were totally inapplicable to Ireland. If he had not himself called the attention of the House, as he had promised
90Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 said, it was impossible by ordinary means to put down the disturbances that existed, and hence it was, that his hon. friend called upon the House to accede to his proposition for a select committee on the subject. It was well known unlawful oaths were every where administered, especially in the disturbed districts, and that nothing but the presence of the military preserved the public tranquillity.Mr. D. Brown
101100999897Not in thy Gorgon terrors clad."Dread Goddess! lay thy chastening hand,"O! gently on thy suppliant's head,96 perfectly agreed with the hon. mover in the extreme importance of the subject, not merely because it involved the character of the existing government of Ireland, but much more because it involved the consideration of the principle on which Ireland had been and ought to be governed. He (Mr. Grant) was certainly in a singular situation. He had felt it his duty already to state to parliament that there did not appear to the lord-lieutenant and the government of Ireland, to be any ground for proposing the renewal of the Insurrection act. And now an honourable gentleman rose, and with curious inconsistency complained that the Irish government was not alive to the state of Ireland, and at the same time proposed to enact a law which was, to give that government a discretion that they did not think it necessary to possess! He felt bound to oppose the motion; not merely because it was brought on so late in the session (although that, notwithstanding the explanation of the hon. gentleman, would have been sufficient); not merely because if the House were absolutely to go into a committee, the proposition of the honourable mover was not sufficiently extensive; as it did not include any inquiry into the local and general causes of the disturbances; not merely because he was hostile to the supposition of the hon. gentleman, that only what were called strong measures could be salutary; but because the bill which the hon. gentleman recommended was contrary to that principle on which, in his opinion, the government of Ireland ought to be conducted. Did the House recollect what were the provisions of the Insurrection act? Did they recollect that it forbad every person to be absent from his house from sun-set to sun-rise? Did they recollect that it established a perpetual
101100999897Not in thy Gorgon terrors clad."Dread Goddess! lay thy chastening hand,"O! gently on thy suppliant's head,96Mr. Charles Grant
104 contended for the necessity
104Mr. Foster
 said, that no man had a greater respect for the opinion of the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down than he had, because from his great local knowledge and experience he might be considered competent to form a correct judgment. He must, however, deny that there was any thing in the present state of Ireland to justify the introduction of such a measure under any modification. If Ireland was really in such a state as had been described by his right hon. friend (Mr. V. Fitzgerald), he could not help thinking that he was rather tardy in not coming forward until now that tranquillity had been restored under the authority of the law of the land. The Insurrection act was not a measure to be adopted upon a precautionary principle; it required the existence of insurrection to justify its introduction. It was, in fact, like the income tax, a measure, which, if adopted at a proper time, and with proper regulations, might be attended with the best effects, but which ought never to be introduced without the existence of an adequate necessity. Ireland was now in a tranquil state; and he thought it would be at once impolitic and uncalled for to select a moment of public quiet to bring into action a measure, the spirit of which was agreed, upon all hands, to be repugnant to the constitution, and which could only be warranted by an adequate state of public disturbance.Lord Castlereagh
103 maintained the expediency of the proposed inquiry, although it appeared to be resisted by the combined
103Mr. V. Fitzgerald
102 regretted, in common with his hon. friend, the inattention which had been paid to the general state of Ireland by the government, of which the right hon. gentleman formed so prominent a member. A great part of the session had now elapsed, and no notice had been taken of the nightly meetings, the outrages, and the bloodthirsty assassinations which had invaded the quiet of a whole province, and produced the loss of many lives. Had his hon. friend proposed an insurrection act at once, he should not have supported such a motion, because he was, generally speaking, averse to measures of violence rashly or hastily adopted. The evils of the state of Ireland at present originated, in a great degree, from those unavoidable circumstances in which she had been placed for a series of years past. The soldiery, scattered at a great distance from head-quarters, too often plundered the peasantry. This begat reprisals, and the peasantry rose in arms, or secretly avenged their wrongs by assassination. The Insurrection act was passed in 1807, with a view to prevent the necessity of employing the military. The danger now was greater; and yet any measure of this nature was declared by government to be unnecessary. Gentlemen who, like himself, were in the habit of supporting government, expected they should be protected by the government in their turn; and it was of greater importance to them that their dwelling should be protected, their repose undisturbed, and their lives unmenaced, than that any particular set of men should hold the reins
102Mr. Dawson
105 wished his hon. friend would withdraw his motion, as it would only tend, if carried, to make the Irish people believe they were not looked upon as a portion of the British empire. Conciliation would do every thing for Ire-land; it would promote the union of the two countries; and he was happy to hear
105General Hart
 observed, that he had studiously abstained from any mention of Ireland throughout his address to the House, from a consideration of the state of religion in that country; and if the Dissenters in England bore any such proportion to the members of the Established Church, as the Catholics in Ireland did to those of that country, his views of the subject would have materially differed.Mr. Brougham
 said, he had no wish to press so important a measure hastily through the House, as, independently of the advantages which would accrue from its discussion within doors, great advantages would also be gained by its discussion out of doors—he meant among the clergy of the establishment, and all who were in any way connected with it. If the sense of the House should appear to be in favour of passing his bill during the present session, he should certainly, speaking individually, be better pleased; but if the House should think that it ought to be delayed to a future occasion, he should cheerfully submit to such delay as to the House might appear most advisable.Mr. Brougham
89l.l.l.s.s.8887l.l.l.86l.85l.l.l.l.l.l.l.s.l.l.l.84l.commendam83multum vexata questiu.ostiarius,l.paulo post futnruml.l.l.l.l.l.8281l.l.quorum.807978d.s.d.d.77minus efficientis literatureœ;76veto.veto7574l.73ostuarii,72l.l.l.l.7170l.l.69l.certioraricertiorari68as, mutatis mutandis,67l.66nil.65646362616059585756555453525150 rose. He said, he returned his best thanks for the candour and the kindness of both the hon. gentlemen, in allowing him the precedence; and now, without any further preface, he would at once enter upon the subject he wished to bring before the House. After a very Jong period of time employed upon its consideration, he had at length determined to bring forward a motion, which in his estimation, was second to none in its magnitude or its importance. Parliament had been for some time, indeed, occupied upon what might be vulgarly considered a topic of more importance, a question to which the most intense attention of the nation had been directed; but by the production of the plan which he was about to submit to parliament, he trusted, that
89l.l.l.s.s.8887l.l.l.86l.85l.l.l.l.l.l.l.s.l.l.l.84l.commendam83multum vexata questiu.ostiarius,l.paulo post futnruml.l.l.l.l.l.8281l.l.quorum.807978d.s.d.d.77minus efficientis literatureœ;76veto.veto7574l.73ostuarii,72l.l.l.l.7170l.l.69l.certioraricertiorari68as, mutatis mutandis,67l.66nil.65646362616059585756555453525150Mr. Brougham
95949392 rose to bring forward his promised motion. He expressed his regret that he was under the necessity of calling the attention of the House to the disturbed state of Ireland. There never was a period when the state of that country required a more prompt and vigorous interposition on the part of government; when the disturbances were so extensive, and the outrages of so violent and dangerous a character. He should abstain from entering into any topics which were likely
95949392Mr. Daly
 denied, that in the county of Galway there was any thing like a rebellion. In the baronies where his property was situated, every thing was tranquil, and he claimed their exception from the imputation. He opposed the motion, and recommended his hon. colleague to withdraw it, as the measure was unnecessary in the present situation of the country.Mr. R. Martin
 said, he felt it necessary to point out to his hon. friend, the member for Gal way, why he considered the measure of an Insurrection act perfectly unnecessary. The British House of Commons would always hear with surprise an application from Irish members to coerce their own country, by enactments abhorrent to the constitutional feelings of that House. It was remarkable, that although the Insurrection act had been passed in 1807, as a means of intimidating and keeping the spirit of insubordination in check, it had never been acted on, except in the district alluded to, although frequently applied for by local magistrates in other quarters of that country. The object of government at that period, and he then formed a part of it, was, to conciliate the feelings of the people, whilst they endeavoured to possess themselves of sufficient power to govern that country with tranquillity. Was the House prepared to strengthen the hands of the Irish government beyond even what that government considered necessary for its authority, and the preservation of the public tranquillity? He had been surprised at hearing from his hon. friend, that a whole province of Ireland was now in a state of insurrection. He believed it was no such thing. In fact, they themselves had admitted that, owing to the application of the Peace Preservation bill, the country had been restored to tranquillity. Under these circumstances, he conceived that no case had been made out for such an enactment, and he should therefore vote against the motion.Mr. Wellesley Pole
 expressed the obligations which he felt to his hon. and learned friend for the exertions which he had made, not only in establishing the principles, but in explaining the details, on which his bill was founded. He was confident that those exertions would be productive of the greatest benefits to the community, and that too at no very distant period.Mr. Wilberforce
 said that from the statements he had that night heard, he should have imagined that Ireland was in a state of universal disturbance; but the fact was, there had been some disturbance in Gal-way, and they were now called upon for more rigorous measures, after the lenient proceedings of government had had their proper and full effect.Mr. W. Parnell
91 said, that he had read with great satisfaction the report of the education committee, and had heard with still greater satisfaction the measure which his hon. and learned friend had founded upon it. Having been himself alluded to in the course of the observations which had been made upon this subject, he would assert, that though he might be considered a speculatist, yet he was no visionary on the subject of education. He did not intend to trouble the House with many observations on it at present; but he could not help making one observation which had been repeatedly forced upon his notice during his residence in a distant part of the British empire. He had repeatedly had occasion to remark that morality if not produced, was at least best preserved, amongst those of our soldiers and sailors who were possessed of the power of communicating with their relations in Europe by means of writing. It was a truth so obvious, that there was no need for him to waste words in dilating
91Sir James Mackintosh
 also remarked on the deficiency of education, and the necessity of bestowing it on the people of Ireland. He was sorry that the act for numbering the population had not been sooner put into force, because that, by showing the extent of the want, it would have brought the House so much nearer to the accomplishment of that object. He considered that in any measure of this sort as applied to Ireland, it should be distinctly borne in mind that the great majority of the nation were of a different religion from that of the state.Sir J. Newport
 expressed his satisfaction at being able for once to support the conduct of the executive government with regard to Ireland. He begged leave to remind his right hon. friend, that though Mr. Grattan had supported the Insurrection act generally in the then state of the country, he had repeatedly divided the House on that very clause of domiciliary visits to which it was now proposed that the act should be limited.Sir J. Newport
109108l.l.l.107 rose for the purpose of submitting his promised motion relative to the production of a copy of the memorial presented by a native of Parga to the secretary of state. He was perfectly aware, that at the present time of the year, so near the conclusion of the session, and in the present agitated state of the public mind, it was extremely difficult for him to engage that attention which he could wish to circumstances occurring in a distant country, and not at all connected with that one paramount and domestic object which at present entirely occupied the public mind; but at the same time, he felt it his duty to urge this momentous subject, as one well-deserving the attention of parliament; and he thought that they were bound to give to the people of Parga that protection, which was not only a valuable right, and one to be extended, in such a case, of all others, but which could alone be their safeguard from the further continuance of those abuses and that oppression under which they at present laboured. The House would not expect that he should now enter into a detailed view of the question as to the cession of Parga. Would to God that he could enter into it with such effect as to be able to induce the House to commiserate the fate, and to relieve the situation, of a wronged and gallant people! Notwithstanding all the attempts which had been made by an anonymous writer to colour the transactions which had betrayed them, and to gloss over the counsels which had achieved their ruin, he thought the general opinion of mankind would be, that this was a case of as notorious treachery and as grievous injury, as any that had ever yet occurred in the world. And what had been the consequence, as regarded our own reputation? Our enemies always alluded with extreme anxiety to the case of Parga, as an instance of our acquiescence in oppression, and our desertion of the cause of freemen; and they reproached us with this fatal inconsistency—that we, who for ages, and throughout protracted wars, had stood forward as the champions of the rights of nations, were content, when the enemies of the Parguinotes required their submission, and the surrender of their rights, to act in a very different character, and upon principles contrary to those on
109108l.l.l.107Lord John Russell
113l.l.112l.bonâ fide111110 congratulated the House, that after two or three years of misrepresentations, invented with art and circulated with industry, the time was not far distant when the documents to be laid upon the table of parliament would lay the whole case regarding Parga fairly before the country. The House would then be able to judge whether the resignation of this island was, as had been asserted, an act of grievous treachery, or whether, on the contrary, it had not been inevitable, if any regard was to be paid to positive and distinct engagements. The whole of the speech of the noble lord afforded the strongest confirmation that he himself entertained some doubt upon the question. If the case of Parga manifestly and indisputably reflected disgrace on the British government, would the noble lord have thought it necessary to wander about in search of subsidiary matter not really and fairly connected with the point at issue, but relating to the whole government of the Ionian islands? The talents and dexterity of the noble lord would not have been so exerted, had he not been sensible that he must find something or other to bolster up a bad case. The noble lord had alluded to certain anonymous statements recently published regarding Parga but he gave the noble lord credit for being unconnected with other anonymous statements elsewhere printed, which had led to that refutation. He maintained that the British government had not restored Parga to Turkey, without being fully satisfied that the latter had an indisputable right to the island; and he proceeded to prove his assertion by reference to the treaty of Campo Formio, by which it had been first made over to France, and subsequently relinquished to Turkey. The war between France and the Porte broke out in 1798, and the joint fleets of Russia
113l.l.112l.bonâ fide111110Mr. Goulbum
116|| in reply, said, that as the inhabitants of Parga had surrendered themselves on the understanding that they should follow the fate of the Ionian isles, he still thought faith had not been kept with them. If the great powers at the congress of Vienna had acted as they professed, on the principle of restitution, he should have been satisfied. Venice would then have been restored, and Parga would have been put under the
116||Lord J. Russell,
 presented a petition from Benjamin Wills, honorary secretary to the provisional committee for the encouragement of industry, praying that parliament would take some steps to provide the people with proper employment, and thus prevent them from falling into that state of degradation which must inevitably ensue, if they were not able, by their labour, to support themselves.Mr. Maxwell
121120l.119118ignis fatuus.117 in rising to move for a select committee to inquire imto the nature of the distress by which the Cotton Weavers were affected, and to consider whether there was any practicable mode by which assistance could be extended to them, felt it necessary to make a few observations explanatory of his reasons for bringing forward a partial motion. When the whole community were suffering, and the manufacturing districts were plunged in such a state of misery as was now presented—when individuals were unable to procure employment, and found it wholly impossible to maintain themselves—he felt that he should have grossly neglected his duty, if he had not before the close of the session called the serious attention of government to the distress that prevailed. If they could not do away that distress altogether, they might, perhaps, devise some means by which it might be alleviated. The table had been covered with statements, both from the workpeople themselves, and from the magistrates, detailing to that House and to the government, the extent of the misery that prevailed. They admitted that great irritation existed; but they traced that irritation to the severe privations to which the lower classes of the community had unfortunately been too long exposed. He was astonished that ministers, who had extended relief to particular individuals, and even to the throne itself, should have overlooked these frequent calls. The distress which they had endeavoured to avert could not for a moment be placed in competition with that which he had described. When a motion for a committee to consider the state of the manufacturing population was
121120l.119118ignis fatuus.117Mr. Maxwell,
122 observed, that it was tolerably well known he was no advocate for parliamentary reform and he was the less so, because he was unwilling to convert the House into a college of disputants. But his hon. friend seemed disposed, from the variety of subjects to which he had adverted, to render the committee he proposed quite an arena for disputation, and the very first point which he would have this committee discuss was an abstract idea. That a committee might be useful and essential in collecting and arranging facts and information he was ready to admit, but this was, he believed, the first time it was proposed to refer to a committee the discussion of an abstract idea. The hon. member's professed object was, to benefit the cotton manufacturers, but how that was to be done by such taxes as he pro-
122Mr. Robinson
 after a short reply, consented to withdraw his motion until the next session. The motion was accordingly withdrawn.Mr. Maxwell,
 said, that he conceived the duty of government to be, to give the greatest possible development to industry. This they could do only by removing the obstacles which had been created. He complained therefore of government on very different grounds from the hon. mover, for his complaint was against the restrictions on trade, and other obstacles of that description, which opposed the development of industry. The recommendations of the hon. mover were inconsistent with the contrast between one class and another. If government interfered, they would do mischief and no good. They had already interfered, and done mischief by the poorlaws. The principles of the hon. mover would likewise violate the sacredness of. property, which constituted the great security of society.Mr. Ricardo
 denied that the Parguinotes were not paid the whole sum promised them.Mr. Goulburn
 said, that that circumstance admitted of an explanation.Mr. Goulburn
 opposed the motion, conceiving that its adoption would only serve to hold out false hopes, which might probably induce the agriculturists and other classes of the people whose distress was quite equal to that of those for whom the hon. mover was an advocate, to make similar applications to that House. He particularly deprecated the hon. member's proposition to tax absentees, for such a tax would most probably urge those to take away their capitals from this country who at present only spent their incomes in (other nations, and the capital once taken away was by no means likely to return. He disagreed with the plans of spade-husbandry, and others, which had been proposed, because they all appeared on a nearer view to be futile. The House at any rate could not grant a committee until some of those plans should be found effectual, by the experience of people out of doors. Besides, if the House granted a committee to the cotton weavers, the agricultural labourers, and almost all others, would have an equally good claim to consideration, and would scarcely fail to urge it. Time alone and patience, which he doubted not the people would show, could cure the difficulties under which they laboured.Mr. Lockhart
l.l.l.115l.l.l.l.l.114 observed, that, feeling as he did for the condition of a people who had been compelled to remove from their native homes, he hoped the House would excuse him for offering a few observations on the subject. He admitted that Parga stood in need of some protecting power, and had been for a long time dependent on the Venetian republic. The treaty of Tilsit had, however, as he conceived, distinctly conveyed it by name, with the other Ionian islands, to France. It afterwards fell into our hands by conquest and the treaty of 1815. This at least was the general understanding; and the impression of the Parguinotes themselves certainly was, that they were to share in the fate of the other islands. With respect to the officer alluded to by the hon. gentleman opposite to have raised expectations in the minds of the people of Parga which could not fairly be fulfilled, he must say, that he had the pleasure of being acquaint-
l.l.l.115l.l.l.l.l.114Mr. Hume
l. said, he rested on the proclamation of the governor of the 19th of June, stating that 113,000l.Mr. Hume
 rose to move for leave to bring in a bill to abolish the punishment of Whipping Female Offenders in any case whatever. The House was aware, that by an act of the year 1817, the system of public whipping of females had been wholly exploded; but he was surprised that the private whipping of females had been by that measure permitted to continue, looking on it as he did as objectionable, or even more objectionable than the other. It might be said, in defence of its continuance, that it was necessary for the sake of example; but, on the other hand, as the infliction of the punishment was private, it was in the power of the gaoler or other superintendant to render it the most excruciating torture possible, or a mere matter of form; and this alone he thought a decided objection to it. With respect to the public whipping of females, he was of opinion that no exhibition could be more revolting to the feelings. The act to which he had alluded only abolished the punishment of the public whipping of females; but if the House would agree with him, they would go much further. His intention was to move for leave to bring in a bill to repeal that act, and substitute other provisions for the more effectual prevention of the whipping of females; and the object of it would be to prohibit that practice, not only in the cases already provided for, but in workhouses, houses of correction, lunatic asylums, and other places for the reception of lunatics. If, therefore, the House should be of opinion that it should in no case be permitted, he should humbly move for leave to bring in a bill to abolish the punishment of whipping female offenders in any case whatever.Mr. Chetwynd
 said, his opinion bad always been, that it was impossible, considering the situation of Parga, for us to keep possession of it. That possession must be deemed as offensive to Turkey, as Dover in the hands of the French would be to us, or Calais in our possession to the French. What he complained of and lamented was, that England should have charged itself with the odious responsibility of the cession. When that proceeding, however, was adopted, the most scrupulous care should have been taken to secure to the inhabitants the full value of their property. There was at present every reason to believe that the Parguinotes were dissatisfied; that they did not think they had received the protection which had been promised to them; and that our character had suffered in the eyes of Europe.Sir Robert Wilson
ll124, in alluding to the matter of the petitions took occasion to offer a few remarks upon the subject of turnpike-roads generally. Every hon. gentleman must be aware of the national importance of a good and perfect system for the regulation and management of roads. When he mentioned that, in the instance now more immediately before the House, an extent of no less than 136,000 acres was appropriated entirely for public roads, they would at once see how highly desirable it was that their construction and arrangement should be con-
ll124Mr. Davies Gilbert
 brought up the report on the linen bounties acts, and moved that the resolutions be read a second time.Mr. Maberly
s. argued against the policy of making these bounties permanent. He objected strongly to the second resolution which recommended the imposition of a duty of 28s.Mr. Robinson
139 said, that the people of Ireland wished that those of England and Scotland should be included in every thing
139Mr. Foster
R.G. R.125"The King acquaints the House of Commons, that a part of the provision made by parliament for certain branches of his majesty's royal family, has ceased in consequence of the demise of his late majesty, and recommends to his faithful
125"GEORGE R. presented the following Message from the King:
R.G. R.125"The King acquaints the House of Commons, that a part of the provision made by parliament for certain branches of his majesty's royal family, has ceased in consequence of the demise of his late majesty, and recommends to his faithful
125"GEORGE R.Lord Castlereagh
126 said, he meant to move a clause in this bill, which he conceived of great importance. It was one which would prevent Irish masters in Chancery from sitting in parliament, while they held such office. The duties of a master in chancery in Ireland were such, that if in parliament, either the one or the other must be neglected [Hear!]. The public duties which devolved on a master in chancery, ought not to be neglected to favour the ambitious views of any individual. The right hon. baronet proceeded to quote various authorities, among others, the lord chancellor of Ireland and the master of the rolls, in support of his statement, that the public business of his office required every moment which an Irish master in chancery could by possibility devote to it. One master in chancery had stated, that the fees of his office had increased in the proportion of five and a half to one. But being asked whether there was a proportionate increase of business? he answered "Yes, where I was formerly employed for one hour, I am now employed four or five." The lord chancellor was of opinion, that all the witnesses in matters going before masters in chancery, ought to be examined, if it could be done without injury to public business, by the masters themselves, but this being found impossible, the examination devolved on other persons. He would add another piece of evidence which he held to be conclusive. On the examination of Mr. Ellis himself the following question was put to him:—"Can you state the particular time the duties of your office occupy?" Answer—"The duties of my office require a regular attendance for ten months in the year; and there is to be performed more or less business every day in the year, if attended to." Now then this officer declared that the duties of his office, if attended to,
126Sir J. Newport
ex post facto said, he entirely concurred with the right hon. baronet in his conclusion. If the office of master in chancery was not a judicial office, it yet so nearly pertained to a judicial office, that any time devoted to other avocations, to the injury of the business of suitors, would operate as an infraction of the duty of that office. The grounds on which a master of chancery in England sat in that House were different from those on which an Irish master in chancery could sit there. An English master in chancery might sit in that House without any inconvenience to suitors, and without the neglect of the duties of his office. He had no objection whatever, therefore, to the general principle laid down; but he understood that an election was now pending for the city of Dublin, in which a master in chancery was one of the candidates, and he thought that the clause proposed ought not to operate as an ex post factoLord Castlreagh
127 said, that if it was manifest that the duties of a master in chancery were incompatible with his attendance as a member of parliament, that officer ought not to be allowed to hold a seat in that House. Could any man doubt but that by his attendance in that House the duties of his office would be neglected? That officer was bound to attend ten months in the year in Dublin; he had sworn that it was necessary so to attend. Would any member attempt (if he took his seat in that House) to propose an address to the Crown to remove him? He saw no reason why the legislature in this instance should forego giving that protection to the suitors which they were clearly entitled to; he saw no reason why, in compliment to the officer in question, the business of the Court of Chancery should be delayed, or the suitors of that
127Sir John Newport
 said, that the clause proposed would operate as a great hardship on Mr. Ellis, who was at present a candidate for Dublin. The election would possibly be over before he could receive any information as to the proposed law. The hardship would be not merely on Mr. Ellis, but on the citizens of Dublin. The present contest was one of the most acrimonious and violent that had been remembered for a long time in that city. There was more of party spirit and personal hostility displayed than had been exhibited on any late contest. It would be a great misfortune to the electors if, after closing a contention of that kind, they should be driven to a new contest, which would possibly be carried on in the same way. Mr. Ellis, when he offered himself to the electors, had no notice of the clause now proposed; he thought, therefore, that he ought to be exempted.Mr. Shaw
ex post facto128 begged to call the attention of the House to the subject upon which they were about to legislate. It had nothing to do with the Dublin election, but was in plain terms whether or no parliament would continue to afford suitors in the Irish Court of Chancery that protection to which the law had entitled them. Nobody had ventured to state that the office of a master in chancery and a member of parliament were compatible. The very gentleman whose case was supposed to be involved in the present consideration had himself given conclusive testimony upon that point. He had declared that the business of his office required his full attendance for ten months in the year. Could any man after such a declaration, and with a consciousness of the importance of the duties of such an office, require an exception to be made in favour of a gentleman who had himself shown the impossibility of making it with any sense of justice? The hon. gentleman opposite had asked the House, on behalf of the citizens of Dublin, not to accede to this clause. If he asked that on behalf of the citizens of Dublin, he (Mr. Abercromby) would ask for the clause on behalf of the whole people of Ireland, who, if it did not pass, would be deprived of
ex post facto128Mr. Abercromby
 could not help remarking upon the observation that this clause, if passed, would be productive of great inconvenience to the citizens of Dublin, by exposing them to a repetition of an election contest. To this he would answer, that there was no necessity whatever of their being so exposed; for if the election was concluded in favour of the gentleman alluded to, he could take his seat, and obviate all the inconveniences by the resignation of his office as master in chancery. To give him the option was no hardship upon him; he Could either retain the seat or the office; he could not expect that he or any other public officer would be permitted to retain a situation the duties of which he could no longer perform.Sir M. W. Ridley
 begged to know from the noble lord, before he gave his vote, whether, if Mr. Ellis should be elected, the noble lord would advise his majesty to dismiss him from his office, as he had declared that it was incompetent for that officer at once to discharge the duties of his office and to sit in that House?Mr. Fowell Buxton
129 said, he understood his noble friend to say, that the instruction before the House ought not to have the effect of influencing the election now pending. If Mr. Ellis were elected, the effect of the instruction might be to negative the return. His noble friend did not say that a master in chancery should not be incompetent to sit or vote in parliament.
129Mr. Canning
 said, that the object of the clause was to prevent any person from being capable of sitting or voting in parliament so long as he continued to hold the office of master in chancery.Sir J. Newport
 said, that in that case there was no difference of opinion.Mr. Canning
 said, that the officer in question would not be allowed to sit or vote so long as he continued to hold his office.Sir J. Newport
—But the election will be good.Mr. Canning.
 said, that the effect of the instruction would be, to disqualify a gentleman from sitting in parliament, without any notice having been given to him of such a measure, and without any disqualifying law having previously existed. The object of the instruction, as explained by the right hon. baronet, was, to prevent Mr. Ellis from sitting or voting in that House [Cries of No, no!]. If he were wrong, he could be corrected, but he understood the resolution went to disqualify Mr. Ellis to sit or vote in that House, unless he gave up his office [Hear, hear!]. He would say that this was the first time pending an election of great expectation, that a measure was proposed in parliament to conclude that election. Was it the intention to dismiss Mr. Ellis, and to substitute Mr. Grattan in his place? Mr. Ellis was qualified in all respects to sit in that House. Extraordinary interest was excited at the election. Would the House disqualify an individual who might receive the favour of the citizens of Dublin? He considered such an act an outrage on the constitution, on fairness, and on candour.Sir George Hill
130 said, he was at a loss to think how gentlemen could reconcile to any respect for the constitution—to fairness—to candour, or to common sense, the idea of enabling a man to occupy two places, which by his own confession, were absolutely incompatible. It was said that parliament had not given notice to the learned gentleman of the present measure; true, but he had given notice to the parliament that he could not possibly sit in that House without neglecting his duties. The right hon. baronet had said that there was a novelty about the
130Sir James Mackintosh
 observed, that he understood there was but one opinion in the House, either as to the incompatibility of the two situations of master of chancery in Ireland and member of parliament, or as to the impropriety of disturbing an election now in progress. All that was desired was, that the individual now a candidate for the city of Dublin should beat liberty, if elected, to resign his office.Lord Castlereagh
131 suggested, that the object of the clause would be more precisely marked if the words of
131The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought that, although the right hon. gentleman's amendment might meet the circumstances of the case immediately in view, it would not provide a sufficient regulation for all future cases, in which the office in question was, to disqualify in the first instance.Mr. Calcraft
 also observed, that the pending election would probably have terminated before notice was received in Dublin of the present resolution of the House. It should therefore, be made applicable to future cases.Mr. Wynn
ex-post facto opposed it, because it appeared to him to be levelled at an individual. The right hon. baronet had thought proper, at the present moment, when it was probable the individual alluded to was actually a member of the House, to introduce a clause personally affecting that gentleman. He did not complain of the principle of the clause, but he thought that an ex-post factoColonel Barry
 defended the clause. Mr. Ellis knew that he could not perform the double duties of master in chancery and member of parliament; why, therefore, did he set up for the representation of the city of Dublin? The present clause was forced upon them by his own act.Sir J. Newport
ex-post fasto observed, that the bill which had passed this House last year, and was thrown out in the Lords, was without any such clause as that now proposed. This circumstance proved that it was an ex-post fastoMr. Daly
132 thought it would be a gross injustice to the suitors in chancery, if the same individual were allowed to act as master and member of parliament. The duties of a master in
132Dr. Phillimore
 said, that Mr. Ellis being a master in chancery, had taken an oath faithfully to perform the duties of his office, to do which, according to his own evidence, it was necessary that he should be in Dublin during ten months in the year. They should not, by allowing Mr. Ellis to retain the two situations, put him under the temptation of neglecting the duty of the one or the other, which no honourable man would wish to be subjected to. Besides, were they to forget the public in this case? A master in chancery had important duties to perform; the management of bankrupts' affairs, &c. which required attendance from day to day; so that every hour he was absent in England was injurious, and might be ruinous to the suitors. If no such bill was before the House, he thought one should have been introduced to protect the chancery suitors of Ireland.Dr. Lushington
ex post facto considered the clause an ex post factoMr. Nolan
 meant to vote for the clause, which did not disqualify this gentleman from sitting in the House of Commons, if that were his wish. According to his oath, he could not fulfil the duties of the two situations; and, therefore, it was necessary that one of them should be given up. If a precedent were allowed in this case, the four other masters might also be returned to serve in parliament, and thus the whole business of the court of chancery would be stopped.Mr. R. Martin
133 said, if this clause went to exclude Mr. Ellis from the court of chancery, or from the House of Com-
133Mr. Williams
lex post facto observed, that all the arguments had been addressed to the principle of the clause, and nothing had been said as to its being an lex post factoColonel Barry
 said, the gentleman alluded to had purchased the office, under a special notification from lord chancellor Ponsonby, who felt the impropriety of the purchase or sale of such situations, that it was intended to alter the system. With respect to the charge alleged against him for introducing this provision now, he could only say, that it had all along been his intention to propose it, whenever the bill arrived at its present stage. If the House felt it necessary to except Mr. Ellis from the operation of the clause, he hoped government would provide for him in some manner, so as to enable him to give up the situation of master in chancery, that the suitors might not be injured by his absence.Sir J. Newport
 said, that after Horne Tooke had been elected a member of that House, a bill had been passed which disqualified him.Mr. Martin
 observed, that none of the great disqualification acts were allowed to operate until the ensuing session of parliament.Mr. Nolan
134 said, a manifest distinction existed between the present
134Sir J. Mackintosh
 said, a seat in parliament was a trust, not an office. It was, therefore, a question between Mr. Ellis and his constituents, because the lord chancellor of Ireland would see that business of Mr. Ellis's office was attended to. If the House took upon it to legislate in the case of every person returned to the House who might not be able to attend, they would be obliged in consistency to exclude many of their members who were generals in the army, and had commands abroad, for instance at the Cape and in India, so that they could not attend at all.Mr. Wrottesley
 said, the learned gentlemen seemed to have forgotten that the office in question was one of permanent duty; whereas the avocations of the army and navy were not so. Officers were frequently enabled to attend to their duties in parliament, without interfering with professional matters; but Mr. Ellis's employment required attention from day to day. With respect to its being a mere question between his constituents and himself, he differed entirely from the learned gentleman. It did not follow, because his constituents were satisfied, that that House should also be satisfied; because there were important duties to be performed by that House which must be neglected if an individual resided in a distant part of the country.Mr. Baring
 supported the clause.Sir J. Yorke
135 said, that the argument of Mr. Wrottesley had not been answered. There was no effectual distinction between a command in the army
135Lord Palmerston
ex post facto maintained, that the clause proposed by his right hon. friend was not liable to any of the objections which applied to a retrospective or ex post factoMr. M. Fitzgerald
136 said, that he was an advocate for the principle of the clause, upon the ground that attendance in parliament was incompatible with the duties of an office which required almost perpetual attention in Ireland. He was, indeed, an advocate for the clause upon the same ground that the judges were excluded from that House, which was not because they were supposed dependent upon the Crown, but because, from the pressure of their judicial engagements, the two situations were incompatible. Still he thought that this clause should not be retrospective with regard to any masters in chancery which might be elected previous to the passing of the act. But should the gentleman alluded to be returned, it would, of course, be competent to any member of that House to move an address to the throne for his removal from the office which he held in the court of chancery, and upon that address being presented it would be difficult, he thought, for any minister, with that gentleman's own evidence before him, to hesitate about
136Lord Castlereagh
 supported the clause. The observations made on the other side, with regard to officers of the army and navy holding seats in that House, had, in his view, no analogy to the present case; for a seat in parliament was to such an officer but a secondary consideration, while a master in chancery, in becoming a member of that House, was but too likely to make that his primary object, through which, of course, his official business would be neglected.Mr. Abercromby
 assured the committee that he had no personal motive whatever on this occasion, as he had the greatest personal respect for Mr. Ellis, and as he had mentioned to a friend of his, then in the House, before the death of Mr. Grattan, that it was his intention to move the insertion of a clause of this nature in the bill under consideration.Sir J. Newport
 objected to the proposed attempt to defeat the wishes, and to interfere with the franchises of the people of Dublin. He called upon the committee to recollect the precedent in the case of Home Tooke, where the act excluding persons in holy orders from that House, specially provided for the exception of that gentleman during the existing parliament, on the ground that it should not be retrospective in its operation, although that act was actually brought forward in consequence of Mr. Tooke's election.Mr. Foster
 observed, that Mr. Tooke had no option, as he could not divest himself of his orders, and that he had no duty to perform elsewhere, by the neglect of which the public would suffer, while Mr. Ellis was in quite different circumstances, as he had a complete option.Mr. Macdonald
 remarked, that the object then was, to force Mr. Ellis to give up his office.Mr. Foster
 said, that Mr. Ellis had, by his own admission, such official business to discharge as rendered it impossible for him to attend his duty as a member of that House. Therefore, should that gentleman be returned, an address to the Crown ought to be voted for his removal from office, and if no other person would make the motion, he should himself feel it his duty to do so.Mr. R. Smith
 considered bounties given to Ireland in this way, as in the nature of a tax on the people of this country, and therefore he was generally opposed to such measures.Mr. Ricardo
 presented petitions from certain Trustees of Roads in Kent and Surrey against the Metropolis Roads bill. The hon. member hoped that the bill would be read a second time, printed, and allowed to stand over to next session.Mr. Sumner
 concurred in the view taken by Mr. Robinson, and hoped his hon. friend would withdraw the second resolution. He urged the propriety of allowing the same drawback on ashes used in bleaching in Scotland and England as was allowed in Ireland.Mr. Hume
 brought up the report of the committee on the Marriage Act Amendment bill. Dr. Lushington moved as an amendment, that the report be recommitted. Mr. Warren seconded the amendment. Dr. Dodson and Mr. D. Gilbert spoke in favour of the re-committal, and after a reply to their arguments from Dr. Phillimore, the House divided, when there appeared, For the reception of the Report, 47; Against it, 23: Majority, 24. The report was then received.Dr. Phillimore
 said, that every principle of justice required that the other parts of the empire should be put on the same footing, as to bounties, with Ireland.Mr. Huskisson
, after some observations in favour of the bill, recommended the adoption of a clause, substituting a definite punishment for that which this bill proposed to repeal, namely, confinement for some period not more than two years, or less than six months.Mr. Chetwynd
 regretted that this question should have been agitated in the present session.Sir G. Hill
 observed, that as this bill had been three times before the House, being twice carried in silence, and once with a majority of two to one in his favour, he could not be expected to offer any thing new upon the subject; but he felt it necessary to repeat, that nothing could be farther from his intention, than to cast the slightest imputation upon the judges, because he felt, from the conduct of those exalted magistrates, that no imputation could fairly attach, nor did he mean to take away from them any discretion but that which they never exercised. From the manner, then, in which the judges generally exercised their discretional power, he could not think it necessary to prescribe the limits recommended by his hon. friend.Sir J. Mackintosh
 felt persuaded, that the adoption of his hon. friend's amendment would not recommend this bill to a more gracious reception in the other House of Parliament.Sir J. Mackintosh
, in rising to move the committal of the Privately Stealing in Shops bill, said, he should make no observations in the present state of the measure, but reserve himself for the committee, which, after the admission of the principle by the House, was the proper place for the discussion of any objections which might be made to the several clauses. He hoped that any objections which might be entertained to any part of the bill, would be brought forward in the committee, in order that he might have a convenient opportunity of answering them, and not be postponed to any subsequent stage. Upon this, indeed, he was induced to calculate, as he had so often deferred the progress of the bill, at the request and for the accommodation of those gentlemen who were understood to entertain some doubts upon the subject.Sir J. Mackintosh
 observed, that as the hon. and learned gentleman avowedly took up these measures in imitation of the example of sir Samuel Romilly, he ought to recollect the fate of that gentleman's propositions in the other House, and not to pursue a course on this occasion, which, however creditable to his heart, did not appear creditable to his head.Sir J. Yorke
l wished to know, whether the committee intended to propose any remedy of the grievance which was felt in the renewal of turnpike trusts, even for a limited period. The expense of such a proceeding amounted at present to 112lSir M. W. Ridley
142
142Mr. Wodehouse
 objected to the bill, as he thought the volunteers to the number of 800 wholly needless.Mr. Bernal
143 said, that this was the first time he bad heard that any troops had been in the city on Friday last. He had
143Sir W. Curtis
 observed, that he felt called upon to set the House and the country right regarding the soldiery in the city. Certain it was that a considerable body of life-guards had been called out on Friday last, and perhaps their horses heads might be in the city, and their tails out of it: one of them, fully armed, had come to Guildhall for orders; and the lord mayor had avowed that the military were summoned by his orders. It was not easy to see any necessity for such a proceeding, since no breach of the peace had been committed or contemplated: the meeting was most unanimous, and nothing was more unlikely than a disturbance.Mr. Alderman Wood
 said, that he held in his hand a printed petition presented on a former day by an hon. gentleman complaining of the conduct of three magistrates of Carlisle: he wished to know what course the hon. gentleman intended to pursue, as the individuals concerned were very reluctant that such unfounded calumnies should go forth without the means of refuting them. His lordship hoped that the subject would not be postponed until the next session.Lord Lowther
 regretted that the question was to be postponed, as the accusations were perfectly groundless and unjust.Lord Lowther
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.145l.l.144 said, that in calling the attention of the committee to the message of his majesty, he was happy to state that the votes, seven in number, which he had to propose, were such as would meet with the unanimous concurrence of the
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.145l.l.144Lord Castlereagh
150149 said, he was sure that the surprise of the House would have been much greater than that expressed by the noble lord, if ministers had comedown and proposed a settlement for her majesty, considering the situation in which she at present stood. The noble lord had made three distinct charges against ministers—1st, they were charged with not providing funds sufficient to enable her majesty to enter on her defence; next, with having committed a breach of the law, in granting sums of money not sanctioned by parliament; and, lastly, with having neglected to make a proposition to parliament relative to a provision for her majesty, it having been notified that such a proposition would be submitted to the House. Now, with respect to any practical inconvenience connected with the first point, he could assure the House that every means had been taken to obviate it. Every care had been taken to prevent any personal inconvenience which might be likely to affect her majesty. Provision had been made to meet any particular expense which the queen might incur in consequence of the pending inquiry. That was a point which he could assure the noble lord had neither escaped the king, nor been lost sight of by his ministers. It had been specifically notified to her majesty that every means would be afforded to her
150149Lord Castlereagh
 observed, that provision would not only be made for the usual support of her majesty, but that a sum would also be granted to meet any expenses that might arise during the pending investigation. Her majesty was provided for by the vote of that House up to the 5th of July, and it would be time enough for the noble lord to complain when he found ministers disbursing the public money without any legal authority.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that on the part of the Crown every thing would be done to facilitate her majesty's proceedings; and, with respect to the foreign powers, they would, he conceived, feel it to be a point of character to give her every assistance in their power.Lord Castlereagh
 said, he was not prepared to answer the question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that he did not know, and it was not his duty to know whether such a paper existed.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
154 ob-
154The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to know from whom he was to receive official information upon this subject, if not from the chancellor of the exchequer.Mr. Bernal
 assured the hon. gentleman, that no part of the personal property of the his late majesty had come under the cognizance of that part of the government connected with the Treasury.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought that if this subject appeared to be involved in any mystery or intrigue, a strong sensation would be excited in the country. If the exaggerated estimates had gone abroad as to the amount of the property left by his late majesty; that circumstance was itself calculated to excite the public attention, which would probably be increased after the conversation which had taken place upon the subject. If the right hon. gentleman did not wish to give any distinct information, he might at least state some reason which rendered it inconvenient to be more explicit.Mr. Baring
155 re-
155The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that information was extracted from the right hon. gentleman, like a bad cork from a bottle of brandy.Mr. Bernal
in limine said, that an objection in limineThe Attorney-General
 was of opinion, that in the cases which had been pointed at, it might be very important to the parties to possess the right of moving for a new trial. He therefore could not consent to adopt the clause. He explained and justified the increased amount of law charges for the last year, and proceeded to show that the statement recently made by the late member for Colchester receiving briefs and counsel being paid for all prosecutions throughout the country whether they attended them or not was erroneous.The Attorney General
l.158 observed, that he did not know upon what grounds the hon. member had come forward with so much zeal to attack the coronation, if it were not on the ground of the expense by which it would be attended; and upon that point he was happy to inform him that it would be much less than had been originally expected. With regard to the argument which the hon. member had built upon the unfortunate differences now existing between their majesties, he felt himself compelled to to say, that his majesty's rights were not to be impaired either by the absence or the presence of the queen on this occasion; for the coronation was not a grand gala, or national jubilee, as the hon. member had represented it, but a ceremony whereby the king ratified the compact which existed between himself and his people; and therefore was a ceremony which ought not to be delayed. His majesty's ministers deserved no blame on account of the period at which the coronation was to take place, as it had been fixed at the usual period after the death of the pre-
l.158Lord Castlereagh
160l.l.l.159 apprehended that at present there were circumstances of so pecular a nature, both with respect to the situation of the queen-consort, and the State of the public finances, that ministers themselves must believe they would best discharge their duty by advising that this ceremony should be delayed. There was, in fact, no necessity for a coronation at all, and he believed it would be found, on referring to the history of this country, that many kings had reigned for a considerable time without having gone through that ceremony. If then, there was no necessity for his majesty's being crowned, it became a question whether or not, at the present moment, it was expedient. His hon. friend had stated, that while the trial of her majesty was going on, it was improper that there should be a public solemnity in which she could take no part. In this opinion he entirely concurred; and he also agreed with his hon. friend in thinking that it would be imprudent to rouse and provoke the feelings of the people of this country, at a time when they would be in a high state of excitation. He would appeal to the noble lord himself whether it was not impolitic to offer this additional excitement to public feeling at a time when the noble lord must know, from the addresses that were presented to her majesty, what the opinion of the people was respecting the treatment which she had received; and when he must also know, if he at all looked forward to futurity, that these feelings would hereafter become stronger than they were at present. But there was still another objec-
160l.l.l.159Dr. Lushington
161 expressed his surprise at the observations of the hon. and learned gentleman, as he had allowed the subject to sleep so long unnoticed. The hon and learned gentleman knew of it long ago from the king's proclamation. He had, however, chosen to wait until a considerable expence had been incurred, and when the question was, not so much whether the public money should be paid, but whether the tradesmen who had been employed should be honourably paid? He wished the hon. and learned gentleman to consider, whether or not when the complaint from many parts of the country was of a want of employment, the occurrence of such a great public solemnity as that in contemplation was peculiarly desirable, giving work as it must to many branches of the unoccupied? The hon. and learned gentleman must know that the sum voted from the public purse would form but a small part of the money that would be expended on the occasion. He must know that the expence to which the higher classes of so-
161The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that what he had stated was, that the distress of the country was occasioned by the extravagance of ministers.Dr. Lushington
162 continued. He would say no more on that point. With respect to the coronation of his majesty, he begged to observe that the period when that ceremony should take place, was fixed long before the arrival of the queen. The period having
162The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was of opinion, that the period fixed for his majesty's coronation was a most inconvenient one. Irritated as the public mind now was, it might be productive not only of disorder and riot, but of bloodshed. Why, then, should his majesty's advisers propose such a proceeding at this moment? It was not indispensably necessary that his majesty should be crowned immediately. His late majesty was not crowned until 13 months after his accession. He thought, therefore, that as there was no other mode of repressing tumult on this occasion than by calling out an extraordinary number of the military, the danger likely to arise had better be avoided by postponing the coronation for the present.Colonel Davies
163 said, the hon. gentleman had accused his side of the House for not having taken an earlier opportunity of opposing the coronation at the period proposed. But who was it that proposed that coronation—who was it that directed the erection of the works for it? It was his majesty's ministers, not the opposition, as neither he nor his friends had any opportunity of speaking on the subject until it came fairly before the House. He could not help feeling, that nothing was more likely to excite public indignation, than to find, that while one House was agitating a bill of pains and penalties against her majesty, the other was employed in voting a sum of money to be expended in the pageantry and show of the coronation of the king. Historians had remarked, that in the reign of Henry 8th, the public mind had been much agitated, while proceedings were pending against the queen
163Mr. Bennet
164 said, he rose principally to make a few observations, which were drawn from him by the extraordinary and unmeaning rant of the hon. and learned doctor, who had worked himself into a most violent passion, and had belaboured his majesty's ministers most unmercifully; but if there was any foundation for that harangue, the hon. and learned doctor had been lamentably remiss in his duty in not calling them to account long ago. He ought to have objected to the first step taken in preparing for the coronation; he had not however done so, and therefore the learned doctor was wrong in now objecting to the expenses necessary to carry that object into effect. It was objected that so large a sum should be expended in the mere pageantry of a coronation, and that too while a bill of pains and penalties was pending against her majesty. He denied that the coronation was a pageantry. Let the hon. member look to the preamble to the act of king William, and he would find that the coronation was any thing but a parade. The king was bound to take certain oaths, and it would be a fault in ministers to delay his majesty's doing so. The hon. member then read the oath which his majesty was bound to take, "that he was bound to govern the country according to the statutes; that he should administer justice in mercy; that he would maintain the religion of the country as by law established, &c." Would the House, after this, say that the coronation was a matter of choice? He maintained it was matter of law, and could not be dispensed with [Hear, hear!]. This being the case, bow could ministers have justified themselves in advising the postponement of so important a measure? Next came the objection in point of time. He remembered, that six months since, a great objection was, that it was to take place in the dog-days: however this might be, he was sure that Christmas would be found a much more inconvenient period. The public curiosity would naturally be excited on the occasion, and ministers would undergo no small portion of blame, if a period was fixed when the ceremony of
164Mr. Robinson
165| | concurred with his hon. friends as to the unfitness of the period chosen for the coronation; but with regard to the expense, he could not think that there would be any man in the country whose feelings would be shocked by it. The estimate was certainly far less than he had anticipated. Although it was undoubtedly of extreme importance that the king should be crowned soon after his accession, yet he could not see that a delay of 6, of 12, or of 18 months even, was material. He thought, also, that the ceremony should be performed with great solemnity; but he repeated that he could not see the necessity of being particular as to the precise period of the event. Pending the present proceedings with regard to her majesty, however, the celebration of that solemnity was likely to be not only unpleasant to the feelings of the people, but to have a very injurious effect upon the minds of many. If her majesty were declared innocent, every person would say, notwithstanding that it might be the right of the Crown to determine whether or no she should be
165| |Mr. Baring
151 observed, that the noble lord had treated him with much unfairness, and the House with still more. In the first place, every gentleman would do him the justice to acknowledge his having stated in the outset, that if the noble lord meant, in the present session, to move for an allowance to her majesty, he would say nothing more on the subject. The noble lord, however, had told them that her majesty had been provided for until the 5th of July. He would now ask the noble lord how her majesty was to be provided for after that period? and in answer to the triumph of the noble lord, he would observe, that, had he postponed the statement which he had that night
151Lord A. Hamilton
148147l.146 was extremely surprised that the noble lord had wholly omitted to mention any provision for the queen. He had, more than once, when
148147l.146Lord Archibald Hamilton
l. thought that if the various articles likely to be consumed at the coronation could be bought cheaper in the foreign than the home market, there could be no objection to their not being home manufacture, seeing that they must be purchased by the produce of our own industry.l.Mr. Ricardo
 thought that the clause proposed would be more properly made the subject of a specific measure.Mr. G. Bankes
 stated the nature of their establishment under the auspices of the East India company, as well as their probable duties in cases of necessity. He also referred to certain pending discussions on the subject, and to the length of time during which the corps had existed.Mr. Canning
 gave notice of his intention on a future day to strike out the clause in the bill relating to the payment of the men. He suggested that any discussion would be more conveniently taken on the third reading.Mr. Canning
l.l.l.152 said, it was perfectly true, that he did state that he would not agree to any permanent vote for her majesty, until the charges alleged against her were cleared up. When her majesty's name was omitted in the Liturgy, he had declared that if her conduct was such as to justify that measure, he would vote against any grant that should be proposed. He was a little surprised, however, at the course the noble lord was now pursuing, because, if he understood him correctly, he had stated that he would, whenever the provision for the royal family was brought before the House, take some notice of her majesty's situation. It appeared to him that her majesty was treated in the most extraordinary way, no provision of any kind having been made for her. The noble lord had stated very truly, that no member of that House could bring such a question forward of his own motion, but that it must be done by a message from the Crown. He knew that there must be a message on the subject; but he supposed no intention existed to make the necessary provision for her majesty [Lord Castlereagh here intimated across the table that such an intention did exist]. He was very happy to find that a proper sum of money would be allowed
l.l.l.152Mr. Tierney
 repeated the question, and asked, in case of the non-existence of such a document, what had become of that property?Mr. Tierney
 thought it very important to ascertain whether his majesty had died intestate, or if any paper amounting to a will had been found, what measures had been taken with respect to the disposition of the personal property of his late majesty.Mr. Tierney
166 said, that as to the vote to be proposed, he was not aware that he should have any thing to object on that account. He was no enemy, on some occasions, to pageants, and, least of all, to such a pageant as the one in question. But he regretted that it was determined that the coronation should take place upon the 1st of August. He sincerely lamented that his majesty should have been advised to come to such a resolution. After the steps, however, which had been taken, after the official letters that had been addressed to all parties concerned, it was hardly, perhaps, to be expected, that his majesty should stop short in the transaction. He did not, at the same time, think that there were ten gentlemen in the House who would not thank him, if he could devise any means by which the celebration of the coronation could be farther deferred. Now, after the arrival of her majesty in this country, he did own that he had hoped the propriety and necessity of such a postponement would have been felt and acted upon. He should be liable to a great deal of misunderstanding, if he were to state all that he apprehended as likely to result from the coronation so speedily taking place. The general opinion was that her majesty had been oppressed. He did not here mean to say a word as to the opinion of her innocence or guilt; yet it could not be contended for a moment but that this opinion of her being oppressed was the general feeling; and the one which pervaded not only the lower classes, but the higher ranks of so-
166Mr. Tierney
primâ facie said, that as part of the property, which was primâ facieMr. J. P. Grant
 wished to ask the chancellor of the exchequer whether he would have any objection to state, upon a motion being made, what steps had been taken by ministers to ascertain whether his late majesty had left a will, and what part of his personal property was likely to accrue to the public.Mr. Hume
 contended, that if his late majesty had died intestate, his property was no longer private but public; and if public, it was the duty of the House to ascertain, especially in the 'present distressed state of the country, in what manner it had been disposed of.Mr. Hume
 said, that when he put a similar question to the chancellor of the exchequer upon a former occasion, the right hon. gentleman was certainly understood to have stated distinctly that a will did exist. If his late majesty had died intestate, it was proper that the House should know what had become of the money vested by acts of parliament under commissions, before they proceeded to grant sums of money to any part of the royal family. He trusted that some honourable member would take an early opportunity of making a motion upon the subject.Mr. Hume
 expressed his regret that so strong a disposition prevailed upon all occasions by the civil power to call in the aid of the military. This step had been taken on Friday last within the city of London, when, as far as he could learn, not the slightest necessity existed. This was a most dangerous practice; he hoped that England would not be changed entirely, but that the civil power now, as formerly, would be paramount. On the occasion to which he referred, a legally established body had met for legal purposes, and yet something like an attempt was made to overawe it by the presence of a military force. It was the duty of magistrates upon all occasions, as far as possible, to avoid calling in the aid of the soldiers, and then the civil power would be both obeyed and respected.Mr. Hume
 added, that troops were stationed in Holborn, half of which was within and half without the limits of the city.Mr. Hume
157 rose to make a few observations upon a subject which the right hon. gentleman was going to introduce to their notice—he meant the expense of the ensuing Coronation. As yet there had not been placed upon their table any estimate of the sums of money which would be required for such a ceremony; and till such an estimate was presented to them, he for one, would not grant a single farthing for it. Indeed, it was his opinion, that, under the present circumstances of the country, no coronation ought to take place: for let honorable members consider—and if they did not consider, the public would consider for them—the situation to which that House was at present reduced. A green bag had been submitted as well to its notice as to the notice of the other House of Parliament. The other House had proceeded so far in the investigation of the contents of that bag as to render it extremely probable that a bill would be immediately introduced to expose her majesty the queen to the utmost disgrace and infamy. The House of Commons had, however, refused to enter with similar speed into a similar investigation; and yet, notwithstanding that circumstance, ministers, who knew well that that bag was lying on their table unopened, and that proceedings might arise from the opening of it which could only be terminated in another place—ministers had dared to come down, and to ask for a large grant of money to be expended in a grand gala, a great national jubilee, whilst the queen of the country was labouring under the most heavy and grievous accusations. If the laws of the land had prescribed any particular period, after the demise of one monarch and the accession of another, within which this ceremony of coronation was necessarily to take place, then, however painful the circumstances attending it might be, he should have said, let it take place within that period. But no such limitation existed, and therefore, under existing circumstances, it was most improper that it should be held at the time which was now fixed for it. Indeed, his majesty would be most imprudently advised if he did not postpone it until the conclusion of this investigation If there
157Mr. Creevey
153 wished to observe, that this question was brought before the committee, without her majesty's knowledge. She had given no directions whatsoever on the subject; she had no possible doubt that all necessary means for defending her rights and asserting her character would be afforded her from some quarter or other. It was, however, fit that the House should understand that the expenses would necessarily be very considerable. There was, however, another object much nearer to
153Mr. Denman
 said, it was not his intention to prejudge the guilt or innocence of her majesty, but he thought it would be derogatory from the dignity of the crown to refuse the sum proposed to defray the expenses of his majesty's coronation. It was rather odd that those gentlemen who had now objected to this ceremony, had not, on any former occasion, signified their disapprobation of its taking place at the time proposed. Any objection on that head ought to have been made at an earlier period.Mr. T. Wilson
 answered, that early in the next session he designed to bring the subject forward, and that his motion would then be, that the three magistrates who had called in the military under pretence of quelling a riot, when not the slightest disturbance existed, should be called to the bar of the House.Mr. James
 would ask the right hon. gentleman, if he really believed that the king, after he had taken the coronation oath would be more or less bound to reign according to law than he was after he had taken the oath before the privy council? Could it be said that he was at any future period to be absolved from any of his regal functions because he had not taken a coronation oath? As to those splendid ceremonies, of which the chancellor of the exchequer had spoken as calculated to support the dignity of the Crown, he conceived that they were—"more honoured in the breach than in the observance." He appealed to every hon. gentleman, whether it was not his opinion that the feelings of the country were more in favour of economy than of the most splendid public exhibition. He had hitherto purposely abstained from saying any thing on the question of the queen; and if he were now to speak his sentiments, he apprehended they would not please either side of the House. He thought that the propriety or impropriety of having a coronation while proceedings were going on against her majesty, was merely a matter of feeling; but it was a matter that came home to the mind and bosom of every person.Mr. W. Smith
 observed, that in offences against the revenue not a single instance of a new trial had occurred in the last year.Mr. Chetwynd
 said, it was his intention to propose three additional clauses to this bill. The first of them was, to enable judges to pass sentence upon defendants at Nisi Prius, instead of bringing them up to the court of King's Bench.Mr. Chetwynd
 hoped, that should the coronation take place, a due regard would be paid to the encouragement of British manufacture. The article of velvet particularly ought to be encouraged on this occasion. It was true that English velvet could not compete with that of Genoa, yet it was equally handsome in appearance. This might appear a trifling consideration, but he hoped it would not be forgotten by his majesty's advisers.Sir M. W. Ridley
 wished to ask the chancellor of the exchequer, whether his late majesty had left a will, or, if he had died intestate, in what manner his personal property had been disposed of?Sir J. Newport
 was anxious to occupy as short a portion as possible of the time of the Committee' in stating the grounds of his objection to most of the resolutions of the hon. gentleman. His first resolution was unnecessary, since one to a similar effect had been voted in the last year. The second resolution was unfit to appear on the Journals of the House, in consequence of a material error which affected the calculations of the hon. gentleman. The hon. gentleman had compared the revenue of the last year with that of 1796. Now, in the revenue for 1796, the whole expense of collecting the post-horse duties was omitted; and it was obvious that this omission must have a material effect upon the whole calculations. No results could be accurate which were founded upon a comparison of the revenue in a year of peace with that in a year of war. Besides, upon a more accurate examination of his figures, the hon. gentleman would find that he had a material error in his calculation of the percentage. He had, in fact, taken one line of figures for another, and as this error vitiated the whole calculations, a proposition founded upon them was unfit to appear upon the Journals. To his third resolution he was ready to accede, but he thought it right that it should be accompanied by another resolution which he should submit to the House. With respect to the other resolutions of the hon. gentleman, if he sucMr. Lushington
190 observed, that there was no unwillingness in the House to attend to a subject which was so materially connected with the public interest. The hon. mover had laid before them a number of comparative statements, which the secretary of the Treasury had answered. The collection of the revenue in different countries had been adverted to; but that was not a fair criterion for the direction of the House. It was observed, that the collection of the revenue in France was more economical, than in Ireland; but as the revenue of France was principally a land revenue, it was evidently more easy to collect it than to gather in the revenue of Ireland, which comprised many different heads. An hon. gentleman seemed to reprehend the office of distributor of stamps and receiver-general of land-tax as being sources of permanent influence, and kept up for that purpose. This he entirely denied. The system had been acted on for many years, and had been found to operate beneficially. The receivers of land-tax, and the distributors of stamps, did not realise so much emolument as was imagined. They had often had reason to repent the frauds which had been practised on them without any blame being attachable to them. The balances in the hands of receivers-general and distributors of stamps were very doubtful. Though the nominal amount might be great, yet the real amount, in consequence of the number of persons employed under them, was often reduced to a very small sum.190The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l. expressed his conviction, that the House would agree with him in thinking that no inquiry should be entered into with respect to the private affairs of the royal family, unless under circumstances of imperious necessity: and as no such reason could be adduced in this case, he trusted the House would see that the hon. member's motion was unnecessary, especially after the explanation which he had to otter. Since the death of the king, a testamentary document had been found among his majesty's papers, and the subject had been referred to the consideration of competent persons, who had not yet made their report. But whatever the decision of those persons might be, there was no question whatever that the property of the late king devolved upon his present majesty. But as to the amount of that property, the hon. mover had been very much misled, for that property comprehended about 90,000l.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.194 said, that be could not feel himself at liberty to answer any questions affecting the private affairs of the Crown, without special authority. It appeared, however, that the hon. mover, as
l.194Lord Castlereagh
189l.l.l.188 returned his sincere thanks to the hon. mover for having brought his proposition before the House. He had seldom heard a more clear and dispassion-ate statement, or one evincing greater re-search. He felt, however, the same des-pair on the subject as his hon. friend who had just sat down. The manner in which the hon. gentleman's proposition had been received, was very discouraging in this respect; and he was also discouraged by his own experience when he was a young man, and began to work on the subject of re-venue. When such resolutions were i moved as those proposed this evening, it; had been usual to have them printed, and for the Treasury to move counter-resolutions, which being also printed, a day was fixed for the discussion of both. That, however, was not the course pursued. The first of the hon. mover's resolutions was to be negatived, and in lieu of it the hon. secretary of the Treasury moved at once a resolution, that so much had been done in the way of retrenchment, that it was only necessary to persevere. He strongly reprobated the recent practice of referring the consideration of the finances to a committee of persons appointed by the Treasury. He agreed with his hon. friend near him that at bottom all the abuses on this subject were attributable to influence; and that nothing could make an administration more popular, than fairly and firmly to set about correcting it. But he was
189l.l.l.188Mr. Tierney
 thought the first resolution the best. In the present state of the finances of the country, he was persuaded that-no man could quit the House without a wound to his conscience who did not vote for it. He had been very sorry therefore to hear the hon. secretary object to it. In Ireland among other misgovernments, the collection of the revenue was made a job; the consequence of which was, that the charge amounted to 16 per cent on the nett revenue, and 22 per cent on the gross revenue. He was one of those who thought that the whole subject of the revenue and the expenditure of the country ought to come once more under the cognizance of parliament. He had a great respect for the members of the former committees of that House on the subject, but he must say, that in some respects they had strained at a gnat and swallowed a camel. The collection of the Customs was especially expensive. He had a friend high in the Custom house, who was well acquainted with all the details, and who had told him that he would be very glad to farm the collection at one-fifth of the present charge. Much was lost to the country by the large balances which were unnecessarily left in the hands of the receivers of the land tax. The great evil was, that the government was a government depending on influence; and that ministers were afraid to retrench lest they should lose their influence. He was persuaded, however, that if they would apply economy as a principle pervading every branch of the state, they would soon obtain more real power and popularity than by the distribution of any places which they now had it in their power to give.Mr. John Smith
l.l.l.181ll.l.l.180l.l.l.179l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.ds.l.d.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.178l.l.l.l.177d.s.l.d.s.l.d..sl. said, in rising to make the motion of which he had given notice, he was actuated by no hostile feeling to his majesty's ministers, who, by granting the accounts for which he had moved, had shown a disposition to admit discussion and to court inquiry. Though his own calculation differed from the official accounts in some respects, he preferred adopting the latter in all cases, to avoid any controversy on that head. The first resolution which he had to submit was merely to pledge the House to a vigilant superintendence of the public expenditure, and to a minute investigation of the mode of collecting the revenue. This, in substance, though not in form, was similar to the resolution proposed by the chancellor of the Exchequer, when he had called on the House to impose three millions of new taxes. He hoped the House would now repeat this pledge, as it was by small savings on the multiplied items of expenditure alone that economy could be effected. He could have only wished that this subject had been brought forward by an hon. baronet, who had proposed similar resolutions in the last session, and from whom they would have come with greater weight. The second resolution was a comparison of the expenses of collection of the revenue at three different times. The account of the expense at the first period was taken from the Reports of the Finance Committee, of which the late Speaker was chairman (1796–7); of the second, from the Report of the Committee, of which the member for Corfe-castle was chairman; and of the third, from the annual accounts presented to the House. The third resolution was a comparison of the nett amount of the revenue at three different periods, taken from the same sources. As the gross receipt of this revenue had been, in 1796, twenty-three millions; in 1810, forty-five millions; and in 1820, fifty five millions, it was to be expected, he thought, that the amount having much increased while the officers and boards of the revenue remained the same, the percentage should have been diminished more than it appeared it had been. The rate per cent-age on the gross receipt in the year 1796 was 5l.l.l.181ll.l.l.180l.l.l.179l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.ds.l.d.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.178l.l.l.l.177d.s.l.d.s.l.d..sl.Mr. Hume
 said, that after the explanation which the House had heard, he had no objection to withdraw his motion, declaring that he should not have brought it forward if it were not for the refusal of the noble lord to make any answer to the question which was put to him last night. It would be admitted, however, that the motion would produce a satisfactory result, by doing away with the exaggerated reports which had gone abroad respecting the amount of the private property of the late king.Mr. Hume
193l.l.l.l.l.192l.191 said, that the motion which he was about to introduce to the House was one most worthy of their serious consideration, as it related to the private property left by his late majesty. He then proceeded to explain how the law
193l.l.l.l.l.192l.191Mr. Hume
187l. reprobated the large allowance made to distributors of stamps. He knew one who received 4,000187l.Mr. W. Smith
l.l.l.l.186 maintained that the cir-
l.l.l.l.186Sir H. Parnell
220s.s.d. said the practice with respect to the imposition of the duty on malt had not been entirely uniform; for in 1713, six years after the Union, 6220s.s.d.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 could not agree that there should be no deviation from the old proportion of the duties in the two countries, though he wished the duty to be somewhat lower in Scotland than in England.Mr. Fergusson
 said, that if the agriculture of Scotland had improved, it was owing to a very spirited expenditure of capital in that country, and not to any cause connected with the taxes. Formerly, much encouragement was given to the establishment of small legal distilleries. The act for that purpose passed parliament four or five years ago, and produced the most beneficial effects. But since the act of July last, that encouragement was entirely taken away, and the consequence was that the revenue was very much diminished by the number of smugglers. He put it to the right hon. gentleman, whether it would not be for the benefit of the country, even with a view to revenue, to allow the occupiers of land to distil the corn grown within their own lands.Mr. Kennedy
d. said, he should inform the noble lord what he intended to do, that the noble lord might know how far his motion was rendered unnecessary. He should propose a temporary allowance of 6d.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 had no objection to the bill being brought in and printed, but he wished it to be fully understood, that it was not a bill interfering with the general commutation of tithes, but a counterpart of a bill which passed the House in 1817, but which was thrown out in another House.Lord Castlereagh
 bore testimony to the oppression practised by tithe proctors in Ireland, and to the general approbation of the clergy of the measure proposed.Mr. M. Fitzgerald
l.l.225l.l.l.l.224l.l.l.l.l. stated, that when he yesterday submitted to the House a resolution founded upon the king's message, relative to a provision being made by parliament for the other branches of the royal family, he had stated the general nature of the resolutions which he should this evening have the honour to propose to their notice. This would render it unnecessary for him to do any thing more than repeat the general principles upon which it was founded. The House were already aware that upon the demise of the queen a reduction of nearly 180,000l.l.225l.l.l.l.224l.l.l.l.l.Lord Castlereagh
226 observed, that if the House consented to grant these sums in their present shape, they would establish a precedent which would lead them an indefinite length in the way of example on every demise of the Crown. Though unwilling to object to the whole of the resolutions, he could not bring himself to vote for them as they stood at present, for many reasons:—first of all, because he found that a proper scale of compensation had not been adopted in the provision proposed, a person of 35 years of age being often placed in the same situation as a person of 65 years, who had spent half his life in his majesty's service: secondly, because many of the individuals to whom he alluded were not retiring on half pay, but were receiving their full salaries and allowances when they were performing no services, and were thus adding an additional and unexpected burden to those which already pressed upon the country: thirdly, because they were able to discharge other offices, and thus might be provided for in another manner. Indeed, he could not help observing that until the present time no one had ever beard of these charges on the privy purse.
226Mr. Bankes
 said, in the present stage of the proceeding he should certainly not oppose it. He should, however, reserve to himself the privilege of examining its provisions carefully in a more advanced stage.Mr. C. Grant
229 observed, that, with a limited pension-list, however much it was to be regretted, it was still evident that circumstances would arise which rendered an application to the liberality of parliament absolutely necessary. He thought the circumstances of the present case fully justified him in appealing to it, notwithstanding the objection by which he had been met, that if this precedent were established, others would be defended upon it He could not see into futurity; but as the present circumstances were so very extraordinary, he thought it would be still more extraordinary if similar circumstances should again occur. In proposing the present pensions, they had by no means continued the late salaries, because the persons who held them had along with them board wages, and many other emoluments. The pages of the back stairs were particularly entitled to the pensions which it was proposed to grant, as they had been employed about the person of his late majesty till his demise, and, to their honour be it spoken, no anecdotes derogatory to his dignity or
229The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 enforced Mr. Hume's view of the proposed grants, thinking that according to the precedent referred to by the noble lord, they ought to be reduced at least one-fifth.Mr. Williams
 asked, whether it was the intention of the noble lord to keep the order which was fixed for Friday in abeyance, until the lords should pronounce their decision upon the subject? If such were the noble lord's intention, it would be a very uncommon course of proceeding.Sir J. Newport
 observed, that the proceeding instituted by the lords might never be brought in any legislative way before that House, and, therefore, he proposed only that the order for considering his majesty's message should be delayed, but that the House should by no means abandon its right of inquiry upon the subject.Lord Castlereagh
 hoped the House would not agree to the course proposed by the noble lord. If no other member would take the sense of the House upon the subject, he should feel it his duty to do so.Sir M. W. Ridley
s.d.s.219 said, that this concession was so inferior to what the people of Scotland considered as due to them, that he should persist in his motion. The grounds on which he objected to the tax lately imposed on Scots malt were three. I, That it had been the practice for more than a century to impose on Scots malt only half the duty that was imposed on malt in England; 2, that a less tax had been generally imposed on beer or big than on barley malt; and 3, that the tax was passed at an improper time and in an unfair manner—in the last week of the last session, when scarcely any Scots members were present, or knew of the bill. The effect of the increased duty had been such in Scotland, that the distilleries could no longer work except at a loss. The fact was, very few of the great distilleries had worked during the last twelve months, and those only were satisfied with the duty as it at present stood who found means of defrauding the revenue. It seemed probable, indeed, that this in-crease of duty on Scots malt had originated in some mistake, for a letter
s.d.s.219Lord A. Hamilton
 said, that the only point on which he meant to divide the House was this, that the existing duties were too heavy.Lord A. Hamilton
 having risen to make his motion respecting the Tax on Malt in Scotland,Lord A. Hamilton
221 said, that from the variableness of the climate in Scotland, it frequently happened that a great part of the corn was damaged before it could be got in, and was rendered unfit for consumption in any way except in the way of distillation. But when the duty on all kinds of grain was the same, it acted to
221Mr. Boswell
217 thought that the grievance complained of could not be expressed in too strong language, and objected parti-
217Mr. Harbord
223 explained the object of the bill which he had supported in 1817,
223Mr. Lockhart
l.l.l.l.227l.l. said, the noble lord had Stated that there was no precedent for continuing the salaries and pensions to the servants of the king after the death of their illustrious master; and yet he had called upon the House to imitate the precedent of 1819, which he had defended by three others, and from which it appeared that it was usual to continue such salaries to the servants of a deceased queen. He also called upon the House to imitate it: for they would recollect that a committee had then sat and had recommended the scale of pensions which the House had afterwards adopted. If the noble lord would look to one of the documents then presented to the House, he would see that the committee had stated, that there were two classes of servants to be rewarded. In the first class no individual was admitted who had not been in the service of her majesty for 8 years at least. The salaries of the servants in this class amounted to 5,721l.l.l.l.227l.l.Mr. Hume
 brought up the report of the committee appointed to inquire into the possibility of Steam Engines consuming their own smoke. He said that the object of the inquiry had been completely answered, and he trusted that, ere long, the metropolis would be freed from the nuisance to which it had been long subject. He intended in the next session to introduce a bill, to declare the law upon the subject, and to prevent those nuisances from being longer continued.Mr. M. A. Taylor
 did not deny the existence of the grievance complained of, but thought it might be easily remedied. The Norwich sessions might be empowered to try those prisoners who had been confined for any length of time; or the prisoners might be removed to the town of Thetford, there to undergo their trial. He saw no reason why a short bill should not be introduced to this effect.Mr. Colborne
 observed, that the bill of 1817 seemed not to be looked on by the church, generally speaking, with alarm, as might be proved from its not having been opposed by the bishops. It was solely rejected on the ground of its being brought forward so late in the session.Mr. Newman
l.l. stated, that according to the recommendation of a committee upon the subject, there was a compensation granted to the queen's servants in lieu of perquisites, in addition to the vote alluded to by the hon member for Aberdeen, and therefore that hon. member's comparison was erroneous. With regard to Mr. West, he was enabled to say not only that the allowance from the lord chamberlain's department was continued to that illustrious artist to the end of his life, but to add, that Mr. West received 1,000l.l.Mr. Huskisson
l.228l. was extremely happy to hear that it was not the intention of ministers to grant any pensions to the great officers of state, as he had long thought that the great chamberlains, &c. about the court might be well content with the dignity which they enjoyed, without debasing it by receiving a-salary. Among the names of those who had received pensions out of the privy purse, he found those of Sir W. Herschel and Miss Herschel, for400l.228l.Mr. W. Smith
d.s.s.l.d.s.222s.l. rose, to call the attention of the House to a subject which materially concerned the agriculturists of Ireland; namely, the present system of collecting the tithes. As an instance of the practical inconvenience and injustice of the present system, he held in his hand a receipt for 3d.s.s.l.d.s.222s.l.Sir H. Parnell
 objected to the two remedies proposed by the hon. member: to the first, because he thought it would be an act of injustice; and to the second, because an unnecessary expense would be incurred.Sir J. Mackintosh
 presented a petition from Robert Hawkes and Edward Taylor, sheriffs of Norwich, complaining that the assizes for the city were only held once a-year. The grievance of which the petitioners complained was a very serious one. The House was aware that, under the present regulations, the assizes for Norwich were only held once a-year, and that the spring assizes for the county did not extend to the city. The city of Norwich had, therefore, the same grievance to complain of as the four northern counties, which had already been under the consideration of the House. The spring assizes for the county of Norfolk were held at Thetford, and the summer assizes in the city of Norwich. One individual, committed on the 11th Sept. 1819, was confined ten months in prison previous to trial; two were committed on the 30th Sept. 1819; one on the 6th Oct. 1819; two on the 15th Jan., and one on the 3rd Feb. 1820. The petitioners expressed their hope that the House would take the subject into their serious consideration, in order that they might enjoy the same right possessed by nearly the whole of the counties of England. The hon. member trusted that the wisdom of parliament would devise some means of redressing this great grievance.Sir James Mackintosh
218 said, he held in his hand a petition of rather a singular nature. It was one from Mr. Hugh Campbell, a student at law, complaining of the conduct of the Highland Society of London. The petitioner, it appeared, had been inspired by a laudable zeal for the literature
218Sir J. Mackintosh
 complained that the act imposing an additional duty on malt made in Scotland, was passed at a late period of the last session quite unexpectedly, when a great part of the Scotch members had left town. He professed his determination to vote for the resolution.Sir J. Marjoribanks
 agreed that this would be a conciliatory measure, and tend to allay much of the discontent which existed in consequence of the system adopted in the collection oftythes. It would do away with much of the jealousy which existed towards the clergy of the established church, and would set at rest that which was growing up of late in Ireland; namely, the setting up claims to make articles titheable which had not been hitherto so. This measure had the approbation of the clergy.Sir J. Newport
262l.l.espionnage,261260 rose to bring forward his motion respecting the Milan Commission. It was with unfeigned regret that he felt himself bound in public duty, conscious as he was of his own inadequacy for the task, to bring this question under consideration. Undoubtedly, the subject was of a most delicate and painful nature, and, in its result, of the utmost importance to the peace and safety of the country. If his majesty's ministers had pursued a proper course either by not erasing her majesty's name from the Liturgy, or by retracing their steps when they saw the mischievous consequences of their conduct, the ferment which now agitated the public mind would have been avoided. The noble
262l.l.espionnage,261260Sir Ronald Fergusson
269268267266265264263 felt it to be his duty, under the circumstances in which the House was at present placed, to oppose the motion. It would, he conceived, be a waste of their time, if he were led, in consequence of what had fallen from the gallant general, to enter into an explanation of the course of conduct that his majesty's ministers had been induced to take in consequence of the important subject which had recently occupied their consideration. Had the gallant general, he would ask, seen any thing in the general conduct of ministers that rendered it necessary to bring this question under discussion? Or had he perceived any part of their proceedings that appeared to justify the casting the least imputation on them, as the authors of this painful investigation? He conceived that the gallant general had not; and therefore he would simply apply himself to the motion now before the House. The objection he took to it did not arise from any indisposition on the part of ministers to give the fullest information on the subject when the proper time arrived; for, whatever might be the gallant general's opinion of ministers— whatever cause might have induced him
269268267266265264263Lord Castlereagh
275 explained. If the measure now instituted failed in the lords, there was no idea of founding criminal proceedings in that House. He had only
275Lord Castlereagh
278277276 began by expressing his surprise that none of his majesty's ministers had attempted to answer his hon. friend, (Mr. Creevey); for though some unguarded expressions might have fallen from him, yet many of his observations had been much to the purpose, and would have a stinging effect out of doors. Ministers were bound to stand up and to justify their master. The noble lord had said, in express terms, that the king of England had lent himself to an accommodation respecting indecency and adultery. No sovereign had ever been so publicly degraded. He did not believe that ministers themselves had ever believed the charges in the green bag, because, if they had believed them, they could not have given such advice as had been given. The queen of England, charged with adultery, was not only to be addressed by both Houses of Parliament, but she was to be acknowledged in certain courts near which she might choose to reside. The right hon. gentleman (Mr. Canning), after seeing all the charges in the green bag, had in a most manly speech, a speech which did him the greatest credit, professed his respect and his affection for her majesty. The right hon. gentleman, after having seen the charge, had used the remarkable expressions, that his attention, affection, and respect, remained the same as they had been. He could therefore produce the right hon. gentleman as an authority opposed to his colleagues, for he at least dissented. If, in the opinion of the other ministers, she was black with guilt, in the right hon. gentleman's opinion she was white as snow. What was the feeling of the country upon this subject at the present moment? From every part one sentiment (whether just or not, he knew not) of respect for her majesty, and of conviction that she was innocent, was heard. This was the natural result of the mode of proceeding adopted against her majesty. The noble lord had come down to that House and proposed the most hateful of measures—a green bag, to be investigated by a secret committee; and had, in some degree, explained how it was to be composed. The queen's legal advisers were to be excluded; of course the attorney and solicitor-general must also have been excluded. The committee, then, must
278277276Mr. Bennet
 rose to order. He really must submit to the House whether it was decent or parliamentary to impute to the king acts which could only be considered as done by his servants.Lord Castlereagh
273 rose, pursuant to notice, to postpone the order of the day for taking his majesty's Message into consideration. Before he proceeded to that question, he wished to make a few observations on what had fallen from the hon. gentleman who had recently addressed the House. He knew not how far the order of the House would suffer an individual to go when he was determined to transgress the bounds of decency. But certainly, in this case, the hon. member had uttered sentiments which would not be suffered where the feelings of private individuals were concerned, and which never should have been used in speaking of the character of the sovereign [Hear, hear!]. He protested solemnly, in the face of the House and of the country, against the speech which the hon. member had made that night. No individual was warranted in making such assertions—no individual at all acquainted with the fact would have applied such epithets to the feelings and the mind of the sovereign. Though placed under the most trying circumstances in which a monarch ever was or ever could be placed, his majesty had never betrayed the slightest symptom of a vindictive spirit [Hear!]. In every part of this unfortunate transaction he had evinced a feeling completely the reverse. Whatever his sense of injury might be, or whatever personal feeling might have been elicited by these transactions, his majesty had shown the most perfect forbearance with respect to every measure that ministers had adopted for the peace and safety of the country [Hear, hear!]. If they had gone on with this inquiry, it was from a sense of the justice of the cause, and in consequence of the manner in which the queen had conducted herself. A vindictive or passionate feeling had never been manifested by his majesty; and, instead of censuring his conduct, the honourable member and the country ought to offer him their heartfelt thanks for the efforts he had allowed ministers to make for the
273Lord Castlereagh
279bonâ fide, said, he had certainly wished to allude to the king 279bonâ fide,Mr. Bennet
285284violer"283282 said, that on the immediate subject of debate now before the House he was inclined to agree with Mr. Tierney, and though it was of little importance which way it was disposed of, he thought that on the whole it would be better to drop the motion for resuming the debate than to adjourn it to a future day. That debate was on the proposition for referring the papers contained in the green bag to a secret committee; but whatever course it might be expedient hereafter to adopt, it was clear that the appointment of a secret committee would be absurd, after all the matter to be examined, had been made public by the proceedings in the other House. With respect to the proceedings themselves on this momentous and perilous question, he had already
285284violer"283282Mr. Williams Wynn
 said, that he had been more pleased with the observations of Mr. Tierney, than with any speech which he had heard upon the very distressing subject before the House. Whenever the main question might be brought forward, he should feel it his duty to dismiss even the remembrance of general imputation from his mind. He should look for proof, and for proof only; and nothing short of the most damning proof should induce him to give credit to the stories which were in circulation.Mr. Keck
 said, that as the House was not in a situation to see its way as to the whole extent of the proceedings, he had thought it more convenient to postpone the order to the 15th August, than to discharge it altogether, or to move an address to the Crown. He should be extremely sorry, however, that there should be any difference of opinion in the House upon a mere matter of form.Lord Castlereagh
 observed, that from the time of the Union, Irish spirits had been imported into this country without an)' obstruction in the state in which they were manufactured, but that in the acts under consideration, a clause was introduced, imposing a prohibition of the import of any raw spirits into this country, unless received into the stock of a rectifier. By this clause it was complained, that the Irish distillers were subjected to a very great grievance, and upon that representation being made to his majesty's government, the case had been fully considered. The result of that consideration was a conviction, that in common justice, the clause ought to be repealed. He moved that the chairman be directed to move for leave to bring in the bill for the repeal of the said clause.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
287 was surprised how-such a clause as that to which the motion referred happened to be smuggled into the act before the committee. This clause was evidently devised to interfere with the free and fair trade of Ireland, and to prevent the Irish distillers from coming into competition with those of Ireland. That it was cunningly contrived with that view, there could be no doubt. While he bore testimony to the candour of the chancellor of the Exchequer towards Ireland on this occasion, he begged to differ from him as to his construction of the act of Union. Spirits formed a distinct manufacture in Ireland, and were as free from the regulation of the English excise as its linen manufacture. The spirits distilled in Ireland were recognised by several laws of the legislature of that country, previous to the Union, as a distinct manufacture, and the principle of these laws ought to be respected by the imperial parliament. It was not any reason for placing Irish spirits under the control of the English excise, that they were of greater strength than the spirits distilled in this country. But as the terms of the clause referred to in the motion mentioned raw spirits he was prepared to argue, that it did not correctly speaking, extend to Irish spirits. For the Irish spirits, as he was enabled to show, was not a raw, but a complete spirit. It was indeed, much more a complete spirit than rum, and yet the produce of the colonies was treated with more liberality than the spirits of Ireland, for it was not required that the for-
287Mr. M. Fitzgerald
288 said, it was impossible, if
288Mr. Marryat
 said, that the board of excise had suggested to him that this measure might affect the security of the revenue; but he was bound not to let any consideration of revenue interfere with the due execution of the act of Union, and if any of the clauses of that act were of doubtful meaning, the House was equally bound, in justice and liberality, to explain them in the sense most favourable to Ireland.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that previous to the Union this subject had come under Mr. Pitt's consideration, and he had received several representations, stating that the effect of it would be, that a large portion of the trade and capital of the distilleries would he transferred from England to Ireland. He replied, as a statesman of enlightened views ought, that it was a matter of indifference to him to what part of the empire the capital was transferred. On that principle, the union was framed, and he thought they had no right to consult the question of revenue at the expense of the first principles of the Union.Lord Castlereagh
, as he had been called upon in so pointed a manner, would only observe, that he had not said what the hon. member had imputed to him, and he would tell him why it was impossible he should have said so. At that time the English parliament was the parliament of Ireland, and he never could have been guilty of the absurdity of asserting, that they could not legislate for the whole of the empire. He put it to the hon. gentleman whether he could consider it as the part of a good member of parliament to be setting the manufacturers of one part of the country against those of another part, as if they had separate interests. He hoped never to see a national question so treated again.Mr. John Foster
, in moving the order of the clay for the third reading of the Lottery bill, said, that in consequence of the communications which had taken place between an hon. friend of his and the hon. member for Aberdeen, he had consented to withdraw what were considered the objectionable clauses in the bill.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
291 observed, that such an enactment would be wholly unnecessary. The secretary was
291The Chancellor of the Exchequer
281280 said, he had, on the last time on which he had occasion to speak
281280Mr. Tierney
 said, that if the facility for the import of Irish spirits were afforded, which the proposition was calculated to produce, it would be impossible to prevent that part of the English coast with which he was immediately connected, as well as the coast of North Wales, from being deluged with that article. He maintained, that the clause referred to did not involve any violation of the act of Union, as a fair review of the system of the countervailing duties would fully manifest. The fact was, that the Irish spirit generally imported into this country required rectification before it was fit for use, and therefore it was no grievance to let the clause stand as it did. At least it was no grievance to the people of England, who might be disposed to consume such spirits. But he begged the House to consider the consequences likely to follow from making such ardent spirits cheap in this country.Mr. Bright
 expressed his satisfaction at the decision of the right hon. gentleman and pointed out some passages in the 33d and 38th clauses of the bill, which also required amendment. He also protested against the use of black letter in bills, which sometimes rendered it extremely difficult to ascertain their precise contents. In consequence of its having been alleged that the secretary of the lottery had some share in the contract, and might therefore favour one lottery office keeper or another, he wished to bring up two clauses, prohibiting the secretary, or any of the commissioners, from having any interest, direct or indirect, with the contract for the lottery.Mr. Hume
272271270, not withstanding he might incur the displeasure of the noble lord, and notwithstanding the protest and the warning the noble lord had given to the House, would maintain that the proposition of his gallant friend was a perfectly just one, and the time precisely that in which the motion ought to have been made. His gallant friend had not precipitated his motion; he had delayed it till a certain proceeding had taken place in the other House of Parliament. So anomalous a course was, perhaps, never pursued upon any former occasion. The queen of this country was criminally proceeded against; and how? By the introduction of a bill in which she was called by the most infamous and scandalous names. Neither her majesty nor that House had any information on the subject; and, under these circumstances, his gallant friend said, what he conceived to be most proper. "Let me see the foundation of this measure; if you make a charge of this nature, let me see your infernal Milan commission, or whatever commission it may be, on whose statement it is founded." It was quite a novelty, a thing hitherto unknown to the constitution of this country, for the king to authorize a commission to hunt a subject with lawyers, attornies, and spies, assisted by the emperor of Austria, through every part of Europe. This indeed was quite a novel system. It was dangerous when any responsible servant of the Crown was placed at the head of such a proceeding; it was much more dangerous when a person like Mr. Leach—he begged his pardon, he should have said sir John Leach—who was not a responsible servant of the Crown, organized a system of es-pionnage against any individual of this country; but it was still worse when a person, placed in the situation of that gentleman, inflamed the feelings of particular persons by stating to them things of a doubtful nature, but which were calculated strongly to excite their passions. They had a right, he contended, to have this vice-chancellor before them. He would maintain that he was a disturber of the public peace of this country. [Hear, hear! and order.] He would show how he was a disturber of the public peace.
272271270Mr. Creevey
 expressed his concurrence in the motion; but he could not help requesting his right hon. friend to remember that he was chancellor of the Exchequer for Scotland as well as for Ireland, and to reflect that if the Irish distilleries were allowed the free import of their spirits into England, it was but common justice that the same privilege should be granted to the poor distiller of Scotland.Mr. W. Dundas
290 acknowledged, that Ireland was a country to which England owed a debt of fearful magnitude for many ages of misgovernment, but this he thought was a bad mode of payment. He could not agree, that because some of the manufactures of Ireland had been destroyed, we were therefore to destroy some of the manufactures of England also. His hon. friend, whom he was glad to see in his place (Mr. J. Foster) had often contended, that the House had no right to interfere with the internal regulations of Ireland; he should like to know if that principle were now to be maintained. He strongly objected to the late period of the session at which this matter was brought on; and he also thought that as the excise had found sufficient reason for the mention of the obnoxious clause, the House ought to be acquainted with those reasons, now that it was about to be rescinded. It was not correct to speak of the rectifiers as the rivals of the Irish distillery; it would have been more consistent so to denominate the malt distillers, and on their behalf he must protest against this measure, except as an experiment. They had no objection to the importation of Irish spirits, if they were put on the same
290Mr. W. Smith
 said, he felt this to be a very difficult question. It was evident it was impossible on this occasion to exclude what was excluded on every other occasion. But where the introduction was neccessary, still greater caution ought to be used. It was highly improper to impute direct influence to the king in either House of Parliament, but he was aware that the same thing could be conveyed by putting it hypothetically. He did not suppose that any thing of that kind was intended; but in the warmth of debate, when any thing of that nature might be inadvertently introduced, the hon. member would see in what situation he (the Speaker) and the House were, if he did not use greater caution and restraint than on any other occasion, and carefully avoid whatever might excite strong feelings on this head.The Speaker
274 said, it was not his intention to bring into discussion the delicate points connected with this question. He did not view this as a personal question, but a question to be decided as between the public and her majesty. He thought the House had acted in a judicious manner in agreeing to the resolutions which had been passed, and he regretted that those resolutions had not been attended with effect. But if he had possessed the information which ministers appeared now to have possessed, and to the extent of the charges
274Sir M. W. Ridley
l.l. declared it to be his opinion, that a greater fraud had never been practised on the public, than that which had taken place in the last lottery. The amount of the prizes was stated to be 130,000l.l.Sir M. W. Ridley
289 deprecated the language of an hon. member, in so loosely casting an imputation upon the conduct of the Irish and Scotch distillers. The hon. member had not a particle of evidence to sustain the charge, that the spirit of Ireland was not as fairly manufactured as that of England. But the fact was, that the Irish spirit was of a much superior manufacture, or it would not have had so much sale in competition with the spirit manufactured in England. The Irish distillery was under the special protection of the Union. But such was the superior quality of Irish spirit, that a great quantity of it was imported into this country before the Union, as might be seen upon reference especially to the imports of 1797. The import of this article had, however, considerably increased since the Union, and nothing could prevent that increase, if
289Sir J. Newport
 said, that the motion of which the hon. member had just given notice, was unnecessary, because his majesty had already signified his intention, that the ceremony of the coronation shall not take place on the day originally named, nor was any other day fixed for that purpose. He wished to be distinctly understood, that the postponement of the coronation was not in consequence of any proceedings respecting her majesty.Lord Castlereagh
 said, the House would recollect the report received on Wednesday last from the chairman of the Grantham election committee. In that report evidence was disclosed, satisfactorily showing that notice had been duly served on the individuals who refused to give their attendance. The notes of the short-hand writer had been read, and fully bore out the evidence so disclosed. He thought, therefore, that the subsequent conduct of the individuals alluded to could be regarded in no other light than as a gross violation and contempt of the authority of that House, and as an obstruction to the discharge of those duties which the House had imposed on its committee. As such, however averse he might generally be to measures of rigour, he thought that in furtherance of justice, and to provide against future obstructions of the same kind, the House was bound to animadvert severely upon it. He should therefore now move, "1. That it appears to this House, that sir W. Manners, bart. has absconded, in order to avoid being taken into custody, pursuant to an order of this House.—2. That an humble address be presented to his majesty, that he will be graciously pleased immediately to issue his Royal Proclamation, with such reward as his majesty shall think proper, for discovering, apprehending, and detaining the said sir William Manners."—Similar resolutions with regard to Mr. Jervis were put and carried.Sir Robert Heron
293 rose to enter his protest against the renewal of this measure. Doubtful as its policy was at any time, a strong case ought indeed to be made out, in order to show that it was expedient in the fifth or sixth year of a general peace. The first bill of this kind which parliament had ever sanctioned was the 33rd of the late king. That bill was passed in order to guard the country against the innovating principles and doctrines of the French
293Mr. Bernal
295294 said, it was now, as had been observed by his hon. friend, about twenty-seven years since parliament had first been asked for an extension of those powers that had been previously deemed sufficient for the welfare of the country and the safety of the constitution. When this odious measure was first heard of within the walls of that House, France was in a state of actual revolution—its monarch dethroned—its religion abjured,
295294Colonel Davies
298297296 said, that though it was unpleasant to continue a debate in which no arguments had been offered but on one side, the bill was, in his opinion, so discreditable to the ministers, so discreditable to the House, and so discreditable to the country, that he could not help saying a few words against it; and the more so, because he thought it was only by the earnestness, zeal, and perseverance of the opposition to it, that the country could ever be delivered from this measure, and that they had thus far to congratulate themselves, that it was on account of that opposition that they had not a perpetual instead of a two years Alien bill. It was a bill to deprive foreigners of that degree of favour, protection and countenance which they enjoyed in this country, he would not say in ancient times, for that might admit of dispute, but without question in that time of our history to which every man looked back with most satisfaction, and which might be most conveniently taken as an example. He really could not understand after all that had been said on the subject, on what reasons were offered to them, this bill, which might affect the interests, and which affected so directly the character of the country. Was it for the protection of our own government, or was it for the protection of foreign governments? When it was last proposed to them, four years ago, they were told that Europe was still over-run with Jacobins, some Republicans, some Napoleonists, all michievous in the extreme; they were told to look at the Netherlands, where, till an Alien bill had been introduced, the work of sedition had been carried on by wholesale, by these pestilent enemies of all established authority. After that, what had happened? In that very year, many of those exiles were recalled to France; and, in the next year, the king of France, the head of that government which we were professing to protect by that bill, said his wish was, to forgive and forget, and suffered almost all the others of these exiles to return to their country. The consequence was, that the Netherlands
298297296The Hon. J. W. Ward
299 argued against the observations of the hon. member who had just spoken, contending, that experience and practice were opposed to the speculation and conjecture of that hon. member, when he maintained that English Jacobins, or by whatever other name those might be called who desired the overthrow of the government, had no disposition to seek assistance from congenial spirits in other nations; for it must be recollected, that when the enemies of our government were most anxious for the attainment of their object, they made an appeal for assistance to the National Assembly of France. But, if gentlemen would look to the general conduct, or rather to the uniform system of the disaffected of this country, they would find them resort to every quarter of the world where any symptom of a similar spirit appeared. It was, indeed, notorious, that every movement of insurrection or disaffection to established governments thoughout Europe, served as a motive, an example, and an encouragement to those who had the same views in this country. Could any one doubt, that if any disaffected persons in any nation
299Mr. Bathurst
300 said, that having supported this bill on a former occasion, he thought it necessary to explain the reasons for which he was induced to oppose it on the third reading. On the former occasion, the queen had not arrived in this country, or, at least, no measures affecting her honour and character were fore this House, nor had those, en-
300Mr. Maxwell
304, in rising to offer an explanation on a subject to which the attention of the House had been called by the hon. member for Aberdeen, regretted that the hon. member was not present to hear his justification. He could assure the House that nothing had been farther from his mind than to call in the military for the purpose of overawing the livery or his fellow-citizens. His sole object in taking the precaution for which he had been blamed by some persons, was to preserve and protect the citizens of London; and for this purpose the military had been placed in the neighbourhood of the city—not within it, as had been erroneously stated. He had thought it prudent, on this occasion, to post soldiers in places contiguous to the city, lest any evil-disposed spirits should think fit to renew such outrages as had been committed in the mayoralty of alderman Wood, when shops were broken open, arms were stolen, and acts of violence and bloodshed were committed. With this example before him, he had
304The Lord Mayor
 said, he wished to know whether it was to be considered as a permanent part of the system of laws of the country? It had been continued from year to year, almost as a matter of course, advantage being taken of the comparative indifference with which the House looked at what professed to be a temporary measure. In the same manner the act for the seizure of arms in Ireland had been continued for ten years by five distinct renewals. This Alien law also had been now continued five or six years since the peace, and was to be continued for two years longer, at the end of which time it was likely to be just as necessary as as it was now, for not a single argument had been now adduced in favour of it.Lord A. Hamilton
301 expressed his surprise and regret that sir H. Parnell had not succeeded in obtaining the appointment of the committee for which he had moved some time ago, as had that motion been agreed to, ample evidence would have been adduced to show that every impedi-
301Mr. Hume
 rose to give notice of an address to his majesty, praying that the Royal Coronation might be suspended until the termination of the proceedings now pending against her Majesty.Mr. Beaumont
303302 argued forcibly against the bill, the purport of which was, a general and indiscriminate renewal of all the duties upon all manufactures transmitted from one country to the other. When these duties were originally laid, they were for the avowed purpose of introducing and establishing manufactures in Ireland, and this, however erroneous it might be deemed, was a distinct and general object; but the right hon. gentleman, in proposing the further continuance of these duties said, he did so, in order to protect capital that was vested in their manufactures. This was certainly a very different motion from that which originally gave rise to those taxes. But the right hon. gentleman has not stated any distinct case to show where the capital was so invested as to require this protection, and this should be done before the continuance of such duties was agreed to. For where duties of this nature were not necessary for the protection of Ireland, they must operate as direct taxation upon that country. From the representation of the deputies of the Irish manufacturers who had communicated with the right hon. gentleman, it appeared that they could have no desire to continue the taxes, or what were called protecting duties, upon plated ware or pottery, for as these articles consumed in Ireland (there being no manufacture of them), were imported into Ireland from this country, the duty referred to only served to impose an additional tax upon the Irish consumers. Therefore it was desirable that pottery and plated ware should be wholly omitted from the schedule annexed to this bill. But there were other articles in this schedule to which he must request the attention of the committee, and upon the necessity of excepting which he could offer various arguments if time were allowed for due consideration. From the thin state of the committee he did not deem it proper to enter into the subject at any length, but he felt it his duty to state as briefly as
303302Sir H. Parnell
 informed the House that he understood sir William Manners had surrendered himself, and was then in the custody of the serjeant-at-arms. The two individuals also, H. Manners, esq. and W. Atter, who had been ordered to attend were then in attendance. Knowing, as he did, that the evidence of the two latter was no longer wanting before the Grantham committee, and remembering the lenity which the House seemed disposed to exercise in their case, as having acted without an independent will of their own, he should conclude with moving, that the order for their attendance be discharged. The House would recollect, that A. Jarvis, another person who had refused to attend the notice of the committee, was on Saturday last committed to Newgate. He believed that he should shortly have to present a petition in his behalf. With regard to sir W. Manners, it was not his intention to submit any motion.Sir Robert Heron
 was of opinion that, considering the view which the House originally took of the situation in which the individuals who were the subject of this motion stood, there was equal ground for at present exercising the same lenity.Mr. Wynn
319 thought there was but one course to pursue, and that the House was clearly bound to act as it had done in the case of Jarvis. He therefore moved, "That sir William Manners, baronet, having absconded, in order to avoid being taken into custody pursuant to the Order of this House, be for his said offence com-
319Mr. Wynn
 said, he could bear testimony to the merits of sir W. Adams. It was worthy of attention, that many persons who had received pensions for life on account of blindness, had been since cured by sir W. Adams.Sir T. Acland
 said, he had felt confident when the subject was before under discussion, that Mr. Bennet would do as he had done, state simply and plainly what he had seen. The question as to the manner of granting the pensions was before the Chelsea board.Lord Palmerston
 observed, that sir William Adams had failed only in those cases in which the subjects had been pronounced incurable by other oculists; but even in such cases that eminent oculist had afforded relief.Mr. Barham
322 said, he had felt it his duty from what he knew of the melancholy disease which gave rise to this institution, as well as from what he had heard of the distinguished individual under whose superintendence it was placed, to visit that institution, and he was at once astonished and gratified by the result of his observation; for he found that several gallant men who had bled in the service of their country, and who had, in the opinion of other surgeons, been totally bereaved of sight, were quite recovered, while the worst cases were considerably ameliorated. Having witnessed such cases, he could not forbear from making the statements which upon a former occa-
322Mr. Hutchinson
 remarked, that there could be no doubt whatever of the attention of the lord lieutenant to the decision of that House.Mr. Grant
 observed, that the conduct of the prisoner was, according to his own confession, so grossly disgraceful, that it would be obviously indecent to allow his continuance in a judicial or any other office of trust or consequence.Mr. Bankes
 understanding the office which the prisoner held was one of annual election, and that such election would take place in September, subject to the approbation of the lord lieutenant; had no hesitation in stating that this approbation would not be granted to the election of the prisoner after what had transpired in that House.Mr. Grant,
324 observed, that after what his right hon. friend had stated, and as the election for the office which the prisoner held would take place at no distant period, he thought there could be no objection to the motion.324Lord Castlereagh
334333332 said, as he understood the hon. and learned gentleman to have commenced his speech by saying, that he would not enter into any discussion of the general merits of this bill, he should certainly imitate his example, and apply himself more to the consideration of the clauses which the hon. and learned gentleman had proposed than to the general observations into which he had digressed, notwithstanding his promise at the commencement of his speech. And here he could not help remarking, that it was easy for any hon. and learned gentleman to assume that nothing had been said on his (lord Castlereagh's) side of the House in support of the measure which was now before it; and if such an assumption were afterwards to be insisted on as a truth, it would be a convenient mode of arguing, and a cheap method of acquiring a victory. If, however, such a mode of arguing were to be held satisfactory, and if assertion were to be deemed equal to truth, he might meet the assertions of the hon. and learned gentleman opposite with others of his own, and might say, that the arguments formerly urged in defence of this bill had not only been satisfactory to his (lord Castlereagh's) mind, but also to those of former Houses of Parliament. It was from knowing how convincing those arguments had appeared to those who had sat in former parliaments, and also from knowing how widely those arguments had been discussed, and how generally approved by all who had attended to them, that he had deemed it unnecessary to inflict a repetition of them upon the House on present occasion, especially as no arguments had been advanced by the opponents of the measure, which had not been a thousand times advanced, and as often refuted; and therefore, if he had abstained
334333332Lord Castlereagh
354 knew not what information the hon. and learned member possessed, upon what authority it was
354The Attorney-General
l356lllll begged to call the attention of the House to a subject which came to his knowledge on Saturday. He understood it was intended to build barracks in the Regent's Park for 437 men of the Life-guards, in lieu of the barracks in King-street, Portman-square. That fit barracks should, if necessary, be built, he had no objection; nor had he any that the Regent's Park should be the spot selected. But he thought the terms upon which those barracks were to be erected rather novel. The expense of erecting them was to be defrayed by annuity. The reason for this was, that the sum paid for the buildings now occupied by the soldiers was 5,400l356lllllMr. Calcraft
llll said, he considered there was a good reason for accepting of the contract before them. If the regiment in question were to have been removed from London, it might perhaps have been argued, that so large a sum should not have been expended for their accommodation But if any garrison whatever were to be kept in London, the Horse-guards surely ought to be preferred, their good conduct being justly admired and praised. It was about eight years ago since a proposition for building a barrack for that regiment in the Regent's Park had been made; the estimate of the expense amounted to 120,000llllThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was surprised at the nature of the objection. Had his right hon. friend been compelled to ask a vote for a large sum of money, there would have been a colour for the opposition offered. Here it was proposed to effect a considerable object, by most convenient advances, from time to time, on a fair estimate, and finally the public would reap the advantage by having acquired a specific property in the buildings thus erected.Lord Binning
 did not see any reason why this regiment should have been quartered at London. If ministers would look at Croydon, they would find barracks there, built at great expense, almost entirely empty. He saw no reason for going to the enormous expense for the erection of new barracks.Mr. Williams
 reprobated the grant, as one which must ratify an usurped privilege on the part of ministers, as well as sanction a most suspicious transaction. He objected to the principle laid down by the noble lord, as repugnant to that of our ancestors, who thought the best security they had for their liberties consisted in their maintaining closely the connexion between the citizen and soldier, and not treating the interests of one as separated from those of the others.Mr. Gordon
 said, he should be the last person in the House who would undervalue the warrant of the Speaker, and would ever be found among the first to maintain its due authority and dignity; and if he had been permitted to proceed, he was persuaded he should not have been called to order, and that, as it appeared to him, in a manner which seemed to imply some reproach—he might almost venture to say reproof, which he did not feel he deserved, merely wishing to discharge his duty. As to what he had said respecting the witnesses not being called, he had referred merely to the counsel and parties interested for the sitting member, and not to the conduct of the committee; and he had wished to observe also, not for the purpose of defence, but with a view to the mitigation of punishment, that if he might reason by analogy to the practice of courts of law, where a party could not apply with effect to the court against a witness who refused to attend on a subpoena, unless he accompanied his application by an affidavit that the person who refused to attend was a material witness.Mr. Tennyson
320 said, that on a former occasion he had interfered in favour of sir W. Manners, conceiving that as he had been selected as nominee in the committee for his son, it might fairly be expected of him as an incidental duty. He unfeignedly agreed in what had fallen from the hon. baronet who had moved an amendment, for the absconding certainly did not appear in the evidence on the Journals. The House should also know, that though it had been applied to on behalf of the sitting member to enforce the attendance of sir W. Manners and others as material witnesses, yet they had not been examined, though in attendance the whole of that day, which had brought the pro-
320Mr. Tennyson
357 intreated of the House to reflect on the consequences which might follow the barrack system—they might
357Mr. Ellice
352351 said, that his hon. and learned friend, in alluding to the administration of king William, and to the ministers under whom the law of habeas corpus was enacted, had asked, whether they might not have met the great measures which had been alluded to in the same way as his hon. and learned friend's propositions had been met? whether the same arguments would not have been equally applicable in either case? He would answer no. But in the case of any measure directed virtually against a pending proceeding, and upon which the arguments (though not perhaps on the part of the mover himself, yet certainly on the part of those who supported him) were derived from the assumed character of the existing administration—for his own part, he could not think, that, in such a case, it was so monstrous for ministers to suppose (nor did he perceive how they could be accused of
352351Mr. Canning
 said, he found himself in a situation of considerable difficulty; for if it was the privilege of a member, on moving a clause, to conclude the debate by a reply, as in the case of a motion, then he was precluded by the practice of the House from offering any observations in answer to those of his hon. and learned friend. As his hon. and learned friend's proposition was in the shape of an amendment, and not of an original motion, it appeared to him (Mr. Canning) that what his han. and learned friend had just said could not be deemed a reply.Mr. Canning
 said, he only desired to set himself right with the House on this point; and to show his hon. and learned friend that he had no wish to take advantage of the right which the forms of the House allowed him, he should wait till the first of the motions had passed.Mr. Canning
347346345 observed, that as that was the case he would proceed, with the intention, however, of limiting his remarks within a very small compass. His hon. and learned friend had abstained from answering that which was transcendantly the most important part of his noble friend's speech—namely, that the proposed clause, was to prevent an abuse of such a nature that if his majesty's present ministers were supposed capable of permitting it, they were unworthy to remain for a single hour in that capacity, and ought not merely to be restrained, but to be driven with scorn and indignation from their offices. His hon. and learned friend had said, that he had drawn this clause
347346345Mr. Canning
 said, he was one of the members of the committee before which the prisoner had been guilty of gross prevarication; and without desiring to interfere with the rights of the corporation of* Limerick, he could not help saying that such a person should not be allowed to remain in any judicial station.Mr. Dawson
340 declared, that if an opinion were to be formed of the talents, judgment, and discretion of the administration from the speech of the right hon. gentleman, those who opposed the administration could not wish that question should be put on a better issue. It appeared to him that his hon. and learned friend's proposition deserved to be received by the House of Commons with a far different temper than had been displayed by the right hon. gentleman. The object of the clauses proposed by his hon. and learned friend was, to secure to foreigners on coming to this country, ignorant as they must be of the nature of the constitution, of the feelings of the people, of the securities on which they were to depend, not only for their case and comfort, but for their personal safety while in the country, such a certainty of being protected as would place them beyond all fear and doubt on that head. If the members of the House of Commons, satisfied with the knowledge of the British constitution, felt assured that there would be no danger attendant on the arrival of those witnesses, who would undertake to aver that similar feelings prevailed in the bosoms of men coming from a far distant country, to a nation which they looked upon with prejudices, to a people of which they entertained strange notions? That House might know that the power entrusted by the bill to government would not be abused; but how could that knowledge be conveyed to foreigners? On the recent landing of some foreigners the people of the place where they landed, with
340Mr. Abercromby
 thought the prisoner should resign the office which he held.Mr. Daly
 said, that as the office which the prisoner occupied was subject to annual election, and as that election must be sanctioned by the lord lieutenant, there could be no reason to apprehend the reappointment of the petitioner after the decision of that House.Mr. Daly
 said, that he presented the petition, as that petition was couched in language respectful to the House; but he had no desire whatever that the petitioner should continue to occupy a judicial office.Mr. Daly
 said, that he understood sir W. Manners had left his home before the order was made for taking him into custody. By the evidence of the messenger it appeared, that before the House debated upon that order, sir W. Manners had gone from his usual place of residence at Buckminster, and could not justly therefore be said to have absconded. He trusted, as some misconception seemed to have prevailed, that the House would not deem it necessary to adopt the motion, and should move that the order for his attendance be discharged.Sir James Graham
355 said, it appeared as if the ministers thought they were for ever to be continued as such; or, at all events, during the proceeding against her majesty. But whether that might be the case or not, of one thing, at all events, he was sure, that in conferring such a power on his majesty's ministers, they were con-
355Mr. J. P. Grant
 was persuaded, that if the hon. baronet were apprised of the resolutions to which the House had already come upon this subject, and the course which it had hitherto pursued, he would not have brought forward his amendment. It appeared in evidence, that sir W. Manners had set at defiance the order of the House, and had actually barricadoed his doors for the purpose of preventing its execution. He must remind the House likewise, that they had already punished one person for similar conduct, and that person the servant of sir W. Manners. Could they with any propriety liberate the master, after they had sent to prison an individual dependent upon him, and who, from his station in life, could hardly be so well acquainted with the nature of the offence he had committed. He felt assured they would deal out equal justice, and should only observe in addition, that it was not on a report of the committee that they were proceeding, but that the House had satisfied itself by an examination at the bar.Dr. Phillimore
341 said, with respect to the general question of continuing the Alien act, I vote for that proposition for those reasons that have been so ably urged by the noble lord. Now, as to the third resolution, which is supposed necessary to protect the witnesses of her majesty, I am compelled to give to that resolution not only my negative, but my hearty reprobation; and I do this more from motives of regard to the queen than of justice to the government. The object is not to prevent any foreigner in the interest of the queen from being sent away, for I am bold in this assertion, that her majesty the queen's defence will depend on those witnesses that are to be brought into the country through the exertions of the noble lord, and not on any now liable to the provisions of this act. Is there one man so lost to truth as to say, he doubts the assurance given, that my noble friend will exert every power, direct and indirect, to procure the presence of every person deemed necessary to the queen's defence. Again, is there a man who will not allow, that without such assistance it would be difficult at least for her majesty to be prepared for her trial. As the queen's friend (if I may be so bold), I do protest against this resolution, because' it would surrender the effectual pledge already given, and substitute an idle, in-
341Mr. R. Martin
353 observed, that when he entered the House, he had no idea that the resolutions now before the House were to be proposed. But he could not help stating the reasons urged in support of that clause, formed a strong ground against the existence of such a bill, and unless the
353Mr. Denman
 said, he understood the hon. and learned gentleman to say, that what passed at Dover was a manifestation of public opinion.Mr. Wellesley Pole
338 replied, that he should always bow to the chair with that respect which was due to it when it was
338Mr. Wellesley Pole
 observed, that he had a right then to consider the hon. and learned gentleman as avowing it.Mr. Wellesley Pole
 was proceeding to make some further remarks on what had fallen from the hon. and learned gentleman, whenMr. Wellesley Pole
337 said, he should not trouble the House at any length upon the merits of this question, but he could not forbear making some observations upon what had fallen from the hon. and learned gentleman who had just sat down. That hon. and learned gentleman had intimated that a suspicion existed in the country that the ministers did not intend to act with the utmost justice and delicacy towards her majesty. The hon. and learned gentleman who had proposed these clauses, and whose talents, eloquence, and candour, he admired upon all occasions, had however stated, that no such suspicion existed in his mind. The hon. and learned gentleman who had just sat down asserted in round terms that a proof of the suspicions which the public entertained of his majesty's ministers was to be found in the outrageous violence which had been exhibited at Dover towards certain individuals who landed there, because it was supposed that they came for the purpose of giving evidence on the approaching important state proceeding. Did the hon. and learned gentleman call that act the expression of public opinion? It was the act of a rabble. He (Mr. W. P.) readily allowed that the rabble were hostile to the present administration. He hoped they always would be so. It was a proof that the present administration had acted with energy, and had successfully supported the dignity of the Crown and the interests of the country. But, on account of this abominable and scandalous outrage which the hon. and learned gentleman chose to consider the expression of public opinion, the House of Commons were called upon to throw a slur on government, in the face of the public and the world, by indicating such a suspicion of government as to withhold from them the powers with which they had formerly been entrusted. He wholly subscribed to the declaration of his noble friend, that if his majesty's ministers were found attempting, what — not the hon. and learned gentleman himself, but, according to him, the public suspected they would attempt—if they not only did not take no means to prevent persons from coming forward to give evidence for her majesty in the pending proceeding, but if they did not give
337Mr. Wellesley Pole
 interfered, and reminded the right hon. gentleman of the great inconvenience that might arise, were the rules of the House to permit any hon. member to refer to particular expressions used in former debates.The Speaker
 said, the original question before the House was, "that the Speaker do leave the chair;" and therefore, unless that motion were withdrawn, the proposed instruction must be considered an amendment.The Speaker
 said, that the question which he must first put was, "that the original words stand part of the motion;" and if, on that question, the House determined that he should leave the chair, the right hon. gentleman would have no opportunity of speaking on the question.The Speaker
 spoke to order. It was subversive, he said, of the authority of the House that a person called upon as a witness by a warrant of the House, should take upon himself to refuse obedience to that warrant, on the consideration whether or not he was a material witness; and therefore it was disorderly to urge as an excuse the circumstance stated by the hon. member. Also, if observations were permitted on the manner in which an election commitee executed its duty, it could not be foreseen how far interference with committees might be carried.The Speaker
321 again spoke to order, and said that the hon. member had much misunderstood the observations which he had felt himself called upon to make: nothing was farther from his wish or intention than to convey the slightest reproof to the hon. member, and he regretted that he should have thought so; but he had a strong impression that the subject matter of the hon. gentleman's speech was disorderly, as conveying the idea that a difference should be made by a person to whom a warrant was issued, in the obedience which he might pay to it by the consideration whether it was or was not necessary that he should attend.321The Speaker
 expressed a doubt whether the prisoner should be released without some assurance that he would be removed from the office of recorder of Limerick.Sir J. Mackintosh
323 rose, not with a view to oppose the motion, but in order to suggest the condition in which this unfortunate individual was placed by his own conduct. He did not mean to interpose between this individual and the proposed lenity of the House. This individual admitted that he was guilty of prevarication on oath, and as he was a member of a liberal profession, it would be for those who composed that profession, to consider whether it were fitting that he should be allowed any longer to belong to such a profession. But without desiring to aggravate the suffering which the reflections of his own mind must inflict upon this individual, he must observe upon that which was material to the public. This indivi-
323Sir J. Mackintosh
350349348 in moving the third resolution, begged to make one or two observations, in answer to what had fallen from his right hon. friend First, it was remarkable how strictly his right hon. friend applied the proposed resolutions as personal to himself and his colleagues. He seemed to consider himself and his friends as the permanent immovable administration of the country, and that everything proposed was directed against them. Every measure which was brought forward, in opposition to their views or feelings, his right hon. friend appeared to consider as affecting them in a personal manner. Every measure which might even be thought to affect the hon. and right hon. gentlemen, however remotely, his right hon. friend seemed to think a personal affront, and a very ungentlemanly proceeding. The possible abuse of power generally seemed to be totally lost sight of. Among other things, his right hon. friend regretted that the subject respecting the queen should have been introduced into this question. From that discussion, however, he (sir J. Mackintosh)
350349348Sir J. Mackintosh,
344343primâ facie342 said, that in the few observations which he was about to submit, he should confine himself to that clause which had been chiefly discussed, and which he considered by far the most important of the three —he meant that which was intended to afford protection to the foreign witnesses for and against the queen. It was not his intention to attempt to follow the right hon. gentleman opposite through the various points
344343primâ facie342Sir J. Mackintosh
 begged to consult the Chair on the subject, and to be informed whether the moving of an instruction to a committee entitled the mover to the privilege of a reply.Sir J. Mackintosh
 said, he merely rose to disavow all personal suspicion of the ministers, while he begged leave explicitly to avow a constitutional jealousy of the power now vested in them.Sir James Mackintosh
331330329328327326325 rose, not to oppose the question that the Speaker do now leave the chair, nor yet to enter into any discussion on the general merits of the bill then before the House. He had expressed his opinions upon that question so frequently upon former occasions, that he felt himself perfectly justified in not repeating them at present. He had another motive, of a much more powerful
331330329328327326325Sir James Mackintosh
 said he had no intention of disavowing it.Mr. Scarlett
336335 felt considerable surprise at the very extraordinary speech which he had just heard from the noble lord. For, what was the argument of it? That the power given to ministers by this bill was so odious, that it was a gross libel and a wicked calumny upon them to suppose that they could ever employ it. Why, if this argument were to be allowed for a moment, the ministers might in a short time ask for the suspension of the Habeas Corpus act upon a similar principle. They might address parliament to the following effect—"For God's sake suspend the Habeas Corpus act—for God's sake give up your right to a trial by jury—for God's sake repeal all your most valuable laws. The power we shall gain by such measures will be so odious and abominable, that it will be a libel upon us to suppose that we shall abuse it, and therefore you will be in quite as good a condition as you are at present." But could any thing be more ridiculous than this line of argument? He, for one, thought not. The noble lord had misrepresented the arguments of his hon. and learned friend. His hon. and learned friend had not proposed these clauses for the purpose of insinuating any calumnies against his majesty's ministers; on the contrary, he had distinctly stated that his object was, to repel such calumnies. He (Mr. S.) could not believe that the noble lord would make any improper use of the powers conferred by this bill; yet it was extremely possible
336335Mr. Scarlett
 allowed that his meaning had the tendency supposed by the right hon. gentleman, but trusted that he was incapable of using some of the words imputed to him. He had called the right hon. gentleman's colleagues weak, vacillating, and incapable of administering the affairs of the country in the present crisis. Their acts and measures fully justified his having so characterised them, and he would so characterise them still. He said this without intending personal disrespect to any of the individuals of whom the administration was composed: but as a member of parliament, he was entitled boldly to declare his opinion of their conduct as a body.Mr. Scarlett
 rose to explain. With respect to the conduct of the populace at Dover, he had not intended to adduce it as the expression of the public feeling, he had merely mentioned it as having been first alluded to by the noble lord, with whom he would unite in condemning it as highly reprehensible and improper. What he had observed was, that a great many persons out of doors might entertain suspicions of the intentions of government, which certainly were not entertained by himself. He no more considered the sentiments of such persons to express the public opinion, than he considered the votes of that House to express the public opinion.Mr. Scarlett
 confessed that he really did not know what expression of his had warranted the construction which the right hon. gentleman had put upon his words. He might be allowed to say that he had himself a little stake in the property, and could not therefore be indifferent to the welfare of the government of the country; but no man was ever less sanguine than himself in expecting, or thought any thing less likely to happen, than the dissolution of the present administration; for he thought they would not dissolve until the country did; and that the country would be dissolved by them; and no doubt had he but many persons would support them until it came to that crisis. He denied that any paramount necessity had been imposed upon ministers to adopt that course of proceeding on account of the mere circumstance of the queen's return, which the right hon. gentleman himself had so feelingly lamented, or to put the parties in that state which the whole country so deeply deplored. It was in this view that he had characterised the present as a weak administration. What other epithet could justly be applied to them? He contended, that the moment his majesty's ministers had admitted that great question to be one capable of negotiation, they had themselves given the lie to those who had maintained that a paramount necessity existed for following the course that had previously been taken. If any gentleman was of opinion that he, in the warmth of debate had shown any prejudice or party feeling on the subject, he wished to set himself right. He could assure the House, that he entertained no such feeling. He wished to see justice impartially done. He could not help stating, that he felt compassion, strong compassion for the situation of her majesty, but he also entertained a strong feeling, for the peace and tranquillity of the country, which he conceived were endangered by the proposed investigation.Mr. Scarlett
ll strongly condemned a proposition of this sort having been introduced at the close of a session. He condemned the mode proposed as changing altogether the principle upon which the country had heretofore acted with respect to barracks. The right hon. gentleman had said, that if the House should not approve of paying an annuity of 5,400llSir J. Newport
ll said, that instead of asking to raise a sum of 70,000llLord Palmerston
362 informed the House, that the Grantham borough election committee had determined, that James Hughes, esq. was not duly elected. That the last election for the said borough, so far as relates to the said James Hughes, esq, is a void election. He further informed the House, that the committee had come to the following resolutions:"1. That it appears to this committee, that, at the last election for the borough of Grantham, James Huges, esq, by sundry acts of treating, did act in violation of the statute of the 7th of William 3rd, cap. 4, whereby he is incapacitated to serve in parliament upon such election. 2. That a practice has subsisted for several elections, in the borough of Grantham, of paying sums of money to the out-voters, under colour of indemnifying them for loss of time; and the committee are of opinion, that the said practice is highly illegal, subversive of the
362Colonel Wodehouse
 said, there had been a misrepresentation in the Morning Chronicle with regard to what had passed the day before in that House, on the subject of the Ophthalmic hospital. A long speech had been made for his hon. friend the member for Cork, in which his hon. friend was represented as referring to what had fallen from him. Now, of the whole matter thus imputed to his hon. friend not above three sentences had been uttered by him, and these were incorrectly stated. He himself had not said that his former opinion was erroneous; and all he did say was that three medical persons had dissented from the opinion of sir W. Adams. He certainly had recently visited the hospital, and found only 69 patients. Three only were dissatisfied with their treatment; but it was, as he understood, without reason.Mr. Bennet
instanter. thought the House ought not to be called on to decide upon such a motion instanter.Lord Castlereagh
 said, there were two standing orders—one passed in 1666, and the other in 1669—relating to this question. The first provided, that no member of the House of Commons, and who was of the long robe, should act as counsel before the Lords; the second reserved to the House the power of granting exemption. The present case seemed to present sufficient ground for exercising this power, provided an entry was made on the Journals of the special circumstances attending it. He agreed, however, with the noble lord, that it would be better to give some notice.Mr. Wynn
365 said, they ought to take care that they did not surrender their just rights by a partial proceeding. He under-
365Sir F. Burdett
ll369368l rose, pursuant to notice, to move for an address to the Crown, praying his majesty to shorten the term of the imprisonment awarded to sir Manasseh Lopez. Some persons erroneously supposed that he wished to do away with the punishment altogether; but these individuals did not recollect that sir Manasseh had already paid a fine of 10,000ll369368lLord J. Russell
371370 felt that it was extremely unpleasant to oppose a motion of this description, and to endeavour to thwart the disposition of lenity which the House might feel towards any particular offender. Every gentleman must wish to show mercy and forbearance, as far as justice would permit; but the case in point was not one in which consistently with their duty, with the forms of parliament, and with propriety, they could interfere. Cases might exist, in which the House might in justice be called on to advise the Crown to interpose, and to exercise its prerogative of mercy, in the same way as they might offer advice with respect to any other prerogative; for the House had a right to
371370Mr. Wynn
372 said, he was not quite sure, but he believed that this was the first time that a question like the present had been brought before that House. He believed that this was the first case in which that House was called upon to interfere with the exercise of the royal prerogative of mercy; and what had taken place in the course of the debate, seemed to show to what consequence the adoption of such a motion was likely to lead. The motion was no doubt honourable to the feelings of the noble lord, but the precedent was peculiarly to be deprecated, which the acquiescence of the House in such a motion was calculated to establish. It would better become the House to leave the prerogative of mercy where it was fixed by the constitution, and not to press a proposition of this nature. Whether the law should have its execution was the peculiar prerogative of the Crown, and the responsible servants of the Crown could not be justified in recommending the interposition of the royal mercy upon the mere suggestion of that House (he spoke it with perfect respect) any more than upon the application of the humblest individual in the land. Although feelings must always be excited corresponding to the circumstances of particular cases (and particularly ill health was calculated to excite commiseration), could they conceive a place where such feelings could be less properly expressed than in that House? The noble lord had not meant to make his motion of general application, but to limit it to this particular case; yet that case at once brought forth another. If an inter-
372Lord Castlereagh
l25ll hoped that both the cases mentioned on this occasion would be attended to. Mr Swann's case was infinitely the strongest; he had been convicted only upon two counts out of twenty-three in the indictment against him, and that too in consequence of his not having pressed for the payment of a 20l25llMr. Gurney
 concurred with the right hon. gentleman opposite; and as there appeared to be an understanding, that due consideration would be given to the case of sir M. Lopez in the proper quarter, he hoped his noble friend would be induced to withdraw his motion. He also trusted that the case of Mr. Swann would be taken into consideration at the same time with that now before them.Mr. Grenfell
376 said, if he understood the statement of the noble lord, this case was already under consideration [No, no]. Well, then, he must understand that whether his motion had been brought forward or not, there were at present no impediments in the way of taking the case under the consideration of the Crown. He was satisfied with this declaration, He stated at the commencement of his observations, that there were some obstacles and difficulties in the way of a fair consideration of this case by the Crown; but as the noble lord had assured him that those difficulties would be removed, he was ready to admit that the case would be much better taken into consideration in the
376Lord J. Russell
382381380379378377 said, it would be in the recollection of the House that he had given notice of a motion for the production of copies of any official communications relative to a negotiation between the French government and that of Buenos Ayres for the establishment of a Bourbon dynasty in South America. It appeared to him to be of very considerable importance, that those documents should be laid upon the table of the House. The documents alluded to respected a correspondence which had taken place thirteen months ago. Since he had given his notice, he had had time for reflection on the subject, and he was fully satisfied in his own mind that it was his duty not to postpone his motion, late as the period of the session was. If he could suppose that his motion would embarrass negotiations with foreign powers, he should be extremely sorry, however strong his political bias might be, to agitate any question that might prove detrimental to his country. The subject to which he alluded was an extraodinary production, originating with the secretary for foreign affairs in the French government, in May 1849. At the conclusion of the session of parliament, we had been assured from the throne, that the most amicable relations were maintained with foreign powers. Yet at that very time was one foreign government devising a plan of the most insidious and unwarrantable nature, which if it would not subvert, would materially injure our commercial prosperity. At the very time when we were assured of the continuance of amicable relations with foreign powers was the secretary for foreign affairs in
382381380379378377Dr. Lushington
385384383 objected to the motion, on the ground that the information alluded to by the learned gentleman had not reached government in such a shape that it could be laid on the table; and ob-
385384383Lord Casllereagh
 replied, and said, he was-not, under all the circumstances, inclined to press his motion, and would therefore, with the permission of the House, withdraw it.Dr. Lushington
395 said, that though it was the fashion to insist that the people were inflamed by demagogues, he would contend that they had never entertained any such designs as to warrant ministers in adopting measures like that before the House. At this moment the standing army was 92,000 men, while Cromwell had been able to keep down a disaffected population with not more than one-third of the force. New barracks were constructing in all di-
395Mr. Hobhouse
 supported the bill, because he conceived volunteer or militia regiments the most constitutional force that could be used for the preservation of the public peace. He was adverse to a large standing army, and therefore it was that he supported the measure.Mr. Williams
 could not say whether the act was done by the dean and chapter or by parish vestry. As to cutting down the trees, he apprehended the same had been done on former coronations.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the cutting down of those trees for a sordid purpose, reflected any thing but honour on the reverend body. He would not vote in future, for any money for the repairs of Westminster Abbey; and he thought the House should resist any such vote if it should be proposed.Mr. Bankes
 disapproved of interfering with the prerogatives of the Crown. Though he felt how much pity was due to the case, he would oppose the motion; but be hoped the circumstances mentioned on this occasion would have their effect elsewhere.Mr. Brownlow
 implored government to bestow its most anxious attention on the British interests in South America. At that moment an interposition in behalf of our trade might be attended with the utmost advantage. The magnitude of that trade at present was very great; in fact, from Mexico to Cape Horn, all were supplied with British manufactures by British traders, and not only was that trade very great, but there was a new branch opened between the west coast of America and England direct, which he had no doubt would, if the East India restrictions were done away with, arrive at a very great height. He derived great consolation from the earnest tone assumed by the noble lord, and by the right hon. gentleman; and he was sure that the States of America would require protection in any negotiation with Spain, for maintaining the freedom they had acquired. If any improvement was to be expected in the trade of this country; if relief was to be looked for in any quarter for our desponding manufacturers, it must principally be by extending our commerce with South America.Mr. Ellice
 hoped that, when it was considered that this motion, if it failed, must become an impediment in the consideration of the case elsewhere, and if it was carried, must be fertile in occasioning questions of a similar nature, in that House, which was the most unfit place in the world for such discussions, the noble lord would be convinced of the propriety of withdrawing his motion. If there had existed any where an impression that an impediment arose from any prejudice supposed to exist in the House, that impression must be removed by the discussion that had now taken place, and the noble lord might believe that his motion had thus had sufficient effect. The removal of what was supposed to operate the other way be earnestly hoped would satisfy the noble lord, without pressing his motion to a division, which could not be beneficial.Mr. Canning
392391 opposed the motion as quite unusual under the circumstances of the case. It was for papers which in fact were already in the possession of both sides of the House; but as yet it could not be said whether the information stated in them was or was not correct, and this he thought sufficient to show that it could not be acceded to. His hon. and learned friend seemed to impute to his majesty's ministers a total want of all that sensibility to the national honour for which he gave himself and his hon. friend, the mover, credit. On the hypothesis of the validity of the document in question, government might be disposed to feel as strongly as the hon. mover and his hon. and learned friend; but although it might be perfectly harmless, or even beneficial.
392391Mr. Canning
 brought in his bill, "for better providing the means of Education for his Majesty's Subjects," which was read a first time.Mr. Brougham
366 in rising to move, that it be read a second time to-morrow, said, he wished to notice, and to allay an alarm which, he understood, his bill had excited amongst two very numerous and highly respectable classes of his majesty's subjects—the Protestant Dissenters and the Roman Catholics. The House would hardly believe the extent to which this alarm had gone, especially when they recollected the observations with which he had introduced the plan. It was supposed, in consequence of the system being connected with the Protestant ecclesiastical establishment, that it was intended to compel children of various denominations to attend Protestant worship. This feeling had operated so powerfully, that some members of these two respectable bodies had addressed queries to him on the subject. It was asked by one party, whether it was not true (a point, he begged leave to observe, directly contradicted by the report) that it was intended to compel Roman Catholics to send their children to Protestant schools and Protestant worship? and certain dissenters seemed to consider this as a bill introduced for the purpose of "rooting out the last remains of religious liberty in this country." With respect to the Test act, as it affected dissenters, he would offer no observations on this occasion. But he thought the expression "to root out the last remains of religious liberty in this country," was exceedingly strong, when the dissenters were allowed, by an annual indemnity act, to get rid of the sacramental test. He would, however, tell those individuals, and if any of them happened to be present, he hoped they would recollect the declaration, that there was not a man in the House, nor in the country, more decidedly adverse to any thing harsh or intolerant than he was. Nor was
366Mr. Brougham,
 said, if it could not be regarded as a matter of course, he would give notice for to-morrow.Mr. Brougham
 said, he was sorry that it should be viewed in that light; he had himself deemed it a matter of course, and had not anticipated any objection. The consequence of not acceding to his application would be, that no member of that House would hereafter appear in cases of appeal or writs of error at the bar of the other House, as, in duty to his client, he should feel himself compelled to enforce the standing order upon every occasion.Mr. Brougham
364 said, he wished to bring under the consideration of the House, a matter immediately falling within the scope and intent of two of its standing orders. With a view of protecting themselves against great abuse, every member of that House had been prohibited, by those standing orders, from attending as counsel at the bar of the House of Lords; The first standing order referred to common law proceedings, and the other to judicial proceedings by bill. These rules were laid down at a period when it was necessary to raise their privileges to a high ground, and the practice had been during the last century, ever since the year 1710, for members of that House to attend without let or hindrance, in their profestional capacity in the House of Lords. This, however, had not been the case with respect to bills; and for the best reason—because those bills had been or must come before them as members of parliament. Still, if the principle were extended to all cases whatever, great inconvenience must arise—an inconvenience that must be obvious from the mere etiquette of the profession. Another purpose for which the standing order was framed was to guard against an improper influence with respect to private bills exercised in the other House by the members of that; and he certainly had no wish to open the door wider than it now stood for the admission of such bills. His proposition now was, that the case he had to submit furnished fair ground for an exception to the rule. It was on behalf of her majesty's law officers that he made his appeal;
364Mr. Brougham
375 declared, that if the noble lord now found the way for mercy more easy, he had no wish to say any thing further; but that, if the question should come to a division, he should feel bound to vote against it. He wished the matter to be left with the Crown, and its responsible advisers. The grounds on which the motion was brought forward were not sufficient. A plea had been set up, that the offence was common. He did not agree in the propriety of it; but if it had weight, it should have been considered before the House proceeded to call upon the courts of justice to pronounce judgment. It was too much to say that that House, after having prosecuted, should turn round and say sentence should not be executed. He could not view any argument used on this question but as an impeachment of the sentence. It seemed to him, that it would be an act of extreme impropriety in the House to interpose, because no fact had been offered which was not known before. There was, besides, this material consideration—there was, on such prosecutions, nothing of willingness, either in the Crown or the judges, to proceed. It was generally conceived, that prosecutions ordered by that House were cases in which there was obvious reluctance in other quarters to proceed against the offence. If such were the general character of the cases, it could not be favourable to the interests of justice for the House to thwart the opinion of the judges in affairs submitted to them by the House. The whole argument resolved itself into a complaint of the severity of the sentence. He wished the House to remember the time when, in cases of libel, the punishment of imprisonment was inflicted for years upon years to a frightful amount; and yet no word of interference had been attempted in the House. He begged pardon, one member had ventured a word. The late Mr. Whitbread, of whom he could never think but with reverence and esteem, had incidentally mentioned one. of those cases, and well did he recollect the exclamation of all against
375Mr. Abercromby
363 said, he was sorry to trouble the House with any thing that referred personally to himself. On a former occasion he had brought under their notice a breach of privilege with which his name was connected in "The Morning Herald" newspaper. At that time he had refrained from making a complaint, and merely mentioned the subject by way of admonition. He had afterwards seen the gentleman, who avowed that he was the person who reported his speech on that occasion. Indeed, the gentleman, when he spoke with him, talked of his situation and condition very unreservedly. But he (Mr. M.) was not prepared to put the matter to issue on the principle of a trial by battle. The gentleman used the following expression;—"In future, Mr. Martin, you shall have no cause of complaint; we shall lay down the pen when you speak." What he said then was, that he should be very much obliged to him not to report his speeches at all, if they were to be done in the way he complained of. In the same paper of this day the reporter had made him utter sentiments which it would not become any man to use who was not a fit subject for a certain receptacle. In consequence
363Mr. R. Martin
 said, he had hoped that the bill would have been removed altogether from the table. He contended, that the measure was a part of the military system ministers were establishing throughout the country. The embodying an army by the East-India company was one of the last acts towards a military despotism he had expected. Ministers were now repeating what they had done 25 years ago, with this difference; that then an army was embodied to fight the French; now, it was marshalled to subdue a distressed population. It had been said, that the disaffected had brought these military measures upon themselves; but such an assertion was both indiscreet and unjust, since parliament itself had been the great instrument of oppression. The real nostrum to cure discontent was economy and a removal of the burden of taxation; yet instead of doing so, the East-India company, itself a grievance to the mercantile interest, by monopolizing the trade to China, was made to raise a force to support the government, which supported them. It would be much more becoming in the company to reduce their expenses, and look forward to the day when their charter would not be renewed. He would move, "that the bill be read a third time on this day six months."Mr. Creevey
374 observed, that sir M. Lopez was overwhelmed with domestic affliction, which, with his confinement, had made a deep impression on his health and constitution, and had brought him near to the
374Mr. Burrell
 said, that Mr. Swann had two children at death's door, upon whom he was incapacitated, by his imprisonment, from bestowing his attention at so awful a time. He would support the motion.Mr. Money
 said, it was not now the time to enter into the question whether the East India Company was a grievance or not; it was sufficient for him that it existed under the sanction of parliament. The force in question was not of a new description, but was composed of men who were under the obligation of self-interest to unite the character of good citizens and good soldiers. It was a measure to enable the Company to protect the immense property in their warehouses, and at times to afford their aid to the civil power.Mr. Money
 supported the motion, and urged, that the same measure of mercy should be granted to Mr. Swann, who had been lately re-elected to that House, in a manner that was equally honourable to his constituents and to himself. There had also been a serious calamity in the family of Mr. Swann, since his imprisonment commenced, which formed an additional claim to the generous consideration of the House. If some remission of his sentence were extended to Mr. Swann, it would, under such circumstances, be a most seasonable and acceptable indulgence.Mr. W. Peel
367 said, he had no doubt that what his learned friend had stated with respect to the feeling of the Roman Catholics was true. But, if it were not for his learned friend's declaration, he should have conceived it impossible, looking to the feeling which pervaded the House, that the Roman Catholics could have adopted such a monstrous idea as that Protestant schools were to be established, and that they would be obliged to send their children to those schools. His learned friend had neither said nor insinuated any such thing, but the very reverse. With respect, however, to the Protestant dissenters, he was well aware that much alarm prevailed amongst them as to the general structure and bearing of the bill. But that alarm had not, as far as he knew, induced them to go so far as to use the expression which his learned friend had quoted, or any thing like it. He knew
367Mr. W. Smith
l said, it was shameful to see the manner in which the inspection of the interior of this edifice was, as it were, let out by two-pences; no one felt more disgust at such conduct than he did; but the dean and chapter could not be expected to lay out, as the public had done, 41,000lMr. W. Smith
393 in explanation, complained that his right hon. friend had strangely misrepresented him. In the first place, in speaking of aid from military force, he had distinctly said, that the Spanish people had delivered themselves with little aid from regular military force of their own; it was far from his intention in that expression to allude to the British army, of whom he had always spoken as
393Sir J. Mackintosh,
390389388387386 was sure that honourable gentlemen would be disposed to concur with him in thinking it a matter of profound regret, that a subject of such immense importance should have only been able to command so thin an attendance of members, and so languid an interest, as it seemed likely to excite. He did not know what might be the exact cause of so unfortunate a difference in the opinions of members of that House upon
390389388387386Sir James Mackintosh
 concurred with the noble secretary for foreign affairs. The case of Mr. Swann was certainly the hardest.Sir J. Yorke
 said, that early in the next session he would bring under the consideration of the House, the state of Westminster Abbey and St. Paul's.Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, he wished to put a question to the right hon. gentleman opposite. A number of fine trees which had long stood an ornament in St. Margaret's Church yard, had been recently cut down, and he was informed that they were cut down for a reason disgraceful to the dean and chapter of Westminster; they were cut down, if he were rightly informed, for the purpose of creating a space intended to be let at a high price to persons who might be anxious to view the coronation. Those trees had stood for many years an ornament to the venerable fabric which they shaded; and as to the fabric itself, on looking into the interior of Westminster Abbey—on viewing the state of those monuments, which were an ornament of the age, and an evidence at once of the gratitude of the country, and of the high heroic and patriot virtues which called that gratitude forth—it was, he said, most painful to see the disgraceful manner in which those monuments, as well as the interior entire building, were neglected.Sir M. W. Ridley
396 said, the dean and chapter had all the advantages, whilst the public were obliged to meet the expences of Westminster Abbey. He considered the neglect of that fine edifice as most scandalous and disgraceful, and a fit subject for the reprobation of that House. If on any occasion an application should be made to parliament for the repairs of Westminster
396Sir J. Newport
373 felt desirous of establishing an inference that, whatever became of the motion, the Crown, in consequence of its having been made, would feel more at liberty to extend mercy respecting a sentence occasioned by the interposition of that House. It was that circumstance that distinguished this case from all others, and exempted the interference of the House from the character of strange anomaly which would belong to their conduct if they interfered with the royal mercy in general cases. In the present case the House had made itself the prosecutor—as far, at least, as the judgment went; and he hoped that the punishment would go far to prevent practices that tended to corrupt the country in the exercise of its best rights. He could not therefore understand why the House could not interfere as any other prosecutor might, for mercy. Another consideration, if not for taking away the crime, at least for
373Sir T. Acland
397 was brought to the bar, where he received the following Reprimand from Mr. Speaker, and was ordered to be discharged out of custody:397R. A. Jervis
 would not pronounce any decisive opinion upon this resolution, beyond saying, that as the case stood, he thought it clear it ought not to be put without serious consideration. If the law as it now stood was decisive on the point, the resolution was unnecessary. If the law were doubtful, surely they did not mean to set it right by a mere declaratory resolution.Mr. Abercromby
 observed, he had not said the law was doubtful, for it was quite clear money could not be legally given in the manner it had been given at this election.Dr. Phittimore
 said, he could see nothing doubtful in the proposition. The bill, which was before the House some time ago, did not relate to loss of time, but to travelling expenses. Even the payment of those expenses was, in his opinion, illegal. The giving meat or drink upon the road was evidently an offence against the Treating act, and ought to render the election void. The only question here was, whether the pains of bribery were incurred, or whether it was a minor offence? If, as there was reason to believe, a mistake was prevalent on this subject, it ought to beset right by a declaration of the House—a course which had been repeatedly followed on similar occasions. If the practice of giving money for loss of time were tolerated, it would be much better to repeal at once all the statutes against bribery at elections.Mr. Wynn
 thought the present course objectionable. It was not so clear to him that remuneration for loss of time in going to vote was so decidedly against the law as the hon. gentleman thought. At all events, he had strong objections to this mode of settling the law by a declaratory resolution.Mr. Wrottesley
 said, the case was so clear that he had at first thought the resolution unnecessary, but the doubts which he had heard raised convinced him of the necessity of it.Mr. W. Smith
399 thought the resolution was
399Mr. Lockhart
 agreed with the views taken by the hon. member who spoke last. The House ought to take care that every resolution which it passed should be binding on its committees. By a declared opinion, such as that which they were invited to come to, they would appear as if attempting to make law, and to control the effects of an act of parliament. He thought the proposition, to say the least of it, crude and ill-digested.Mr. Warren
 explained. He had said, that every payment of money to an elector for loss of time was distinctly illegal. It was not only an offence against the statute, but against the law of parliament, as frequently laid down in the resolutions of that House, and which he would maintain it was the duty of the House to lay down, without waiting for the concurrence of any other authority.Mr. Wynn
400ll said, he had brought forward the resolution as the organ of the committee in the absence of the chairman. An inveterate practice had been proved to subsist in the borough of Grantham, of giving 7400llDr. Phillimore
401 said, the case of the queen was so peculiar, it was of such transcendent importance, that if there were two honourable members in that House to whose legal care her majesty wished to intrust her interests in the House of Lords, it was quite sufficient to state that fact to induce the House to dispense with the standing order, and to grant the necessary leave. But he conceived the same privilege should be conceded to the other side, if gentlemen, members of that House, were called on to exercise their talents in support of this important bill. In that case it would be proper that the individuals thus selected should exercise their functions in that House with the same reserve, and with the same understanding, that the gentlemen opposite would exercise their's; namely, that they should discuss the question professionally, and not interfere by
401Lord Castlereagh
402 said, it was necessary that a special permission should be granted to members of that House to appear at the bar of the House of Lords, if they acted in conformity with the standing order. It appeared, on reference to the earliest period to which their Journals reached, that it had been the constant practice to allow no member of the House of Commons to attend at the bar of the House of Lords without the special leave of this House. So early as the year 1694 several cases of this kind occurred. In one of these the Speaker stated, as a ground for this permission, that, in the reign of queen Elizabeth, the same principle had been acted on, and he had himself been permitted to appear before the Lords. The extreme inconvenience of extending this system was, however, evident; and therefore the House ought to be cautious in granting such permission. It was highly desirable that members should come to the discussion of bills In that House with minds completely unbiassed; and when they had acted as counsel in the other House, whether for or against a bill, they could not be supposed to be wholly unprejudiced. It was on this ground that the resolution of 1666 was entered into; which resolution he took to be strictly declaratory of the law of parliament on the subject. It was a matter worthy of the consideration of the House, whether it would not be proper that this standing order, which only extended to bills coming to that House from the House of Lords—bills which had not originated in the House of Commons—should be made to apply to all bills whatsoever. The inconvenience that might result from the existing state of the order was obvious, since members of the House of Commons might be retained to act as counsel on a bill, when it came before the House of Lords, with a view to obtaining their previous assistance in the Commons. The possibility of such a circumstance ought to be guarded against. Permission to ap-
402Mr. Wynn
403 did not think that any distinction could be drawn between the case of the king's attorney and solicitor-general and that of the attorney and solicitor-general of her majesty. The king's attorney and solicitor-general were officers appointed to act in great public prosecutions, and had a right, as officers of the Crown, to exercise their legal functions in
403Lord Castlereagh
 expressed his apprehension, that notwithstanding the concluding provision of the noble lord's motion, the adoption of it was but too likely to be drawn into precedent in other cases in which the Crown might feel an interest in supporting any measure in the House of Lords, while in the former motion no such apprehension could be entertained, as no such case was likely to recur, and this formed another marked distinction between the two motions.Mr. Wynn
 remarked, that the noble lord had not coupled with his motion any statement that the king's attorney and solicitor-generals should not vote upon the bill of pains and penalties in that House, if such a bill were brought down from the other House of parliament.Mr. Williams
 said, that he had stated at the outset that such was the distinct understanding.Lord Castlereagh
llls.ls.l rose for move for the production of the minutes of the evidence taken before the finance committee of last session, upon the conduct of the Audit Office. The committee, he said, had taken no notice of the question of fees, a subject which had been minutely investigated in the report of the committee in 1810. The right hon. gentleman had produced a bill, in which certainly some fees were abolished, that is to say, two fees; one of 2llls.ls.lMr. Bennet
405 said, that there was certainly some part of the evidence which the committee had held back, and they had done so, because they felt that the production of this evidence would have a tendency to affect private feelings, and expose private differences without producing any beneficial result to the public. With respect to the establishment of the Audit-office, a very large mass of accounts was now in progress, and would be brought forward at no very
405Mr. Davies Gilbert
"Hᔣcest in gremio victos quae sola recepit.'416415414"——Britannos hospitibus feros."413412411And stammering babes are taught to bless thy name."Swift, unbespoken pomps thy steps proclaim,And, never satisfied with seeing, bless."Thee, Saviour, thee, a nation's vows confess410409408of407406 said:—Sir; I feel more than usual reluctance in offering myself to the attention of the House on this occasion. I observe that this great question is treated with a neglect and indifference for which I am at a loss to account, Even the noble lord, the father of this measure, seems to have left it to its fate—[here lord Castlereagh entered] I am glad to see that the noble secretary has thought it worth his while just to comedown and attend upon his own offspring, although he will not deign to protect it. No, Sir, he will offer no excuses, no pretexts, for prolonging this odious, this unconstitutional enactment. Thrice has he been called upon by some of the most distinguished members of this House, to give some reasons for continuing this bill; but he has been called upon in vain; and like another considerable character, not in real but dramatic life, he will give no reasons "on compulsion"—no, "not if reasons were as plenty as blackberries." Sir; I have not the vanity to hope that I shall extort from him that which he has refused to others much more likely to make his lordship speak; but although lam well aware of my own incompetency, and although I know the almost proverbial folly of "arguing with the master of twenty legions," still a sense of duty induces me not to withhold from the House my sentiments upon a question so materially affecting the rights, and, what is more, the character of the English nation. Sir, it seems resolved, on the other side of the House, that we shall accept this proposition, as if it were self evident. Let me beg the House to remark how entirely the friends of the measure have abstained from any thing like a new argument, although there is nothing which assimilates present circumstances to those which] formed the excuse of former alien bills. We have had just three speeches on this bead—one from the noble secretary of state
"Hᔣcest in gremio victos quae sola recepit.'416415414"——Britannos hospitibus feros."413412411And stammering babes are taught to bless thy name."Swift, unbespoken pomps thy steps proclaim,And, never satisfied with seeing, bless."Thee, Saviour, thee, a nation's vows confess410409408of407406Mr. Hobhouse
 complained of the regulation respecting the importation of Irish spirits as being most injurious to the Irish distillers, and a palpable infraction of the Articles of Union.Mr. M. Fitzgerald
 agreed with his right hon. friend, that the act of Union was in this instance violated. He complained of the conduct of the chancellor of the exchequer as amounting to a breach of national faith: the clause which he had first introduced carried the appearance of benefit to Ireland, but the hope that had been raised for a moment was about to be extinguished.Mr. D. Brown
418 maintained, that in the whole of this question he had acted for the public at large, and without regard to any particular interests. He held it to be material to prevent, as far as possible, the consumption of spirits of an extraordinary strength, and such was his object in this bill. In Ire-
418The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 concurred with his right hon. friend in thinking that justice would be done to Ireland, but was of opinion that the chancellor of the exchequer did not understand the question. Ireland had, according to the act of Union, a right to import the spirit without any alteration or reduction into the English market, and therefore he could not see the necessity for any investigation by a committee.Mr. C. Hutchinson
 concurred with the opinion expressed by the hon. gentleman. There ought to be but one feeling, to do what was right and just, and he hoped his countrymen would never form themselves into a body, in opposition to the interests of Great Britain. No arrangement could be expected to be permanent which was contrary to the rights of either party. It appeared to him that his right hon. friend's clause was either nugatory, or worse than nugatory; and he submitted to him, that it would be more advantageous to confine-the measure at present to what the law confessedly was, and to let that law take its course till their meeting after the adjournment.Lord Castlereagh
 consented that the bill should pass without this proviso.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the discussion on this question had not originated with the people of Ireland, who had only come, after a long period, to claim a remedy against an infraction of the act of Union. If a measure equivalent to this clause, violating in spirit, though not in letter, the article of Union to which he alluded, should be brought forward at any future time, he should feel himself perfectly at liberty to protest against it. He hoped the explanation of the noble lord was distinctly understood; and that the chancellor of the Exchequer would not introduce any measure to contravene the concession that had been made.Mr. M. Fitzgerald
 expressed himself perfectly satisfied with the fair and candid statement of the chancellor of the Exchequer.Mr. V. Fitzgerald
 supported the bill.Mr. C. Smith
 would not oppose this motion, although he was at a loss to conceive upon what ground it was proposed. It was observed by the noble lord, that the attorney and solicitor-general were counsel for the public as well as for the Crown. But every member of the House of Lords was, as well as every one of the judges, of counsel for the public, while it must be allowed that the Crown had quite enough of representation in that House in the great officers of state. Where, then, was the necessity for calling in the aid of the king's attorney and solicitor-generals?Mr. Brougham
 said, he rose, pursuant to notice, to move that he and his learned friend should have leave given them, as her majesty's attorney and solicitor-general, being members of that House, to appear in her behalf at the bar of the House of Lords. The learned gentleman moved, "That leave be given to her majesty's attorney and solictor general, members of this House, to plead as counsel at the bar of the House of Lords against the bill now pending in that House concerning her majesty, under the particular circumstances of the case; and that the said leave be not, in time coming, drawn into a precedent." The learned gentleman observed, that he had introduced the latter part of the motion, because the House would recollect, that their order was more especially directed against private bills than appeals, and he thought it was proper that the salvo should be co-extensive with their standing order.Mr. Brougham
417were strongly condemned the bill. He considered it to grow out of a mysterious and undefined attempt to hunt down the liberal minded men—the whigs of the continent—who 417wereMr. Monck
viz. contended, that the footing on which the matter would now rest was very fair, viz.Mr. Huskisson
419 thought that the letter of the act of Union might operate against its spirit in this instance, and quoted the authority of Mr. Pitt in support of the con-
419Mr. W. Smith
 spoke against the clause, and insisted on the right of Ireland to the benefit of the clause adopted in 1817.Mr. Shaw
 said, he had heard no arguments to make him view the bill in a more favourable light than he formerly did. He was glad the clauses which had been proposed had been rejected, as he thought it better the bill should pass with all its obnoxiousness about it. Of one thing he was certain, that whilst it continued to be the law of the land, the millions of the continent would consider this country as at war with their liberties.Sir R. Wilson
 after stating the claims of the Irish distillers, maintained that the law, as it existed in 1817, ought to be preserved, and as Ireland must submit to the disadvantages arising out of the act of union, she was entitled to its benefits also. He expressed a full conviction that justice would be done to Ireland, though the members of that country did not exceed one hundred.Sir J. Newport,
datal said, he would oppose the bill in every stage. Though the money to be voted for this object was trifling, yet in the present state of the country every 1,000datalMr. Caleraft
l426 agreed with the hon. gentleman, that in the present situation of the country, any expenses which could be avoided ought not
l426The Chancellor of the Exchequer
428per diemd.427 said, it was no matter where the barracks were to be built, for how much or for how little money; he objected to building any new barracks. He objected to them for the precise reasons for which the noble secretary at war had recommended them. He thought it highly unconstitutional to destroy the connection between the citizen and the soldier; he thought it essential to our liberties, as well as consonant to our constitution, that "a circulation of feelings and interests, according to the constitutional language of Judge Blackstone, should be kept up between the army and the people, between the citizen and the soldier." Without this connection no country's liberties were safe while it kept up a standing army. He was not ashamed to avow these opinions, although they might be out of fashion in that House. They had been the feelings and opinions of the greatest men who had distinguished this country—of sir G. Savile and lord Chatham. They were the opinions of one whose writings, genius, eloquence, and public spirit cast a lustre over the period in which he lived—he meant sir William Jones. He wished the public opinions of that great man, enforced as they were by his virtuous life and his profound learning, were engraved in letters of gold in that House. The noble secretary at war had thought it desirable that a corporate spirit should be encouraged by means of barracks in the army. But this spirit he thought most dangerous in time of peace. It proceeded from the worst principles; it led to the worst events. It led to a military government. The military governments of the continent were all crumbling around us, and we ought, therefore, to apply the adage to ourselves. The only military government that remained undisturbed was the Turkish government, and it continued so because it was fortunate enough to shut out civilization and intellect. Where civilization
428per diemd.427Lord Nugent
 in seconding the motion, observed, that the principle of exclusion from office, on account of a difference in religious opinion, had always appeared to him an anomaly in a free constitution and an enlightened age. He himself had a petition from that respectable body the Roman Catholics of England; and in declining to present it this session, he was influenced only by a consideration of the awful and immediate importance of that question which now engaged the public mind. He must, however, be permitted to say of it, that it contained a most satisfactory answer to the often-renewed charge of a divided allegiance.Lord Nugent,
425424 said, he had to present a petition from a respect-
425424Mr. W. Smith
 said, he should, in the next session, bring before the attention of the House, the situation of a class of his majesty's subjects which might, and ought to be ameliorated. They had last night heard mention of the situation of the Catholics and Dissenters; he should shortly call their attention to the situation of the Jews, who now laboured under disabilities which would be hardly believed to exist in such an age as this, and especially in London, and other cities of the empire.Mr. Hothouse
 said, he had learned that one reason for the great expense with which the building of these barracks was to be attended was, that a wall was to be built inclosing a large tract of ground. He wished to know how many acres were to be thus inclosed.Mr. Calcraft
 allowed that the building of a boundary wall formed a considerable item in the estimate. He did not know the quantity of ground inclosed, but he believed it was eight acres.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought it was most improvident to spend a large sum in building a wall round eight acres of land for the accommodation of 400 men. He should divide the committee on the main clause.Mr. Calcraft
 said, the wall was to be built round a piece of ground for the exercise of the troops. The barracks in question were not like those in Hyde Park, near a place where they could exercise their horses, as the whole of the Regent's Park was laid out in inclosures or plantations.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
ll said, that if new barracks were to be built, they certainly ought to be built with the utmost economy. In the present case the wall seemed to him to be superfluous, and he was of opinion that the whole contract betrayed great mismanagement. If the money had been raised at the present market rate of interest, the country would have been burdened with an annuity of only 3,000llMr. Wilson
 rose to state to the committee his plan for regulating in future the process of distillation in Ireland. The plan would consist of three parts, and with regard to each of them he should submit a resolution on the groundwork of a distinct legislative measure. The first would relate to large stills, of a capacity to contain 100 gallons; the second to smaller stills, not working above 2,000 gallons in the year; and the third to the more effectual prevention of illicit distillation. The right hon. gentleman particularly observed, with respect to the last measure, that it would enable persons to seize unlicensed stills, and, having done so, they must apply to the grand jury of the county, who were to make a presentment for their remuneration, which would be subject to the revision of the judges. The right hon. gentleman concluded by moving, "That the chairman be directed to ask leave to bring in a bill to provide for the more effectually collecting and securing the duties on spirits distilled in Ireland, in stills exceeding 100 gallons."The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, a number of Irish members had waited with great anxiety to know what measure the right hon. gentleman intended to propose with respect to small stills. Their expectations were, however, disappointed, since it appeared that small stills were not to be allowed within twenty miles of the greater stills, and also that the small distiller was to be restricted to the distillation of 2,000 gallons yearly. The manufacture of spirits, to that extent would not pay the distiller the fair interest on his capital. There was another objectionable point in this new plan. It appeared that the instrument to prevent fraud with reference to the strength of spirits, was to be applied to small stills only, while the owners of those of large capacity were allowed to do as they pleased. The effect of this would be to deter men of small capital from entering into a pursuit where they were likely to be met by such powerful competition.Mr. Chichester
476 hoped that the suggestions which were thrown out by different members for Ireland, on this very important subject, would be weighed and properly appreciated by the chancellor of the exchequer. That right hon. gentleman was undertaking a very difficult task—the task of regulating the spirit trade between the two countries. If he could assist the revenue, and at the same time satisfy the distiller, he should rejoice very much at his success. Any regulation by which
476Mr. Hutchinson
477 remarked, that the case referred to by the gallant general was that of an officer, who, having been found guilty of an assault, had suffered the proper punishment. He was afterwards tried under lord Ellenborough's act, with another person, for wounding a man, and he was capitally convicted. His case was afterwards considered, and, on the recom-
477Mr. Grant
 was surprised that the gallant general should have made these conservations at so late a period of the session, particularly as a petition had been presented on the subject, and a bill was afterwards proposed which had been suffered to drop. He was not ready at that moment to enter on any debate respecting the conduct of the excise-officers, but he should be obliged to the gallant general if he would restate the circumstances relative to a person being wounded.Mr. Grant
474 thought this pretence for building a high wall round eight acres of ground was absurd. There were near
474Mr. C. Calvert
 said, that three persons, who were in the pursuit of individuals engaged in illicit distillation, had overtaken a man in a pass, with a wall on one side and a river on the other. The man surrendered to their command, and yet one of the officers shot him through the body. This officer, he should observe, had been previously tried and convicted of an assault.General Hart
 did not think the present measure would be useful. The quantity of spirits which the small distiller would be allowed to manufacture would produce so small a profit, that few individuals would embark in the trade. With respect to the still-fine system, it placed the country in a situation almost as bad as if it were invaded by a foreign enemy. Persons had been appointed to the situation of collecting officers of the worst character. On a former occasion he had stated the case of a person who had been wounded by one of the individuals to whom he had alluded, but who had afterwards been pardoned, although condemned in a public court of justice.General Hart
473 presented a petition from Olive Serres Wilmot. The petitioner stated herself to be the legtimate daughter of the late duke of Cumberland; she asserted that she possessed a document to prove the solemnization of a marriage between her mother (who was Julia Wilmot, the
473Mr. P. Moore
 said, it was trifling with the House and with the country to propose a vote of this kind at a moment when economy was so loudly demanded in every department of the state.Sir H. Parnell
475 was of opinion that the system of warehousing, which appeared to be connected with one of the bills, was in
475Sir J. Newport
 rose to second the motion that the petition should be brought up. At the present moment the statements contained in it should, he thought, be especially noticed, when there was lying on their table a list of those members who were supposed to be returned by corrupt influence to that House. This was the more necessary, because the House of Lords were now about to give judgment on one of the most important measures that was ever submitted to the legislature —he meant the bill of Pains and Penalties. The House ought to take care, if that bill were brought down to them from the Lords, that it was not again submitted, in effect, though not in reality, to the same individuals, in the persons of those whom they had caused to be returned, by whom it had already been decided in the other House. If, as was stated in a petition which he had recently presented, 198 members were, in one way or other, returned by the influence of the House of Lords, what would the country think, should the bill of Pains and Penalties pass their lordships' House, when it was submitted to those whose elections were secured by such influence? People would be of opinion that the measure merely went through the same hands a second time.Mr. Hobhouse
481 entertained great doubts as to the propriety of receiving such a petition. No person was less willing than himself to interfere with the right of petitioning, but there were statements in the paper, the truth of which he could nut ad-
481Mr. Robinson
479478 said, he regretted extremely the absence of the noble secretary of state (lord Castlereagh); but he was, nevertheless, obliged in his absence to bring under the notice of the House a subject which he should rather have wished had fallen into other and abler hands. It became his duty, however, in consequence of the absence of her majesty's solicitor-general, private notice having been given to the noble lord to whom he had alluded, that such a motion would this evening be made—to submit the subject, which was one of considerable importance to the judgment of the House. The circumstances out of which the motion he was about to make arose were as follows. In 1808, his late majesty was pleased to order a service of plate to be made, which he afterwards bestowed on her present majesty, who was then princess of Wales. She continued to use it from 1808 to 1814, as her own private and personal property. On proceeding to the continent, in 1814, her majesty placed it under the charge of Mr. Mash, of the chamberlain's office. On her return to this country she caused application to be made for the restoration of the plate, which then became necessary for her use and convenience, and he greatly regretted to state that the lord chamberlain was pleased to authorize this answer—"that the plate could not be returned to her majesty, because it was the property of the Crown, as would be made to appear from official documents." Her majesty naturally felt herself greatly aggrieved by the treatment she had received from government; but little did she expect that, in a case where her comfort and convenience were concerned, nice points of etiquette would have been raised, for the purpose of de-
479478Dr. Lushington
 said, if he had received the same notice of the learned gentleman's intended motion as had been given to his noble friend, he would have sought for information on the subject, and would doubtless have been prepared to give an explanation. He was, however, ready to state all the information which he at present possessed. It was unquestionably true that a service of plate was presented by his late majesty to the princess of Wales for her use, which service was placed in the apartments occupied by her in Kensington-palace; but that plate, having been paid for out of the civil-list revenue, could not be considered as the queen's private property, but as the public property of the Crown. He had, he conceived, some reason to complain of the course adopted by the learned gentleman, who had evidently taken the House by surprise. He thought it was extremely unfair to take advantage of the absence of one hon. member, in order to call on another to enter into an explanation, and also to enter into an engagement with respect to a transaction which the latter was not aware would have been brought before the House. He should therefore suggest, that the motion should be merely considered as a, notice for Monday.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that as the right hon. gentleman had stated that on Monday an opportunity for explanation would offer itself, he acceded to his proposition, and on that day would repeat the motion which he had just made, and which he now begged leave to withdraw.Dr. Lushington
485 said, on looking to the petition, as printed, he found that the list
485Mr. Hobhouse
483 put it to the Speaker, as a point of order, whether, under the existing regulations of the House, the petition could be received? The petition stated that a number of members were not legally returned. Was it not, then, an election petition? And, if so,
483Mr. Luskington
 said, he had very recently presented a petition of a similar description, which was laid on the table. It did not indeed contain the names of the individuals who were unduly elected, but it recited the names of the peers who exerted their influence to send members to that House, and the places where that influence was made use of. Therefore it was, in some degree, opposed to the order to which the secretary for the Treasury had referred, but that circumstance did not operate against its being received. With respect to the list contained in this petition, he knew nothing about it. But what had been said ought not, he conceived, to prevent it from being laid on the table. Statements contained in other petitions, on different subjects, were occasionally untrue, but that did not cause their rejection. The interference of peers ought to be guarded against; this, he believed, was provided for by the statute of Westminster. If it were not to be discouraged, what was the meaning of the declaration in the Bill of Bights that "elections should be free?" Was it that they should not be free? that elections were to be influenced by peers, whose power, arising from their great property, was notorious? How would it appear to the country, at the present juncture, if this petition were refused? Even the present parliament might wish to stand well with the country, and the rejecting such a petition was not the best mode of effecting that object. The petitioner did not recommend resistance. He merely said, the necessary inference was, that their acts could not be considered fair and constitutional laws, as the members who passed them were not duly elected. If he had stated an intention to resist, he might be punished for it. The House ought, even in its magnanimity, to suffer the petition to lie on the table. If there were any insult in it, that was another thing; but, for his own part, he could not perceive any.Mr. Hobhouse
 whose name was also mentioned, said, he owed it to the borough for which he was elected to declare that the town of Guildford was not a proprietary borough, in which the election was carried by the influence of any peer or peers. An assertion to the contrary was false and unfounded. He and his colleague were requested to come forward by a large body of the respectable electors. He repeated that the borough of Guildford was not governed by the influence of peers.Mr. Serjeant Onslow,
482primâ facie said, he was totally ignorant and uninformed of the facts contained in the petition. He knew nothing of either of the boroughs alluded to by the members opposite, and, in presenting the petition, he thought the only thing he was bound to show was, that it was of such a nature as ought to be received by the House. The petitioner complained of an illegal practice, that of peers returning members to sit in the House of Commons. It was not necessary for him to state this as a positive and ascertained fact. It was enough for him to assert that there was a 482primâ facieMr. Bright
480l presented a petition from an individual who signed himself "James Mills, a British Freeholder." The petition was brought up and read. It commenced by complaining of the burdens imposed on the people, and of the enormous expenditure of the late reign, amounting to 2,300,000,000480lMr. Bright
484 doubted very much whether this was not an election petition. It stated that a number of members were unduly elected, and it called on the
484Mr. Lockhart
 felt it necessary to declare, as his name was mentioned amongst those who were said to be unduly elected, that he was returned to sit in that House in the most fair and uncorrupt manner.Mr. W. Dundas
 wished to state the circumstances relative to the petition which had just been referred to by an hon. member (Mr. Hobhouse). He was the more anxious to do this, because he was personally concerned in the transaction. The petition, on being presented, was brought up to the table, read short, and ordered to be printed. He was subsequently applied to, by one of the officers of the House, to know whether a list of peers, who were said to nominate members to that House, and which was affixed to the petition, should also be printed? He answered, that no motion having been made relative to that list, it was in the breast of the House to give or refuse an order for printing it, on application being made to them; and therefore he could give no opinion whether it should be printed or not. The petition was printed but the list was left out, and in that state it at present stood. It would be found that the petition was not all that was contained in the parchment laid on their table. There was also a list of peers who were said to interfere in the return of members of parliament, which, not having been read to the House, and, in fact; not being in possession of the House, he could not exercise any discretion, one way or the other, with respect to its being printed.The Speaker
517"enfans perdus;"516unjust515 regretted that a subject like this, which had no connection with the merits of the great case, should be brought forward in the present agitated state of the public feeling. On the question of her majesty's innocence, he wished to be understood as having formed no opinion. He gave great credit to his noble friend for the candour of his avowal, that after the statement of the noble lord, the motion ought not to be persevered in; or, in other words, that the noble lord had made out a complete case. That frank avowal did his noble friend great credit. A more complete answer, or a more incontrovertible case than that of the noble lord, he (Mr. H.) had certainly never heard; at the same time he thought that the decorous manner in which the hon. and learned gentleman had that evening argued the question on his side, was very much to his honour. It would be presumptuous of him to use such language in speaking of the hon. and learned gentleman, did we not live in times in which, in the most grave assemblies, the most indecorous and improper behaviour and arguments were witnessed. From persons so misconducting themselves, the hon. and learned gentleman had honourably distinguished himself. Still, however, he could not help regretting the language which, according to those channels of information, by which what occurred there was so accurately conveyed to the public, had been
517"enfans perdus;"516unjust515Mr. Hutchinson
497 said, he held two petitions in his hand, relative to the claims of his Roman Catholic fellow subjects, which he did not mean at present to lay before the House. He would not expatiate on the subject to which those petitions related, but would rather apply himself to explain why he did not now intend to bring them forward. One of those petitions was from the Ro-
497Mr. Plunkett
498 felt himself compelled to renew his opposition to this measure. The right hon. gentleman had told them, that, unless this bargain was completed, the Horse-Guards would be without barracks. This he denied; because they might still occupy the barracks which they previously had. The right hon. gentleman had thrown the blame of this proceeding on the contractor, who was
498Mr. Calcraft
 the contract, as an eligible one for the public.The Chancellor of the Exchequer defended
l. contended, that 5,400l.Mr. Wilson
l was bound to oppose a measure which would, for many years, cost the country 5,400lMr. Leonard
 appeared at the bar, and presented the petition relative to the proceedings against the queen, which had this day been agreed to by the lord-mayor, aldermen, and commoners of the city of London, in common-council assembled.Mr. Sheriff Rothwell
 said, the petition was agreed to by a very large majority of the common-council. Indeed, scarcely ten hands had been held up against it.Mr. Alderman Wood
504femme couverte,503bonâfidebonâfide502501500 said:—I rise, in pursuance of the notice which I gave to the House on Saturday, to move an
504femme couverte,503bonâfidebonâfide502501500Dr. Lushington
512511"That the lord chamberlain had no authority to allow any part thereof to be removed, as required by sir William Gell's order.""Sir William Gell is commanded by the princess of Wales to direct that her royal highness's plate, in the care of the lord chamberlain s department, shall be delivered to Mr. Hooper, her agent, for the purpose of being sent to her as quick as possible, as she has at present an absolute necessity for its use. Dated at Geneva, September 28th, 1814.""Mr. Mash presents his compliments, and sends an inventory of the king's plate, and requests the same may be immediately packed up for the purpose of being kept in the Jewel-office, until her royal high-ness's return from the continent.'510509508l507506505 regretted very much that he should have been absent on Saturday when the hon. and learned gentleman first made this motion; but still more did he lament both the mode in which it had been brought forward, and the course which the hon. and learned gentleman had thought fit to adopt in his absence. He certainly had received a letter from the queen's solicitor-general, communicating the intention to bring this motion on; but he would leave it to the judgment of the House to decide whether it was customary to submit a motion to parliament on a subject so immediately connected with the interior economy of the royal family, without having previously exhausted every other reasonable means of attaining the object in view, and whether such a course was likely to produce the desired effect. He would not impute any improper motives to the hon. and learned gentleman. The hon. and learned gentleman had been pleased to give him credit for entertaining proper feelings and sentiments on the subject, and he was disposed to render to the hon. and learned gentleman the same justice; but, with every disposition to view the hon. and learned gentleman's conduct fairly and liberally,
512511"That the lord chamberlain had no authority to allow any part thereof to be removed, as required by sir William Gell's order.""Sir William Gell is commanded by the princess of Wales to direct that her royal highness's plate, in the care of the lord chamberlain s department, shall be delivered to Mr. Hooper, her agent, for the purpose of being sent to her as quick as possible, as she has at present an absolute necessity for its use. Dated at Geneva, September 28th, 1814.""Mr. Mash presents his compliments, and sends an inventory of the king's plate, and requests the same may be immediately packed up for the purpose of being kept in the Jewel-office, until her royal high-ness's return from the continent.'510509508l507506505Lord Castlereagh
523522521520 was persuaded that, after the various observations which had been levelled at him in the course of the present discussion, the House would have the candour and kindness to indulge him for a few minutes. He could assure them, that he would not occupy their attention by any answer to the noble lord's personal remarks on him, or on the exercise of his humble talents. His character, as a legal adviser of her majesty, had been wholly unsought for by him. However, as notwithstanding his humble abilities, her majesty had been pleased to honour him with her selection, he would endeavour to discharge, whatever share might fall upon him, of the duties of her majesty's legal advisers, with fidelity and zeal. The manner in which he had brought forward his motion on Saturday, had not been accurately described by the noble lord. The facts were these; and he thought that he owed it to his own character to state them. On Friday he, for the first time, became acquainted with the circumstances connected with the plate. It was then settled between her majesty's solicitor-general and himself, that he (her majesty's solicitor-general) should make a motion on the subject on Saturday. It was not until late on Saturday that he (Dr. Lushington) was apprised by his hon. and learned friend that he was compelled to leave town, and that the task must therefore fall on his (Dr.
523522521520Dr. Lushington
524 observed, that the communication from the hon. and learned gentleman of his intention to make his motion on Saturday, although dated on Friday, did not reach his office until Saturday, and him personally until Saturday evening. He was at a loss to con-
524Lord Castlereagh
 was sure that the hon. and learned gentleman did not mean to put words into his mouth which he had never uttered; but he (Mr. Hutchinson) had distinctly stated, and he begged not to be misunderstood, that he had not formed any opinion on the merits of the great question. He was in the recollection of the House, if he had said of her majesty any thing which could justify the term of "fastidious opinions," which the hon. and learned gentleman had imputed to him by name—or at least as member for Cork. The whole of his argument had been confined to disapprobation of the advice under which the present motion had been made. He was convinced that her majesty supposed she had a right to the plate in question, but he decidedly disapproved of advice which tended to injure her majesty by the injudicious and imprudent agitation of the present question. It was totally unfounded to assert that he had said any thing to asperse the queen.Mr. Hutchinson
514513 although he was by no means satisfied with all the points of the noble lord's answer, he was ready to admit that in consequence of what had fallen from the noble lord upon the subject of this plate, the motion of his hon. and learned friend must fall to the ground. If he understood the noble lord right, he contended that his late majesty had not the power of alienating this Crown plate. If so, of course the queen could put in no claim of property for herself to plate so situated. He was perfectly convinced, however, that if her majesty had not supposed herself invested with the right of possessing this plate, she would never have put in the claim she had done respecting it. Her majesty had evidently all along thought the property to be hers, and provided for her own use. She had ordered it to be packed up; she had subsequently sent for it because she was impressed with that conviction. This opinion it now doubtless appeared was an error. If it were true that the late king never did order this plate for her majesty as a present, then, of course, there was an end to the claim which her majesty believed she had in this property. There were one or two observations, however, which he felt himself under the necessity of making in consequence of what had fallen from the noble lord. The noble lord had arraigned the conduct of the hon. and learned member who had introduced this subject very severely, and, he might say, unwarrantably, as coming forward with a complaint of an unusual kind, and unfit for parliamentary investigation, and the noble
514513Lord Archibald Hamilton,
 in explanation, observed, that his hon. friend had interpreted rather too largely what had fallen from him. What he had said was, that he understood from the statement of the noble lord opposite, that the king neither had given nor could give any plate under the circumstances in which the plate in question was placed. But he coupled with that declaration a statement, that it appeared to him that the inference from the reasoning used by the noble lord was, that the king could on no occasion make a present of plate; from which inference he totally dissented.Lord A. Hamilton,
518 declared, that he had never entered the House with more painful feelings than on that evening, impressed as he was with the conviction, that if the case which had been stated by the hon. and learned gentleman on Saturday were borne out by the fact, those who had advised his majesty on the occasion had rendered themselves deeply responsible for such advice. It was therefore a great relief to him, it must have been a great relief to the House, and even to the hon. and learned gentleman himself, to hear the satisfactory explanation of the noble lord. He hoped this circumstance would be a lesson to the public and to the House, and that they would guard against the attempts which were constantly making to delude and deceive, and to create a false impression on this subject. He felt called upon to acknowledge that,
518Mr. Stuart Wortley
 opposed the motion.Mr. R. Martin
519 said, that it was not competent to the Crown to dispose of any property in the custody of the lord chamberlain, as the property of the Crown, without the sanction of its responsible advisers. If his majesty had been advised by the board of Treasury to dispose of any plate deposited in the Jewel-office, a warrant signed by the Crown and countersigned by the Treasury, would be the only legal instrument for the conveyance of that plate. But in the transaction under consideration, that had not been the case. He (Mr. Huskisson) happened to be in the Treasury in 1808, when orders were given to fit up apartments in Kensington-palace for her majesty, then princess of Wales. Application was made in the usual way to the lord chamberlain, for furniture and other requisites for those apartments, and as a part of those requisities, for a suitable service of plate. The latter part of the application had occasioned a considerable discussion between the lord Chamberlain and the Treasury. He (Mr. Huskisson) had suggested to the lords of the Treasury that it might be desirable, with a view to a diminution of the expense, to ascertain whether there might not be in the possession of the lord chamberlain plate not used. An inquiry was accordingly made, and it was ascertained that the lord chamberlain had in his possession, as property of the Crown, plate which hid not been used since the time of king William. That plate was remodelled, and appropriated to the purpose required. To suppose for a moment that it was a personal present from his late majesty to the princess of Wales was a supposition wholly unsupported by facts. When the plate was delivered, in 1808, an entry (as described by his noble friend) was made by the lord chamberlain, that it was his
519Mr. Huskisson
541 rose to make his promised motion relative to the disposal of brokerage paid for the stock transactions of the accountant-general of the court of Chancery. He observed, that the duties of the accountant-general were paid for not only by salary, but by a division of the brokerage (paid on stock transactions) with the broker usually employed by the court. Whether the sum thus received were great or small, he considered the practice an objectionable one. The accountant-general ought not to be remunerated in that mixed manner; he should be paid directly by salary.
541Mr. Calcraft
542l. did not intend to make any opposition to a motion of this sort, which, so far as it could be complied with, was almost a motion of course; but he wished to show how utterly impossible it was to comply with the motion, in the terms in which it was now conceived. By the act of the 12th of George 1st, which created the office of accountant-general, that individual was directed to perform, from time to time, all those operations respecting the funds of the suitors of the court of Chancery that might be deemed necessary. It was unquestionably a part of his duty to make all sales that wore directed to be made by the court; and it was obvious that, in the exercise of that duty, he was obliged to observe the strictest accuracy and attention. It was necessary that lie should proceed with entire accuracy; for the east mistake might occasion the transfer or the payment of a considerable sum of money to a wrong person, by which great confusion would be created. These were the sort of duties that officer had to perform, and he received, in remuneration, a salary of 1,500542l.Mr. Courtenay
 said, he founded his motion on information contained in the report relative to the office connected with the court of Chancery, and not on any private feeling. If he could not get such a return as that which he had moved for, he must, of course, be satisfied with whatever return the court was able to make. He was restrained, by motives of delicacy, from bringing forward this motion during the life of the late accountant-general, and he thought it was rather hard, when motives of that description had operated on his mind, to be told, as an answer to his motion, that the present accountant-general had been only six months in office.Mr. Calcraft
 thought the House would desire to hear the evidence of the medical gentleman alluded to, and therefore moved that Mr. William Hutchiuson Box, the surgeon of Newgate, be called in.The Marquis of Titchfield
 surgeon of Newgate, was called in, and stated, that he had seen sir W. Manners this morning; that he was in a high state of mental irritation; that he had lost the use of his lower extremities, and of one of his arms, by a paralytic affection; and that he does not think he could be brought to the bar without great risk, on account of the general state of excitement and mental irritation under which he labours.Mr. Box,
 thought that after what had been stated to the House, it would not hesitate to take the only course which occurred to him as proper to adopt. He deemed it unnecessary to trouble the House by enlarging upon the grounds which had been so fully urged, persuaded that the feelings they must have excited were in unison with his own. He should, therefore, move that sir W. Manners be discharged from Newgate on paying his fees.The Marquis of Titchfield
550549 rose to offer an humble petition from an individual who had recently fallen under the displeasure of the House, and had for some days been suffering the punishment which it had inflicted upon him. The petitioner was sir William Manners. The House would recollect, that on the 5th
550549Mr. Tennyson
551 on moving that the petition should he on the table, stated, that he had a certificate in his hand from the medical gentleman in attendance, which he would read, that the House might be apprised of what was to be expected from
551Mr. Tennyson,
543 thought there could be no difficulty in procuring the return called for. The present accountant-general could make a return as far as his experience went; and, as the same broker had been employed for many years past,
543Mr. Abercromby
545nisi dignus vindice nodus.544 said, on the first introduction of this bill into the House, he was inclined to consider it favourably. But, comparing the calculations of the hon. member for London with the statements of the right hon. gentleman, and considering the expense of building a wall, including eight acres of land, as injuriously and unnecessarily enhancing the cost, he could not give the measure his support, but must strenuously oppose it. He had, however, various other reasons for opposing this bill. In the present dense state of the population, when the activity of the public mind was increased through the medium of the press, and when the extension of education had opened inlets to general knowledge, and the pressure of taxation had created discontent, he thought it was absolutely necessary for the safety of the metropolis, that an armed force of some kind should
545nisi dignus vindice nodus.544Mr. Lockhart
548547546 brought up the report of the committee appointed to inquire into the state of our foreign trade. The hon. gentleman, in moving that the report be laid on the table, hoped the House would suffer him to make a few observations. He meant briefly to state the extent to which the committee had gone, and the objects to which they had chiefly directed their attention. Gentlemen would recollect that, in the former part of the session, many petitions were received from commercial districts, particularly one from a large and respectable body of merchants of the city of London, which had been presented by an hon. member (Mr. Baring), who usually sat on the other side of the House; and who, he was assured, would have been this day in his place, had he not been detained in the country by a very severe domestic calamity. Those petitions stated the general commercial distress which prevailed, without pointing out any immediate remedy for that distress. And, indeed, considering the state of our connexion with foreign countries, and the nature of the commercial system which had so long prevailed, it would be vain, he feared, to expect any immediate
548547546Mr. Wallace
 suggested that the paper could be procured either in the course of that evening or of to-morrow.Dr. Lushington
587 rose to call the attention of the House to a paragraph in "Flindell's Western Luminary," reflecting severely on the conduct and character of her majesty. He thought it his duty to take this step, because it was impossible for the House to pretend to be ignorant of the nature of the bill which had recently been introduced in another place, or of the severe punishment which, if it were passed into law, it would inflict upon her majesty. The paragraph to which he alluded was one of the most gross attempts he had ever witnessed to pervert the course of justice, as it declared, in the most offensive terms, that the queen was actually guilty of the charges which had been preferred against her. It was true that the proceeding pending elsewhere was not in strictness a judicial proceeding; but it could not be denied that it was an act of one branch of the legislature connected with a most solemn and extraordinary judicial inquiry. Being such, it might also be brought before them, and therefore the House was, as far as regarded it, to all intents and purposes a court of law. Now, if a paragraph had appeared in any publication, reflecting upon the lowest and most subordinate subject in the realm, in the same manner that this shameless paragraph did reflect upon the most exalted subject in it, the lower courts would deem it their duty, supposing that the honour and character of the individual thus assailed were to be on trial before them, to punish the author of such paragraph for wickedly, attempting to bias the minds of the jury, and to destroy the freedom and impartiality of justice. Would, then, that House, acting as the high court of parliament, fail to exercise those judicial duties which its situation entailed upon it, and which every other court would feel itself imperiously called upon to exercise under similar circumstances? Would they allow those insinuations, which would be severely punished if made against the meanest individual in the country whilst
587Mr. Wetherell
 said, he was not prepared to take this step; as he had not a copy of the paper in his possession.Mr. Wetherell
 asked the learned member whether he could not lay the paragraph in question upon the table that evening, and give notice for to-morrow.Mr. Tierney
600"The earth has groaned under the curse of monarchical governments much too long. Civilization has struggled against it almost in vain; and Nature herself seemed almost to despair of shaking it off. But the monarchical form of government is like every other vice—it will destroy itself in the course of time, even if no opposition be made to it."599"We have very little hopes that the Divorce bill will be rejected in such a parliament as the present, because we know, and have seen, that they are sufficiently profligate and servile to act against the clearest testimony of innocence and right.
599"This is what a true Commons House would have done; but when that House, for the main part, is composed of venal boroughmongers, grasping placemen, greedy adventurers, and aspiring title-hunters, or the representatives of such worthies,—a body, in short, containing a far greater portion of public criminals than public guardians—what can be expected from it, but just what we have seen it so readily perform?"598597596 observed, that nothing could be more painful to a well regulated mind than to observe the extreme length to which the press had gone in discussions on this subject. Instead of presenting the country to the view of foreign nations, as a well organized state, obedient and amenable to the laws, which had been its character in all former times, it had presented it to their view as an angry and disturbed community, most adverse to good order, and remote from
600"The earth has groaned under the curse of monarchical governments much too long. Civilization has struggled against it almost in vain; and Nature herself seemed almost to despair of shaking it off. But the monarchical form of government is like every other vice—it will destroy itself in the course of time, even if no opposition be made to it."599"We have very little hopes that the Divorce bill will be rejected in such a parliament as the present, because we know, and have seen, that they are sufficiently profligate and servile to act against the clearest testimony of innocence and right.
599"This is what a true Commons House would have done; but when that House, for the main part, is composed of venal boroughmongers, grasping placemen, greedy adventurers, and aspiring title-hunters, or the representatives of such worthies,—a body, in short, containing a far greater portion of public criminals than public guardians—what can be expected from it, but just what we have seen it so readily perform?"598597596Lord Castlereagh
603602601 said, that he felt it his duty to state, why he had not come before the House with some specific complaint regarding this atrocious paragraph. The paper in question had been put into his hand some days ago by an hon. friend, who had directed his attention to it—and he had also received information of it from other quarters. On reading it, it excited such indignation in his mind, that he determined to give it his most particular attention. But when he considered that the paper in question was in all probability an obscure country paper, with little or no circulation, and that it would be nothing to repress its malice unless that of a part of the metropolitan press was also checked, it appeared to him to be inconsistent with the dignity of the queen to take any notice of this "Western Luminary." He recollected also, that when his noble friend, the member for Aylesbury, had brought the Morning Post and the Courier before the notice of the House (the first for stating that the queen ought to suffer, it mattered little whether as a criminal or a martyr; and the latter for inserting calumnies against
603602601Dr. Lushington
607606605604ex officio wished to say a few words, as some misconduct or neglect of duty on his part appeared to be imputed. He thought it a little singular that the hon. and learned mover, should have selected from the numerous libels with which the press had teemed, that which he had brought under the consideration of the House; as it was one so recently published that no opportunity had been given to the law officers of the Crown even to consider whether they should commence proceedings against it. If the hon. and learned gentleman thought this so gross a libel that no time was to be lost in bringing it before the House, he was surprised that the hon. and learned gentleman had overlooked not only the publications from which his noble friend had read extracts, but various other publications, which for the last three or four weeks, had been indulging in the grossest reflections on the conduct both of that and of the other House of Parliament. With respect, however, to the main question before the House, it ought to be recollected, that no 607606605604ex officioThe Attorney General
 presented a petition from Birmingham, complaining of the evils resulting from the state of the representation. The petition reprobated the constitution of parliament. It condemned all attempts made by individuals to possess themselves of boroughs or towns in their own right as acts of treason to the state, and contended that the offenders in the cases alluded to had been inadequately punished in proportion to the enormity of their offence in violating the purity of election. The petition was signed by George Edmonds.Mr. Alderman Wood
 rose to compliment the House upon the patience with which it had listened to such a compilation of falsehood and nonsense. He had stopped to hear it read through, although it was so extremely prolix, that he might be in perfect possession of its very extraordinary contents. Now that he was aware of them, he certainly should consider himself extremely culpable if he did not oppose the printing of such trash at a very considerable expense to the public; more particularly as there appeared to be less necessity for any delicacy, as the petition and remonstrance was only signed by an individual, and that individual had not so signed it as the representative of a corporate body.Mr. R. Smith
 had been informed, on receiving the petition, that it contained the sentiments of a numerous meeting of respectable householders at Birmingham, although it had only been signed by their chairman. It was rather strange, he thought, in the hon. member who opposed the printing of the petition, that he should have waited in the House purposely to possess himself of the information or sentiments it contained, and after having enjoyed such a treat he should have the cruelty to deny a similar indulgence to such gentlemen as were absent. He would not withdraw his motion; there were many reasons why he thought he should press it.Mr. Alderman Wood
 admitted that the petition did not claim any respect from the House as a sensible composition; but he was afraid, in refusing to permit it to be printed, silly as it was, that such a refusal might hereafter be drawn into a precedent on a motion for printing a much more sensible petition. He should therefore prefer that the House should, as it had suffered the petition, after it was aware of its contents, to be laid on the table, suffer it to be printed, as was usual whenever an application of this nature was made, lest the refusal should be drawn into a precedent, to the prejudice of a more serious case.Mr. Gurney
 considered it sufficient that the House should be open to receive and listen to the suggestions of collective bodies or individuals, some of whom, as in the present instance, might be justly considered reprehensible as having trifled with the time and patience of the House; but when it was gravely proposed by the worthy alderman to print such offensive nonsense, he felt it a duty imposed on him to oppose it as a public evil, as well as an insult to the House.Mr. R. Smith
 considered the petition had already, in being suffered to lie on the table, received more attention than it merited. It would be an intolerant evil if such trash were permitted to be printed as a matter of course.Mr. Lushington
 wished to withdraw the motion, as he confessed he had no doubt, from the state of the House, it would be negatived.Mr. Alderman Wood
 said, he should not consent to its being withdrawn; it was more advisable that the opinion of the House should be given on the merits of the petition in a more marked way by a decided negative.Mr. R. Smith
 deprecated the conduct pursued by ministers towards the queen; but however improper that might have been, he could not allow such libels as those that had been lately circulated, to continue to be so circulated any longer with impunity.Mr. Maxwell
l608 denied that when he or the hon. and learned gentleman said any thing in that House, in disparagement of the conduct of ministers towards her majesty, it was with the view of inflaming any one either in or out of doors. What they did was merely to recapitulate that conduct. If such a recapitulation had the effect of inflaming, it was attributable to the conduct itself, and not to him. It appeared to him that the attorney-general had been unfortunate in his illustration res-
l608Lord A. Hamilton
ll said, that the Landlords and Tenants' bill, which he had had the honour to introduce, having now received the royal assent, he wished to give notice, before the House separated, that, conformably to an intention which he had before intimated, and to what he found to be a prevalent feeling on the subject, he should, early in the next session, move for leave to bring in a bill for further and more generally amending the laws which affect the relation of landlord and tenant, and especially for providing a more summary and accessible, and a less expensive remedy for recovering the possession, when unlawfully detained, of small tenements held at a rent not exceeding 20llMr. Tennyson
595 replied, that he should first move that it be taken notice of as a
595Mr. Wetherell
 wished the whole of the article, of which that paragraph formed a part, to be likewise read, in order that the House might judge better of its malignity from knowing the context.Mr. Wetherell
594ipso facto593v.592sub judice591in esse590 wished that the important subject which he now rose to submit to the House had been placed in abler hands, as it was one that deserved the utmost attention which they could possibly give to it. As the House was already acquainted with the object of his motion, he should commence the observations which he had to make in support of it, by stating that it appeared to him that an individual, whose guilt or innocence was to be ascertained by the passing or the rejection of a bill of pains and penalties, was entitled to the same protection from the high court of parliament, during the investigation of his case, as would be extended to him by the other courts of the country were he to be brought to trial at their bar. Now, he was of opinion, that nobody would dispute, that pending a criminal, or even a civil proceeding in any of the courts of common law, a publication directly or indirectly tending to obstruct that proceeding, was itself, by the common law of England, a criminal offence. He had only to refer to what had occurred within their own recollection, as a proof of this assertion. It happened, however, that the motion which he had to make on this subject had in it this novelty—that no case had as yet occurred, in which, pending an inquiry, on which a bill of pains and penalties, or a bill of attainder, was to be founded, this question had been decided—he meant the question, "whether it was or was not the duty of parliament to take under its protection the person against whom the imputation of guilt was made, and, by so doing, to secure to itself full enjoyment of its own privileges?" Feeling, therefore, as he did, the novelty of the present question, it was not extraordinary that he should entertain some distrust and diffidence regarding the measure to be pursued with the paper which he now held in his hand, and the conductor of which, he was inclined to state, had been guilty of a breach of privilege. Now, when he said this, he felt that it was not for him to recommend the institution of a new precedent, if any doubt existed, regarding its being a breach of privilege. But still he must say, that it was his decided opinion, after giving the matter the best attention, that the paper did contain
594ipso facto593v.592sub judice591in esse590Mr. Wetherell
609 said, that as the noble lord and the hon. and learned gentleman had both intimated that the publication in question would become the subject of prosecution, his object was answered, and he felt great satisfaction that it was so. The House might therefore dispose of his motion as they thought fit. He could not help observing, that the noble lord had not commented on his con-
609Mr. Wetherell
 declared his determination to reserve his further opinions on the great question respecting her majesty, until it should come regularly before the House. He would therefore confine himself strictly to the motion. He confessed that he could not well understand how his hon. and learned friend could make the libel in question a breach of the privileges of the House. At least, the argument by which his hon. and learned friend had endeavoured to do so, appeared to him to be too refined. Because the House of Commons knew that the House of Lords had entertained a bill which respected her majesty, and because that bill was a parliamentary proceeding, and because the House of Commons was a branch of parliament, therefore the libel in question was a breach of the privileges of the House of Commons. Now, it should be remembered, that what that House knew of the proceedings in the House of Lords, was not by a communication from that House, but merely from an examination of the Lords' Journals. The bill might never come to the House of Commons. If the publication in question was really a breach of privilege, it ought to be taken notice of by the House of Lords rather than by the House of Commons. The next question was, whether, if it was declared to be a breach of privilege, the attorney-general should be instructed to prosecute Now, to such a proceeding, he conceived there were many objections. It was odious to send a man to trial with the weight of the opinion of the House of Commons against him. But even if prosecution by the attorney-general were the fit course, it was for the House of Lords to pursue it, and not the House of Commons. Under all the circumstances of the case, he strongly recommended to his hon. and learned friend to withdraw his motion.Mr. Tierney
 then asked Mr. Wetherell, whether he meant to complain of the paper as guilty of a breach of privilege, or to move that the attorney-general be directed to prosecute the editor of it for the passage reflecting on the queen?The Speaker
 seconded the motion. He said, that the slanders which were disseminated by means of the licentious press of the country were certainly such as went to deprive the two Houses of any thing like freedom of judgment. If the press were to form the judgment of the country on this important question, it might happen that the judgment of the two Houses of Parliament might not be satisfactory to it, and in that case the most dreadful consequences might be anticipated. He therefore gladly seconded this motion, and trusted that the effect of it would be not only to deter the editor of the paper complained of from pursuing a similar conduct, but to put down the efforts of the licentious press throughout the country.Sir M. Cholmeley
 rose to move that the House at its rising should adjourn to that day four weeks. His object in moving such an adjournment was, that the House should be enabled to provide for the proper course, in whatever state the proceedings of the Bill before the House of Lords might be at the time. So that in the event of any interruption to the proceeding, by giving time to her majesty to call evidence from abroad, an ulterior adjournment might then take place, or that time might be given for the fullest attendance by a call of the House.Lord Castlereagh
826 said, his objections to the bill now in progress
826Lord Francis Osborne
827 rose to second the amendment. He had that day come down to the House under the full impression of moving a similar amendment to that proposed by the noble lord, if no member more competent to the task undertook that duty. He was most anxious to take the first opportunity of entering his protest against that monstrous measure of iniquity which was now in progress in another place, to the disgrace of the House of Lords, and the degradation of the monarchy. If he had no other objection to the measure, the preparations he had witnessed that day—preparations got up by the ministers for the purpose of hedging themselves in their alarming course—would alone have compelled him to call upon them to desist. Never, he believed, had this country witnessed such a sight as had been presented to him that evening on coming down to perform his duty as an English member of parliament; never since the days of Oliver Cromwell had a similar spectacle been exhibited. What was the world to think of a measure that could not even be generated without an assemblage of military guards; and that could not be carried on without filling with troops every apartment in the neighbourhood of parliament, and every avenue leading to either House? Indeed
827Mr. Hobhouse
828 expressed his decided aversion to the erection of that House into a court of justice. In every view of the subject, such a course was attended with difficulty and danger. He assured the House, that from one end of the country to the other, there could not be found an impartial person who did not regret the prosecution that was now going on. Not an individual could be met who did not regret, nay even condemn, the erasure of her majesty's name from the Liturgy. He never yet heard a single ground on which that fatal act could be defended. The people were loud in the expression of their abhorrence
828Mr. Western
832831830 was of opinion that nothing ought to drag the House, under the present circumstances, into any thing like a discussion of the great question at issue. On a subject so extensive, so important in all its bearings, and requiring so much calmness and time, the House ought not to be forced into an immediate deliberation. He was not aware of any existing circumstance which should lead the House to depart from the course they thought best at the period of their last se-
832831830Lord Castlereagh
 in explanation, stated, that what he had said was, that being bound to vote on the present occasion, he, after deliberating on the difficulties which pressed on both sides of the question, would give his reluctant vote for the amendment. The noble lord had talked of him as being the friend of the Queen. He wished to be understood as the friend of the country, and in that capacity he was anxious to put a stop to the present proceedings.Lord A. Hamilton
829 observed, that he felt as fully as any member the unfortunate predicament in which the House was placed. He felt as fully as his right hon. friend (Mr. Tierney) the conflicting difficulties and dangers that on every side surrounded the question, but he also was convinced that these difficulties and dangers were much more likely to be increased by a continuance of the present course, than by at once putting a termination to it. It was with that conviction that he should give his support to the amendment. To justify his own consistency hereafter, he took that opportunity of declaring, that whenever or in whatever shape the proceeding came before them, his vote should never be regulated by the consideration of the guilt or innocence of the accused. He felt, then, as he from the first moment declared, that his insuperable objection to the prosecution of the Queen, whose life, not for the last six, but for 26 years, has been a life of unparalleled persecution, arose from his full conviction of her being precluded from the possibility of having justice extended to her, on the consideration of her guilt or innocence. In considering the guilt or innocence of that unhappy woman, there must be taken into consideration so many shades, such a variety of discriminations, such palliations, that he ever must contend, that those who originated the prosecution, were disqualified by their very own acts towards her, from proceeding against her. When he reflected on the manner in which she was forsaken, abandoned, and insulted at home—persecuted and vilified abroad—he felt he should not be acting with justice towards her, if he did not protest against a trial, instituted under such circumstances, and conducted by such accusers. That was not the proper time to cast imputations on his majesty's ministers: but he could not help saying to them, that they could with a very ill grace, accuse others of inconsistency, who had themselves given such frequent proofs of
829Lord A. Hamilton
 observed, that what he had said was, that the hon. member's motion had that effect—not that the hon. member had that intention.Lord A. Hamilton
 could not agree to the amendment recommending a prorogation of Parliament, after the proceedings that had already taken place in the Lords. It would be most unjust to her majesty, after what had passed, to stop short, and deprive her of the means of defence. When he said that, he begged it to be understood, as not lending himself in any degree in support of the form of proceeding. To that, no man could feel a stronger objection than himself. In acceding to the motion of adjournment, he felt he was giving no pledge to the course he should pursue, whether to receive the bill, or to suggest another mode, or that he was surrendering an iota of the privileges of that House.Mr. Tierney
 said, if he understood the noble lord, the arrangement was, that nothing should take place at the period when the proposed adjournment should end, but to fix a convenient period for a call of the House.Mr. Tierney
837836 observed, that perhaps this was a question on which he ought not to say any thing, but, with the permission of the House, he begged to offer a few words. No man who had attended to the course of the proceedings in that House would accuse him of having shown any anxiety to press this subject on, or any disinclination to allow of any interval which might afford a chance of doing justice, without any further parliamentary investigation to the high parties implicated. On the contrary, from the moment the message from the Crown was presented to the House, he had intreated parliament to pause before it was too late.
837836Mr. Brougham
 would not have troubled the House with any observations on the present occasion, had it not been for what had fallen from a noble lord, who had alluded to the motion which he (Mr. Wilberforce) had some time ago made on the subject of her majesty, but which had not experienced the success that he expected. But for that he should have contented himself with silently acquiescing in the motion for the adjournment, it being distinctly understood, that in doing so, no hon. member pledged himself to any opinion on the bill of pains and penalties, if it should come down to that House. The noble lord had stated in that House what would he studiously and industriously repeated elsewhere; that he (Mr. W.) had been anxious in making the motion to which he had alluded, to fortify ministers. He declared, from the bottom of his soul, that nothing could be more sincere than his desire on that occasion to put an end to the necessity of any further proceeding. He had no intention to fortify ministers.Mr. Wilberforce
835834 said, that when a proposition such as that which the noble lord had advanced, was accompanied with a guard, the proposition generally appeared elsewhere, but without the guard. That was generally dropt. It would, in all probability, be stated elsewhere, that the noble lord had said, not that such was the effect, but that such had been the object of his motion. He had frequently been subjected to the most detestable calumny so originating. He was obliged to the noble lord, however, for the explanation. As to the amendment proposed by the noble lord on that occasion, to address the King to restore her majesty's name to the Liturgy, he had not made such a proposition to the House, because he knew he
835834Mr. Wilberforce
 said, in explanation, that the hon. gentleman must have entirely mistaken what he had said. He had never complained of the proper expression of the public feelings, nor of the constitutional exercise of the liberty of the press—he had merely said, that he thought the press was now exercised in an undue manner, and for a purpose which seemed as if it was intended to intimidate parliament and the country from adopting any measure which partook of a particular character. To attempt such intimidation, pending the agitation of a great public question, was, he thought highly unconstitutional. For his own part, he thought it right, as a member of parliament, to say, that no undue influence should deter him from the strict discharge of his public duty. With respect to the mode of presenting the addresses to which he alluded, he meant merely to say, that it was very unusual to assemble the people in such numbers to go up in bodies with addresses. The appearance of such crowds was certainly alarming.Mr. Keith Douglas
104 rose, to give some explanation respecting that part of the hon. gentleman's speech in which he stated that the person who was lately the editor of the Courier had received a present of
104Mr. Huskinson
 thought it not quite regular, upon the prevalence of such rumours as those to which the hon. gentleman alluded, to put formal questions to his majesty's ministers. To encourage such questions would, he thought, tend more to perplex the business of the country, than to assist its course. It was most unreasonable to ask him to pronounce any opinion upon transactions respecting which he had at present hardly any information. He trusted the hon. gentleman would deem this n sufficient answer, in the absence of any official information upon the subject.Lord Castlereagh
 brought up the Report of the Committee appointed to inspect the Lords Journals, with relation to the present state of any proceedings had respecting the Bill of Pains and Penalties against her Majesty. The report having been read,Mr. Brogden
 asked, whether the noble lord had received any communication as to the probable extent of the defence for the Queen, or what time it was likely to occupy? Because, if the noble lord had had no such information, he might be proposing to assemble the House to no purpose, but merely that of a further adjournment.Mr. Hume
 observed, that he wished the House to be left open for the exercise of its own discretion as to the period of any farther adjournment. If the bill of Pains and Penalties should be brought down from the other House, it was his present intention to move a further adjournment to the 5th or 10th of November, and that the House should be then called over.Lord Castlereagh
 repeated, that the more distant period would be the more advisable, because it would be more certain.Mr. Hume
 still thought a previous meeting advisable to fix the precise time of taking the discussion which they could on the 17th better determine than now. This was a proceeding of too much delicacy to be left standing over; they ought, therefore, to watch its progress, and then determine, should the bill come before them, the earliest possible time when they could devote themselves to it.Lord Castlereagh
 could not think what the noble lord meant when he talked of delicacy in this business. Surely he did not mean to say that his majesty's ministers had treated the House with delicacy. On the contrary they had treated the House' just as a huntsman did a pack of hounds—they turned them out, and whipped them in, just as they wanted them.Sir Gerard Noel
107 begged for some explanation from the noble lord opposite
107Lord Francis Osborne
108 regretted his inability to enter into the legal construction of the statute of Edward with the noble lord, but he thought it obvious that the bill, as at present framed, had two purposes—the one affecting her majesty's rights as Queen and the other enacting a divorce. What he understood his noble friend (the earl of Liverpool) to have stated elsewhere was this—that there was no intention whatever of acting in opposition to any religious feeling which might be excited; and that the part of the bill which went to the divorce need not be pressed, as the measure was disclaimed for the purpose of affording any personal remedy. Upon public and not upon personal grounds its
108Lord Castlereagh
 observed, that, after all that had passed upon this subject, after the strong expressions used in debate regarding the nature of the pending proceeding, and the opinions so industriously circulated in all quarters, it was fit, for the honour and character of the House, as well as for the satisfaction of the country, that the inquiry should be conducted with the utmost possible solemnity. He submitted, therefore, whether it might not be expedient that a bill should be brought in, to enable the House of Commons to examine witnesses upon oath. He did not himself feel authorized to propose such a bill: a man so private and unknown as he was, could scarcely hope to have influence enough to carry it through; but he trusted that the executive government would take the subject into consideration.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
52 said, he was in doubt whether he rightly understood the hon. and learned gentleman. Within the last few days, reports had been circulated of an intended motion, on the part of persons who were to be looked upon as the prosecutors of the Queen, to induce the House to renounce the right it now enjoyed, and had always possessed since it had been a House of Commons, of examining witnesses at the bar. He was not sure, therefore, whether what the hon. and learned gentleman had proposed was not intended to sound the country on the subject, and whether the suggestion had not been made with the privity of ministers. [Mr. Serjeant Onslow said, across the floor, "On my honour, no."] He did not say that such was the design of the hon. and learned gentleman, but it might have that effect. If such a rumour were true, and if, after having degraded the King, the Queen, and the other House of Parliament, ministers proceeded to deprive the House of Commons of its undoubted and most valuable privilege of
52Mr. Creevey
, in explanation, said, that he had been misapprehended. He perfectly agreed with the hon. gentleman, that were the House to forego its privilege of examining witnesses at the bar, in such a case as that in question, it would degrade itself for ever. He declared upon his honour, that he had never had any communication with his majesty's ministers, or with any other person, on the subject of the proposition, which he had ventured to suggest to the House, and which proposition, so far from being any abandonment of the privileges of the House, as to the examination of witnesses, was to enable the House to examine witnesses on oath.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
, in the present stage of the proceedings, protested against any extension of the jurisdiction of the House of Commons. It would be to him a subject of the most solemn regret to see the power of examining witnesses on oath assumed by that House. Nothing could be more dangerous to the liberty of the subject, than to invest that House with any such inquisitorial authority. If such a proposition should actually be made, he did hope, therefore, that the hon. and learned member would, on consideration, vote against its reception, on the ground of its tyrannical and dangerous character.Mr. Bernal
54in limine53 said, he would not be deterred by the reflection that the subject might have fallen into abler hands, from saying a few words upon it. When he considered the fresh and increasing difficulties in which the House and the country were involved, he certainly had looked round with a hope that some hon. gentleman of more importance than himself,
54in limine53Mr. Hobhouse
 interposed, and called the hon. gentleman to order. Some allusion, in such a case as the present, might, perhaps, be allowable, to what might have occurred in the other House of Parliament; but he put it to the good sense of the honourable gentleman, whether to enter into such details, as to the divisions which had taken place there, was not an infringement, not merely of the form, but of the substance of the rules of the House of Commons?The Speaker
 disclaimed any wish to violate the rules of parliament. He had thought himself justified in making the allusions which he had done on the present occasion. He meant to refer merely to what was perfectly notorious.Mr. Hobhouse
 conceived, that if the hon. gentleman confined himself to a statement of the divisions he would be in order, as the House of Commons, having access to the Journals of the House of Lords, had a right to be informed on that subject.Mr. Calcraft
585756in limine?55 proceeded. He had considered himself justified in alluding to what was not only notorious, but to what in fact had become matter of record in a
585756in limine?55Mr. Hobhouse
60lll59 rose. He said, that the silence of ministers on the present occasion might be very dignified, but it would not satisfy the country. For himself, he would not forego the present opportunity of declaring, that should the bill of Pains and Penalties come into that House, there was no resistance—no obstacle—no impediment—which the wit of man could devise, or perseverance apply, that he would not make use of to stop its progress; not merely because the measure in its form was abominable, odious, and unconstitutional, but because he now conceived himself a competent judge of the merits of the whole proceeding. He had attended every day in the House of Lords—he had heard all the witnesses—he had listened to all that could be urged in their favour—he had observed the conduct of the judicial assembly, and he was prepared to assert on his oath—on his conscience before God—that these proceedings had originated in a foul and infamous conspiracy. These were hard terms, it was true; but it was his duty, on an occasion like this, to speak out, and not to allow the best interests of his country to suffer, lest he should give offence in any quarter. He could adduce proof, that the conspiracy originated, not at Milan, but at Hanover. Could any man doubt that when it was found that baron Ompteda, after having executed the instructions which he had received, to pick-locks, to forge keys, and to steal letters, and after
60lll59Sir Robert Wilson
61ex-parteex-parte had long ago made up his mind not to say a single word on the merits of the subject, until the bill should come regularly before the House. What he now rose for, therefore, was, merely to make a few collateral and explanatory observations. The gallant general, and the honourable gentleman who preceded him, had violated the distinct understanding which existed on the subject, by entering into an 61ex-parteex-parteDr. Phillimore
646362ex-parteex-parte said, he was desirous of an opportunity of stating, that his original opinion was in no respect changed by what had recently transpired in the House of Lords. All men, he thought, must now feel, that day after day new and increasing dangers were impending over the country by a perseverance in this measure, and that there was no safety but in retreat. For years ministers had pursued the same system of bringing into odium and contempt the institutions of the country. Their last effort was the bill now before parliament, and its introduction would be regretted, by all who loved their country, to the latest hour of their existence. Whether the bill should pass or not, the House of Commons, the House of Lords, the Sovereign, all would be degraded. He had heard the prime minister state in the other House of Parliament, that if it were wished by religious persons, the divorce clause in the bill would be abandoned. That would be to degrade both the parties. It would be to state, that although her majesty's conduct had been too infamous to justify her continuance in that rank, it had not been too infamous to justify her remaining the wife of the King of England [Hear, hear!]. The hon. and learned gentleman, who had just sat down, had said, that his gallant friend's statement was an 646362ex-parteex-parteMr. Bennet
, notwithstanding the tone and temper which had distinguished the speeches of those hon. gentlemen on the other side who had addressed the House on this occasion, should not be tempted to follow the course which they had taken. For what did they do? They were aware that they were now discussing a proceeding which was pending in the other House; yet they came down to the House, and gave their opinions upon that proceeding, and endeavoured—(he must be permitted to say, at least, that such was calculated to be the effect of their speeches)—by statements of what had, and not only of what had, but of what had not passed in the other House, to inflame the minds of the people upon the subject. He, for one, would not follow the example which the honourable gentlemen had set; but he might be allowed to say a word or two respecting certain expressions which had fallen from an honourable member opposite, as directed against him, and as reflecting on the manner in which he, as attorney-general, had opened the case, and produced evidence to support it. It had been said that the course and conduct pursued by him had been disgraceful, Whatever hon. gentlemen might please to say, he should content himself with replying, that it would have been disgraceful in him if he had shrunk from that line of conduct which he had pursued. It would be seen hereafter whether the proceedings which had been taken against the Queen were or were not justified; but he could assure the House, that, in their present stage, he should consider himself infinitely more disgraced if the approbation of the honourable member had been bestowed on his conduct.The Attorney General
747372717069ex-parte6867ex-parteex parteex-parteex-parte66 said, it had not been his intention to trouble the House on the present occasion, but feeling strongly on the question, he hoped he might be allowed to make some observations after what had been said. An honourable and learned gentleman had thought fit to complain of the conduct of the gallant officer, for bringing the subject before the House in the way he had done. He would ask, for what was the House now assembled? What was the purpose for which they had met? What was the object of the right honourable the chancellor of the exchequer's motion now before the House? The object and the purpose were known to every person, both in and out of parliament. Was his gallant friend to be blamed for speaking
747372717069ex-parte6867ex-parteex parteex-parteex-parte66Mr. Hume
81807978777675 said, that after the turn which the debate had taken, he should not find it necessary to trouble the House with many words. But there were some situations in which discussions were brought forward upon grounds so little reasonable, and arguments adduced so foreign to the business properly before the House, and which, in his own mind, he might feel, could never have any influence in it, that he found it impossible not to offer some observations, however repugnant to his feelings it might be to be thus dragged into a debate of this kind. He was quite sure that the good sense of the House must be disgusted at finding that they were now occupied upon a debate on a proceeding still pending in the other House; that the character of that House, and with it every thing connected with one of the most important measures ever agitated there, were thus unnecessarily dragged into a discussion; and that, in the judicial spirit in which an hon. member on the other side of the House had spoken, his impartiality and his penetration appeared to be summed up in this charge—that one of her majesty's counsel had been shamefully browbeaten by the House of Lords! This might furnish the House, he thought, with a true measure of the temper in which all the other observations they had heard had been made. So far from having any effect, indeed, with hon. gentlemen, or any way degrading the illustrious assembly in question, they could only serve to show that there were persons in the country of minds and views so perverted as to prompt them to attack the high character of an assembly which their attack could not reach. He had been very much surprised to hear the hon. member for Westminster assume (which he had no right to assume), that that House had already decided that it would not make any inquiry into the subject before them. That was a point which had never been decided. He (lord Castlereagh) certainly had proposed to bring the question to an issue; but hon. gentlemen would remember the steps which it had been at length agreed to take. Fore-
81807978777675Lord Castlereagh
82 said, he should not assert that the whole of the proceedings against the Queen originated in a foul conspiracy; nor did he rise to insult the nice honour of the attorney-general by making any comments on the speeches of the counsel; but he felt himself called upon to give the reasons why he supported the motion of the honourable member for Westminster. He had formerly had the pleasure (and he could sincerely say it was a pleasure) to vote with the noble lord Castlereagh, in the majority which declared, on the 22nd of June last, that the proceedings against the Queen, whatever the result of them might be, could not be otherwise than derogatory from the honour of the Crown, and injurious to the best interests of the country. He, therefore, now, in accordance with that resolution, and for the sake of maintaining his own consistency in what he conceived to be a correct opinion, should vote for the motion of the hon. member for Westminster. The noble lord had talked of the fear of public clamour, and had dealt out his monitions to that side of the House, in a very general and unwarrantable way. The noble lord should have confined his admonitions to those who needed them. He meant to do his duty, as fearlessly and as regardlessly of public clamour, as the noble lord; he would perform his duty to his constituents as honestly as the noble lord; but there necessarily was, in the judgment of every man, a public feeling that should have some weight with parliament, and it was manifest to every one that that opinion was now decidedly against the proceedings in the case of the Queen, and it was equally clear, that it was, in a great measure, founded on that vote in which he had concurred, and which he now wished the House to maintain. He had thus stated his reasons for the vote which he should give; he should have been able to avoid that necessity,
82Mr. Maberly
858483 said, that he also should state why he agreed with the honourable member for Westminster, in the amendment which he had moved. He could not agree that the proceedings which were now carrying on in the other House did not form a fit subject for discussion at that moment. He had known no public question that had ever arisen, of greater importance than whether the bill pending against her majesty should be allowed to proceed? and he knew no other mode of bringing that question into discussion, and getting an opinion on it than by such, a motion as that of the honourable member for Westminster. On a former occasion, when the noble lord, the member for Cambridgeshire had made a similar proposition, he had determined to support it; but the counsel for the Queen had said, that it would be a great hardship if she were not allowed to go into her defence, and he had consequently withdrawn his support from that motion. But the fact was, as it now appeared, that though the whole of the case against the Queen was gone through, the injuries she had suffered were so great, that the evidence against her went, in the opinion of the public, for nothing. The people had seen the Queen charged With a crime that was no crime by law; menaced with an act which was at once to make the
858483Mr. Creevey
888786 said, he should state his reasons for supporting the amendment, as well on account of the importance of the subject, as because, from his having attended a great number of public meetings, he had a better opportunity than many members of knowing what the public opinion was. He now lamented, that the motion of the noble lord the member for Cambridgeshire (lord F. Osborne) on a former occasion, had not been carried into effect. The objection that was then made to the motion was, that as the evidence had begun, it was fit it should be carried through. He had not thought that argument conclusive, and he should vote for the amendment of the honourable member for Westminster on the present occasion; and in doing so, he should be acting in unison with his constituents, who had had a meeting on the subject, and had instructed him to resist ever step of this inquiry. The noble lord's objection appeared the least of all objections on the subject. The noble lord had contended, that public justice required that an inquiry of this nefarious character (for it was nefarious) should be further continued. But a day of reckoning would come, and it was not far distant. He had given the subject every possible consideration—he had looked at every pretence on which it had been brought forward—he had weighed all the evidence and his solemn conviction was, that this was as dark and foul a conspiracy as had ever been formed, and that his majesty's ministers were at the bottom of it. He would not mince it. He repeated, that it was as foul a conspiracy as had ever been formed, and that his majesty's ministers were at the bottom of it. He had reflected on the state of the public mind; and there was but one opinion as to the necessity of rescuing the
888786Mr. Peter Moore
 said, he was under the necessity of differing from his honourable colleague on the subject of the proposed amendment. If he could think it consistent with any principle of justice, or if he could persuade himself that it would have the effect of limiting the calamitous consequences which every day became more apparent, he should readily sacrifice his own opinion to that of his honourable friend. But as he did not think it likely that the amendment would be carried, he must frankly say, that he saw no reason to concur with it. The evidence against the illustrious person in question had gone forth to the public, accompanied by the statement, summing up, and comments of the law-officers of the Crown. To him it appeared that it would be gross injustice not to allow her majesty the opportunity of rebutting it, and of proving what had been asserted, that the charges were the offspring of a foul conspiracy. Upon these grounds, he felt obliged to vote against the proposition for now putting an end to the inquiry, although it would give him extreme satisfaction to support any motion that could stop the further proceedings, if that measure was not at the same time an act of injustice towards the illustrious person accused. He would also state his determination, if the bill should unfortunately come down to that House, to oppose the first reading of it, on the principle, that bills of such a description ought never to be entertained, except in cases where the were essential to the public safety.Mr. Ellice
89 expressed his concurrence in the views stated by his honourable friend who had just set down; but he rose for the purpose of putting a question to his majesty's ministers, which in his opinion was of importance both to the character and dignity of the government. He had observed in a report of what had passed at a recent meeting held at the Crown and Anchor, that an honourable baronet (sir G. Noel), who presided on that occasion, had read a letter from a worthy alderman (Wood), in which it was said that the defence of the Queen had been left short by the want of pecu-
89Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, he was perfectly prepared to give the honourable baronet a distinct official answer to the question which he had put. He could assure him, in the first place, that every sum for which application had been made by the Queen's legal advisers had been advanced, with an intimation from the Treasury, that if any further sums were deemed necessary they would be cheerfully furnished, subject only to such an account as the legal advisers of the Queen should be able to render.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 asked, what was the actual sum advanced on account of the defence?Sir M. W. Ridley
ll replied, that the whole amount of what had been advanced was 20,000llThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
 wished to know how many days had elapsed between the application for the second sum, and its actual advance?Mr. Hume
 said, that no further time had elapsed than was strictly in accordance with the forms of office.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
90 wished to state, in a very few words, the reasons which induced him to support a motion which had for its object an immediate abandonment of the proceedings against her majesty. In his opinion, the calamitous consequences which they had a tendency to produce, and were really producing, became more obvious every day. He had never indeed been able to discover what beneficial end was to be answered by them. It was said, that the subject had been taken up out of a regard to public morals; but who would say that public morals would not have been more respected by a suppression of the inquiry,
90Mr. S. C. Whitbread
91*** felt it his duty to protest against the doctrine of the noble lord that it was improper for this House to interfere with the proceedings of the House of Lords. He was surprised to hear such an opinion expressed by any member of the House of Commons. If there was one right better established than another, it was the right, he should rather call it the duty, of the House of Commons to check and to control the House of Lords, when it was assuming to itself any dangerous or unconstitutional power. This was a right repeatedly exercised by this House. In the time of Charles the Second, when the House of Lords attempted to exercise, in the case of Skinner against the East India Company,91***Mr. Lennard
 declared that he could not reconcile it to his feelings to give quite a silent vote upon this question. He believed that the bill under consideration was altogether without a precedent since the period of the Revolution. The House of Lords had never since that period assumed the kind of jurisdiction which they were now exercising. He had heard with much pleasure the sentiments expressed by many honourable members, and was confirmed in his resolution of opposing the bill in all its stages.Sir Gerard Noel
92 said, he was originally of the opinion expressed in the resolution of the House of the 22nd of June last, that the discussion of this affair of the Queen must, in any result, be injurious to the best interests of all the parties. Every thing had since concurred to strengthen this opinion, and to show the impolicy of suspending the business of a great country, on account of the conduct of an individual, and a subject, however exalted in rank. It would not, however, now be fair to stop the proceedings until both sides had been heard in the House of Peers. When that had taken place would be the proper time to pause and consider what course it was best to pursue. In the mean time the honourable alderman deprecated the unconstitutional language used on behalf of the Queen, to induce the army to interfere in political questions—language which, in former times, would have called forth the notice of all who valued the constitution. He called upon every one professing to love freedom to pause before be used, or countenanced even by his
92Mr. Alderman Heygate
93 observed, that the consternation and dismay which had been represented as now prevailing were, in in his opinion, to be ascribed rather to the influence of the press than to the extent of our military establishments. He took a view of our danger somewhat different from that entertained by the worthy alderman who preceded him. Every one who wished well to the prosperity of the country must lament to see the public press so mischievously, so ably, and so successfully labouring, in a way that was not adequately resisted, to inflame discontent, and to increase public alarm. He thought it would be improper for parliament to separate without an understanding that his majesty's ministers had some measures in contemplation for correcting the licence of the press [A loud cry of "Hear hear!" from the Opposition benches]. He might be imperfectly expressing what he meant, but he did see in the evil of which he complained a danger truly alarming. It was far from his wish that the liberties of the country should be curtailed; but the question was, whether some remedy ought not to be applied to a great evil? The case of the Queen was one subject of consideration; but it was brought into connexion with various others, by the journals and publications of the day. The press had assumed a new character; it was conducted with unusual ability, and was incessantly employed in propagating its doctrines. The consequences were evident; they found addresses presented of a new description, coming from large bodies not before accustomed to assemble together for such a purpose. As an instance, he might refer to the address lately carried up to the Queen by a great
93Mr. Keith Douglas
 wished to make only three remarks. Did the hon. gentleman who spoke last consider that his majesty's ministers had not duly exercised the power entrusted to them, or did he wish them to produce a new edition of the late acts for regulating the press? If there was any danger in what was now going forward, the House of Lords had not shown any apprehension of it; the had imposed no restriction on the publication of the entire proceedings, and had suffered evidence to go forth to the world, which must necessarily have the effect of casting a slur upon the Queen's character. That House would do well to cherish the liberty of the press, and not allow it to be cut down in a by-way. If it was conducted with superior industry and talent, that was an additional reason for pardoning its occasional licence.Mr. Bernal
 observed, that although as a young member he felt diffident in pressing the House to a division, yet the question appeared to him to be so important, that he was placed under the necessity of exercising his right.Mr. Hobhouse
l, seeing the noble lord opposite in his place, was extremely anxious to ask him a question of some importance, to which he hoped the noble lord would have no objection to return an answer. In doing this, it was necessary for him to state to the noble lord, that a man of the name of Krous had been employed by the Milan commission, as an extra courier (not as the courier of the government), and had, in that capacity, been frequently sent from Milan, on different matters connected with the business of the commission. In proceeding to England, it was understood that this person was arrested in Paris, on the charge of having forged Bank of England notes in his possession to the amount of 310lSir Robert Wilson
95 said, though he was not able to answer the gallant general's question to its fullest extent, he was happy in having an opportunity of stating what he knew of this business—a statement which he conceived to be due to the individual mentioned. Under the circumstances of the case, his answer
95Lord Castlereagh
96 rose, in conformity with the notice he had given in the early part of the evening, to move, that an account of the sums expended in the prosecution of the Queen be laid on the table, from the earliest period of the six years, when the proceedings were first instituted, down to the present time. At any other period he would have given the notice usual on such occasions; but the peculiar circumstances under which the House had assembled prevented him from adopting that course. Besides, he conceived that not the least opposition could be made to the motion. He was induced to call for this account, in consequence of many reports that had gone abroad, as well as of many statements which had come out in the course of the evidence (with all of which they were acquainted), from which it appeared that some of the witnesses ac-
96Mr. Whitbread
97 said, if the hon. gentleman had intimated to the House that he merely wished for a statement of the general amount of the public expenditure connected with this matter, although he (lord C.) might consider it not prudent to call for such an account, still he felt that it was one which might have been granted; but certainly, the motion, as it now stood, was extremely unsatisfactory, because the hon. member had not called on the House for a short statement of the expenses incurred by the whole of the proceedings, both those that were necessary in supporting the bill, and those that were called for in opposing it. The hon. gentleman had called for a detailed account, on one aide, for the purpose of examining adversely, and criminally, if he pleased, any part of that expenditure which he thought proper. Now, to whatever point the House might hereafter deem it necessary to extend its inquiries, he thought that the present was not a moment for the introduction of an exami-
97Lord Castlereagh
 said, he had stated that he was induced to make this motion in J consequence of an account that had been applied for in another House, relative to the expenses incurred on the part of the Queen, which they all knew must be a mere trifle when compared with the sum expended in support of the bill. If this were not a proper and convenient time to ask for an account of the sums issued in supporting the bill, he could not imagine how it could be a proper and convenient time for granting an account of the expense incurred in defending the Queen.Mr. Whitbread
 said, he had no objection to laying the gross amount of the expenditure on the table of the House; but he believed it was not the intention of the hon. member to enter into the question of the general expenditure, but, as he understood him, to examine the expenditure in detail, and to object to some part of it. He would not press the previous question, but move for an account of the gross expenditure, as far as the same can be made up.Lord Castlercagh
 wished to ask the noble lord from what fund these sums of money had been drawn. The noble lord had said, on a former occasion, that the duke of Cornwall had a right to inquire into the conduct of his wife. Now, if he had a right to inquire into the conduct of the duchess of Cornwall, he (Mr. B.) conceived he had also a right to pay the expenses. He hoped the right hon. gentleman, or the noble lord would inform the House from what fund, whether large or small, the expenses of this inquiry were to be paid?Mr. Bennet
 said, that the expenses which had been incurred abroad were properly charged out of the secret-service money; but from the moment the investigation assumed the character of a public inquiry, it would be charged among the civil contingencies. His majesty's ministers were prepared to submit all the items charged out of the secret-service money to the same audit as every other part of the expenditure.Lord Castlereagh
 said, it was fresh in his recollection, when the vote for secret-service money was last before that House, that he put a question to the noble lord, having at that time in his mind the expenditure of the Milan commission. He had stated the great amount of the vote demanded, and the answer he had received, to the best of his remembrance, was this—the noble lord had said that the House must be aware that, during a long war, expenses would be incurred, chargeable on the secret-service money, which would not end at the termination of hostilities, but must be provided for during some time after. From this answer, he did not think that any part of the secret service money could be intended for the Milan commission; because the question was expressly put, in order to ascertain whether it was possible for his majesty's government, consistently with their oath, to take sums out of that fund for such a service? Now, however, to his utter astonishment, he found that they did make use of apart of that money, notwithstanding their oath, to effect this dirty purpose.Mr. Hume
ll99 said, if he recollected rightly, the hon. member had asked him a question as to the gross amount of such secret-service money for the year. He had observed, "Why, as you are now at peace, is there a necessity to call on parliament for so large a sum on account of secret services?" and he (lord C.)
ll99Lord Castlereagh
 said, he was desirous to know, as the noble lord had stated that one part of the proceeding was to be defrayed out of the secret-service money, from what fund his majesty's ministers intended to pay the residue of the expense? There had been no grant made by parliament, and be knew not from what fund he could take that money.Mr. Maberly
 said, that after the period had elapsed when the expenses had ceased to be defrayed from the secret-service money, bills had been drawn by the commission abroad, and answered by the foreign office. They would of course be sanctioned by the Treasury.Lord Castlereagh
ll replied, that this was a most dangerous mode of proceeding, and contrary to the usage of that House. If ministers had a right to take 1,000llMr. Maberly
100 observed, that the proceeding in this case was of the same nature as what took place with respect to the army extraordinancs. They consisted of items which had not been foreseen, and could not therefore be made matter of estimate in the first instance. The mode pursued was, to take a vote for a certain sum; and, in the next session of parlia-
100Mr. Huskisson
 said, there was a difference between the explanation by the noble lord and that which had been offered by the right hon. gentleman. The former had pointed to the secret-service money as the fund from whence the expenses were to be defrayed; while, the latter spoke of the civil contingencies. Be that, however, as it might, it was clear that, if the money were to be granted out of any public fund, ministers ought to come with some proposition to parliament on the subject. He was sure that the noble lord's construction of the act by which the secret-service money was regulated was not correct. If it were, if ministers could take such sums of money as those that had been mentioned, from that fund, under the plea that this proceeding came within the meaning of secret service, the most dangerous consequences might follow. If, when his majesty chose to follow his wife abroad, and to make efforts to procure evidence against her, such a proceeding, could be supposed to come under the act, as one, the expenses of which should be defrayed out of the secret-service money, it was time that the act should be revised, and that some means should be devised by parliament to prevent such an abuse of that fund. With respect to his hon. friend's motion, of course, he would only be able to procure the gross amount of the expenditure. But here he might be allowed to observe that, if the bill did not come to this House, it would then be a mere private business; there would be no claim whatever on that House to make good the expense. What then would ministers do? The only course left them would be, to apply to the king's private purse—a course which, he believed, they would not very readily pursue.Mr. Creevey
 wished to know, at what precise period the noble lord deemed the proceeding to be one to which secret-service money was no longer applicable.Mr. Bennet
 said, the proceeding became of a public nature from the time the message was sent down to both Houses of Parliament. The sums taken from the fund for secret service would be laid before parliament in the same manner as the expenses incurred for the defence of her majesty.Lord Castlereagh
 wished to know whether the Milan commission had acted from the outset under the sanction and with the approbation of his majesty's government?Mr. Hume
 said, it had the full knowledge and approbation of his majesty's ministers from the beginning. It was adopted in order to prepare for carrying on the proceeding in its present form, if the charges were gravely supported; and, on the other hand to set the matter at rest if they were found to rest on no solid foundation.Lord Castlereagh
 said, his decided opinion was, that the House would act criminally, if it consented to burthen the public with one shilling of the expense.Sir Gerard Noel
 said, he was ready to agree to a motion for an account of the expenses incurred on both sides in the proceeding now pending against the Queen, as far as the same could be made out.Lord Castlereagh
 accordingly withdrew his motion, and the motion suggested by lord Castlereagh was put and agreed to.Mr. Whitbread
ex post facto103102 rose, to present a petition from the burgh of Montrose deprecating the proceedings that were now in progress against her majesty. He could not avoid expressing his surprise at the observations of an hon. gentleman (Mr. K. Douglas), who, in the course of his speech, had called on his majesty's ministers to devise some means by which the liberty of the press might be checked, and by which the demonstration of public feeling, manifested at different meetings convened for the purpose of addressing her majesty, might be prevented. The respectable body whose petition he held in his hand, had met, and had addressed her majesty; and honourable members had not, he conceived, any right to condemn them or others for pursuing that line of conduct. In his opinion, those who assembled on such an occasion, to express their feelings, deserved praise instead of censure; they acted in an open and honourable manner, and he trusted
ex post facto103102Mr. Hume
105 expressed himself satisfied with the explanation of the right hon.
105Mr. Hume
 begged to put a question to the noble lord opposite, on the subject of the affairs of Portugal. Rumours were prevalent out of doors, that a large armament was about to be sent out from this country to Portugal, and that additional corps of yeomanry and militia were to be immediately provided to do the duty of the regular troops, who were to be called upon foreign service. These steps were, it was said, to be taken in consequence of the recent political occurrences in Portugal; and the effect of the rumour was to be seen in the depression and fluctuation of the funds. It was for the purpose of removing this alarm that he rose to ask the noble lord, whether he had any official information from Portugal respecting the recent events to which he alluded; and whether there was any ground for the alarm which was felt in the monied market?Mr. Hume
 replied, certainly not.Mr. Huskisson
 said, that it was a duty which the House owed to the memory of the individual, whose decease had just been communicated from the chair, to record upon their Journals the high sense which they entertained of his meritorious services.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that from some circumstances which had come to his knowledge, it was of great importance that the proceedings of this day, in the House of Lords, should be included in the motion.Mr. Tierney
 thought it was sufficient, to move generally for a committee to inquire into, and report upon the present state of the proceedings.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that any question not immediately connected with the innocence of her majesty, but connected with the manner in which the proceedings had originated, was a fit subject for the consideration of that House. He should move that it be an instruction to the committee to include the proceedings, of their lordships on this day.Mr. Tierney
751 rose, to present a petition from the inhabitants of Plymouth against the bill of Pains and Penalties against her majesty. It was signed by 2,000 inhabitants, the largest number of persons who had come forward upon a public question since the petitions against the property tax. The petitioners prayed that if the bill should ever come down to that House, the House would immediately throw it out. They were of opinion, that this proceeding, whether considered in a judicial or political point of view, was calculated to bring the administration of justice into contempt, and to endanger the security of the country. As this petition had been entrusted to him, he felt it his duty to present it. He had no hesitation in declaring that he entirely concurred in the sentiments of the petitioners; and that if ever the bill should come down from the other House, as he sincerely hoped it would not, he should be ready in his place to oppose it in every possible way. Without entering into the merits of the evidence which had been delivered before the House of Lords, he might be permitted to say, that the result of that evidence was not such as to make the people of England believe the Queen guilty. If the pretence for this bill were a tender regard for the morals of the country, be conceived that the whole ground of it taken away; if it had been entertained as a public measure, in order to prevent the effects of a bad example, it
751Lord John Russell
756"se l'on violast,"755754ab initio,753752 hoped that the House would pardon him for a short time, if he ventured to deliver his sentiments on the subject of this petition. That opinion was in entire concurrence with the sentiments expressed in the petition itself. He could not but regard its prayer, as he looked upon the mode in which this bill of pains and penalties had been instituted, and the record of which was now before them on their Journals, as not only a most unconstitutional violation of the parliamentary laws of this kingdom, but as endangering the safety of the lower and middling ranks, by first of all striking, as was the practice in former ages, at the lives of those who were in the highest. When he called such a mode of instituting a proceeding, and such a proceeding itself, a violation of the laws, he meant to say a violation of the statute of Edward 3rd, which was the statute of treasons, and a violation of the express declaration of our Magna Charta itself, which had ordained in these words:—"Nemo capiatur aut imprisonetur, aut aliquo modo destruatur; nisi per legale judicium parium suorum, vel per legem terræ." Now, this very bill of pains and penalties—this unjustifiable species of encroachment—was that "aliquis modus destruendi," which our ancestors had so well pointed out and with so much providence endeavoured to avert—a method of procedure which was now in a civilized age revived—which was at this day brought forward, against the authority of all precedents, and the force of all laws. He meant to say, and he said it unhesitatingly, that by this measure, the statute of Edward 3rd was
756"se l'on violast,"755754ab initio,753752Mr. Lockhart
768767 declared, that he was quite astonished at the motion with which the hon. member concluded, as it was so very incommensurate with the opening of his speech. But that motion itself was of a surprising character. For he believed it was the first time that an application was made to that House, in the first instance, to take cognizance of the irregularity of any magistrate, the usual way being to make such application to the Court of King's-Bench. But as to the opening of the hon. member's speech, he distinctly charged the existence of a conspiracy for the purpose of fabricating and circulating seditious and treasonable publications, of which he alleged that his majesty's ministers formed a part. What! that ministers should become a party to a confederacy for exciting discontent, for promoting sedition, for contriving the means of endangering the security of the government, and of the constitution of the country, merely with a view to defeat an endeavour to procure a service of plate for the Queen? The hon. member had often drawn upon the credulity of the country, but he himself could hardly calculate upon the acceptance of such a draft at sight as his statement of this evening presented. There was not surely such a lack of libels in the country as to render the assistance of government necessary to the manufacture of such articles. Mr. Carlile, Mr. Hone, and Mr. Wooler, were found, he believed, to produce quite enough of sedition, or of inflammatory and treasonable placards, to satisfy the amateurs of that species of composition, and to forward their object, without any aid from his majesty's government, which it was their object to overthrow. But, if ministers were parties to the conspiracy, which the hon. member alleged to exist, how clumsily must they have proceeded, according to his description. They, indeed, if the hon. member's information were correct, had selected an agent for the advancement of their end, who must necessarily have been brought into public view; for, as that hon. gentleman had stated, Franklin, who had absconded, was the confidential friend of ministers, with whom he dined on one day, while on the other he was found in a carriage with a multitude of seditious placards, accompa-
768767Lord Castlereagh
 maintained, that affidavits were produced by the hon. member from persons who stated that they had a knowledge of the proceedings of this alleged conspiracy since 1818, when the placard referring to sir Francis Burdett was promulgated during the Westminster election. Did the hon. gentleman then really mean, that persons who were so long in possession of the character and conduct of this plot, without making, until very lately, any disclosure upon the subject, were, entitled to the credit which he appeared to assume? The hon. member came forward with extra-judicial affidavits, which, if even full of falsehood, could not subject the deponents to any punishment; and yet, upon the faith which he claimed for such affidavits, he came down to that House to propose the institution of a parliamentary inquiry. If upon such grounds any proceeding was founded, it was scarcely possible to imagine into what awkward situations the House might be occasionally led. It must, indeed, suggest itself to any one acquainted with the laws of the country, that that House was not the proper place for such an inquiry as the hon. member desired to institute. Having said so much as to the folly and absurdity of the course which the hon. member proposed, with regard to a case already in a course of legal proceeding—Lord Castlereagh
 said, he could not answer for a department of which he was not at the head; but he had no doubt there would be every anxiety shown to bring the author of those placards to punishment.Lord Castlereagh
 expressed his satisfaction, that notwithstanding the activity with which those seditious and inflammatory placards had been circulated within the last few years, and the great distress and privation of most of the lower ranks of people during that time, they had been productive of so very little effect, and that it should be a matter of consideration, that perhaps some of those unfortunate persons who were now suffering in prison for having been connected with illegal meetings, might have been instigated by some of those placards.Lord John Russell
771ad referendum,770769 replied, that a warrant had been granted for the apprehension of Franklin, and, if justice should not appear to be duly administered, it would then be time enough to call upon that House to interfere. But, with respect to the case of Franklin, he would now state to the House an outline of what he understood to be the particulars of that case, and what remained, other gentlemen, from whom he obtained his information, would be ready to supply. It was only this day that he had been at all aware of the intention to bring the case before the House; and feeling it his duty to make every inquiry which the time afforded, he obtained all the information in his power upon the subject. But first he would assure the hon. member, that until
771ad referendum,770769Lord Castlereagh
in limine,774773in limine,; said, he knew not which was most to be admired, the lofty tone which the noble lord had maintained throughout his speech, or the lame and impotent conclusion, in which that speech had terminated. Surely, it might have been expected, that persons so anxious to prove their innocence before the House and the country would seize the first opportunity which presented itself for investigation. But the noble lord objected to examination even in limine,774773in limine,;Mr. Bennet
775 declared, that the Home-office, in which he had the honour to hold an appointment, had no knowledge of the case of Franklin until the Monday after Franklin's arrest. It was the custom of sir Robert Baker to attend at the Home-office every Monday for the purpose of making an official communication. Upon the Monday alluded to, some conversation took place with respect to Franklin, and the boy detected in circulating the seditious bills. But the first information of Franklin's non-appearance was brought to the office by Mr. Minshull, who made the application referred to by the noble secretary of state. Mr. Pearson came immediately after Mr. Minshull. The latter might, indeed, have almost met the former going down stairs. Mr. Pearson left with him two hand-bills, the one issued with respect to the trial of Brandreth, and the other upon the subject of the Queen's plate. He answered the applications of Mr. Minshull and Mr. Pearson doubtingly at first, but upon reference to lord Sidmouth, to whom he showed the papers left with him by Mr. Pearson, he was instructed by his lordship to say, that it would be inconsistent with official practice to comply with these applications, or to interfere with the police magistrates, who had ample powers to take proceedings for the apprehension of Franklin. Of this Franklin he had heard for the first time on the Monday after his arrest; and
775Mr. Clive
 declared his intention to support the motion. The worst symptom of the times was, the total want of confidence in the government of the country, which existed in all classes of the community, and amongst persons of every variety of political opinion. This want of confidence was an enormous evil, and it was the duty of the House to sift to the bottom any transaction which came before them in so questionable a shape as the present one. But his principal reason for rising was, to remark shortly upon a part of the speech of the noble secretary of state.—The noble lord had distinctly avowed, that he had given Mr. Pearson letters to the English ambassador at Paris, to aid him in the apprehension of Mr. Franklin. Now, it must be remembered, the offence charged was, the distribution of seditious hand-bills; and if the governments of Europe were under agreement to play into each other's hands in this way—mutually giving up persons who might be obnoxious to accusation for political misdemeanors, it would go, under the present circumstances of the world, to the establishment of the most unqualified tyranny. Our Alien act had been loudly declaimed against; but the enactments of our Alien bill shrunk into nothing, as compared with the exercise of arbitrary power, which it appeared the noble lord bad claimed of the government of France.Mr. Gurney
776 rose to explain how the case stood as to the facts mentioned in the latter part of the hon. member's speech. The assistance which was occasionally rendered by one country to secure the persons who had fled from justice in another, was only given in consequence of mutual arrangements. This country had been applied to to make such arrangements; but there was not one of the powers which had made those applications, respecting the securing of murderers and forgers, to which it had not been told, that whatever assistance they might give us, we could not give reciprocal assistance, as it was repugnant to the spirit of our laws; for whatever notion existed that the Alien act had been indirectly applied to that purpose was quite erroneous; ail foreign powers had been informed, that
776Lord Castlereagh
 said, his allusion was to the demand made for the giving up a person accused simply of seditious proceedings, and had no reference whatever either to murders, felonies, or other crimes.Mr. Gurney
l. wished to know whether the noble lord meant to let the matter rest in its present shape, and whether he would refuse that inquiry which was so necessary? Without imputing to the administration itself, a participation in the criminal matters which had been discovered, it was not too much to infer that there might be knaves and fools in the inferior departments of the government. Very grave facts had been stated, that had not been repudiated in any material respect. This fact especially remained unshaken, that notwithstanding the reasons stated by various gentlemen at the Home-office, steps were not taken to apprehend the offender, and that even as yet no reward had been offered, though in the case of the placard published at Glasgow, a reward of 500l.Mr. Bernal
 said, that in this, as in all other cases, he was the friend of the fullest inquiry, but he did not see any practical end that would be answered by calling sir Robert Baker to the bar. As to any participation which the government of the country was supposed to have had in the distribution of these placards, he could not conceive for a moment that they would have been so absurd as to commit such an act of suicide. The thing was improbable on the face of it, and he gave full credit to the assertions of the noble lord, which he had never any reason to question. He was sorry to agree with Mr. Gurney, that the government of the country was excessively unpopular, and that was a reason for the fullest inquiry. But, what was equally important, he was sorry to believe, that in such a state of feeling as existed, the people would be satisfied with no government whatever. The ministers had given reason for discontent; but all possible means had been employed to foment it.Sir John Sebright
, in explanation, denied having admitted, that the letters would be of no use. He had only stated, that foreign governments were not bound by any agreement to assist in the arrest of subjects of this country, except in the cases he had mentioned; but they had in many instances given that assistance, when they were not bound so to do. The case of the individual alluded to was only a misdemeanor, and they might if they pleased assist even in that.Lord Castlereagh
780 observed, that it was not the practice of the Home-department to offer
780Mr. Clive
 said, he had before compared the House to a pack of hounds, who were whipped in or out by the noble lord as by the hunter. So, it seemed, he still resolved to treat them. He objected to so long an adjournment. They should continue to meet, to attend to the affairs of the nation at this critical period. He would move, as an amendment, that the House, on its rising, adjourn to to-morrow.Sir G. Noel
 seconded the motion.Mr. P. Moore
786785 said, he quite agreed with the hon. baronet, that the adjournment proposed was very much too long, but he was not prepared to support the amendment for an adjournment only till to-morrow. It was very extraordinary that now, after the trial had proceeded so far, a proposal should be made to them for a longer adjournment than was proposed at the very commencement. The noble lord knew better than he did, what was going on; but when he saw that there had been printed nearly 900 pages of evidence, he thought he was not hasty in concluding, that the proceedings were advancing towards their termination. Yet the noble lord had now proposed an adjournment longer than on any former occasion. He had thought, on a former occasion, that time should be allowed to see what the Lords would do, not understanding that he was to be at all bound by their proceedings. But the present motion made them quite subservient to the proceedings of the Lords. As a spectator of their proceedings, he imagined, that they would close in a week. If there was a possibility of that kind, why should they adjourn for so long a period? If the noble lord could inform the House that the bill of Pains and Penalties would never be heard of more in this place, then he was ready to adjourn, not merely to the 23rd of November, but to the 23rd of January. The noble lord had said, that if the bill were thrown out by the Peers, the order for the call need not be enforced; but surely, even in that event, there would remain many matters to be discussed of a most serious character. The noble lord must forgive him for saying, that in the public mind there existed a general indignation against ministers for the pass to which they had brought the country. It would be no adequate satisfaction to the nation to be told hereafter,
786785Mr. Tierney
787data thanked the right hon. gentleman for the candour with which he had met the question. He would as fairly state the grounds upon which he differed with him. The calculation he had made was founded on nearly the same 787dataLord Castlereagh
 said, that even if the proceedings in the House of Lords were not to close sooner than three weeks, the utmost inconvenience that would occur to members, would be, in case the House now adjourned over for a fortnight, that they might possibly be detained in town for three or four days before any particular business would be entered on; but, on the other hand, if they were to adjourn to the 23rd of November, they would be exposed to much inconvenience, and her majesty to much injury. He could not comprehend any inconvenience, if the House were to adjourn to that day three weeks, to be then peremptorily called over; to adjourn for five weeks, would be to do that for which no fair reason had been assigned.Mr. Tierney
in toto, had no objection to the adjournment proposed, and trusted, that the reason for so long a separation was, a belief, on the part of ministers, that they would be enabled to get rid of a bill in toto,Sir W. De Crespigny
791790***à posteriori;"789788 trusted, that his right hon. friend would forgive him for saying that he had met this question in rather a strange way. He little expected that he would have talked of the private convenience of members, instead of meeting the subject with some expression, on the part of the House, of an opinion that it never would permit the bill of Pains and Penalties to enter its doors. It was a most strange consideration, and at the same time a most melancholy one, that the House of Commons, that House which ought to be the guardians of the laws and the defenders of public liberty, were the only body in the nation who appeared insensible to the alarming consequences of this bill. He would ask them to look to the petition presented that night from Plymouth. From the language of that petition, the parliament might learn what was due to the laws and constitution of England from the common inhabitants of the sea-port town of Plymouth. On a former occasion, it was stated in that House, that if the bill should be ever attempted to be brought before them, the best way of proceeding would have been, to move an address to
791790***à posteriori;"789788Mr. Creevey
 said, that he felt as warmly as any man, the constitutional objections to bills of pains and penalties. The principal difference between him and his hon. friend who spoke last being, that he (Mr. T.) was able in some degree to restrain and keep down his feelings. Yet he knew nothing of the evidence as a member of parliament; but he could not approve of the summary mode in which it had been proposed to get rid of it by a prorogation of parliament. Had he been in the House when it was moved, he should have voted against it. He begged clearly to be understood that it was not because he did not express his opinion at present that he was to be supposed to feel less warmly than others upon this subject.Mr. Tierney
793792 begged pardon of the House for rising at the present moment; but, after the call which had been made by his hon. friend, he deemed it incumbent upon every man to declare his unbiassed sentiments. He would not enter into a discussion upon the merits of the evidence; but he begged to state, that he, for one, would never, upon any public grounds yet promulgated, give his consent to this bill of Pains and Penalties. With respect to the measure before the House, it was so far connected with the proceedings in the House of Lords, as to entitle him to observe somewhat on those proceedings. They had before them a report, stating, that certain questions had been put to the learned Judges. Until he had heard that report read, he was altogether ignorant of its import. The import of those questions, if he understood them rightly, was, whether the House of Lords were entitled to inquire whether any undue and improper means had been employed to collect evidence against her majesty? He could only say, that if he had been of counsel for the prosecution against the meanest subject in the realm,
793792Mr. Scarlett
795794 said, he felt as much impressed as any man with the impropriety of being drawn into any discussion upon this subject at this premature period; but he could not in silence hear one set of gentlemen arrogate to themselves all purity of principle, and deny it to those with whom they differed upon political topics. Let them pause, and see whether, in the case in which they were involved, there were any ground for all this reprobation so unsparingly heaped upon their course. What was the course of that proceeding? Reports of a most degrading nature respecting the princess of Wales [A laugh]. If gentlemen who opposed his views refused to listen to any thing at variance with their own preconceived opinions, then there was an end to all freedom, or, indeed, utility of debate. [Hear, hear!] Reports of a most degrading nature respecting the conduct of the princess of Wales had reached this country; and, putting out of view all the statements of Italian witnesses, it was said, that an English lady of high rank and character, had been obliged to withdraw herself out of the Queen's society in Italy. These statements called for inquiry, and the step taken was the natural and proper one. A commission—that much abused commission—was sent out in consequence. Steps
795794Mr. W. Courtenay
799798797796 said, that he had meant to have complimented the hon. and learned gentleman, on the bold and manly course he had set out with taking, in defiance of popular feeling; but he found, in the progress of the hon. and learned gentleman's speech, that he must abandon this intention; for it seemed that, so far from having this boldness, he had happily and judiciously selected the favourable moment when he was to have the tide of popular feeling with him. For his own part, he must say, that, in the discharge of his public duty, he did not presume to know on which side of a question the tide of popular feeling ran. He always felt it to be his duty to take the course which his own judgment and sense of principle suggested, as becoming a representative of the people in parliament. But if he were to judge of the current of popular feeling on the question now in agitation, he should say that, so far from the tide being about to turn in favour of the opinion of the hon. and learned gentlemen opposite, the universal feeling was decidedly hostile to the pending investigation, and more particularly at the present time; and that, so far from
799798797796Mr. Calcraft
 rose for the purpose of recalling the attention of the House to the subject actually before it, which was nothing more nor less than what was the proper period to which they should adjourn. He hoped he might be allowed to do justice to one of his colleagues who had been attacked by the hon. gentleman opposite; and he would appeal to the knowledge of every person, whether his noble and learned colleague had ever been swayed by any private or improper motive, and whether the most unimpeachable integrity had not regulated his conduct for a period of forty years. The question upon which they had now to decide was, whether it was consistent with their duty, and consistent with justice, that they should now take a short adjournment, or extend it to a period of five weeks. The hon. gentleman opposite had stated, that he did not apprehend that the proceedings would be closed in a shorter period than three weeks. It was expedient therefore to decide, whether it was better to adjourn to that period by which it was calculated the proceedings might be finished, or by extending the period of adjournment a little further, to make themselves almost certain, that when they next met they should meet with a reasonable probability of proceeding at once to the consideration of the subject. He apprehended that the interests of the public would be best consulted by adopting the proposition of his noble friend, and he felt certain, that if it should fall to their lot to take into consideration the question now occupying the other House of parliament, that they would do it with the same impartiality, and to the satisfaction of the public.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
, in explanation, denied, that he had said a word in disparagement of the integrity of the noble and learned lord alluded to. As a Judge he believed him honest to the back-bone.Mr. Calcraft
l802801 said, he was one of those who did not wish to confine the question to the mere motion of adjournment, and keep the merits of the great question wholly out of sight. Such might be the policy of the noble lord, who had left that consideration wholly out of his view; indeed, it was to be judged of, from the manner in which the speech of the only honourable gentleman who ventured to open his mouth on the subject was received. He thanked his hon. friend (Mr. Creevey) for the tone he had as-
l802801Lord Folkestone
804803 said, he should not
804803Mr. Wellesley Pole
806"With more discerning eyes or hands more clean."In Israel's court ne'er sat an Abdethin805 said:—Sir; my sentiments having been so frequently declared on the subject, I should not now trouble the House, were it not for an observation which fell from the right hon. gentleman who has just sat down. That gentleman seems to think it exceedingly absurd and inconsistent, that the hon. member below me should describe the lord chancellor as being a respectable judge, although he cannot approve of him as a statesman. This criticism was so much applauded by the gentlemen opposite, that I rise to remind them, that there is nothing anomalous whatever in such a character, and that to consider such an inconsistency as unnatural, shows a most lamentable ignorance of human nature. Many names might be mentioned of judges, who, in causes between private individuals, have observed a strict impartiality, but have been notoriously profli-
806"With more discerning eyes or hands more clean."In Israel's court ne'er sat an Abdethin805Mr. Hobhouse
 joined in the suggestion to the member for Aberdeen to withdraw his motion. As to Sir R. Baker, he was convinced that he was as incapable of stating a falsehood as any man in or out of those walls.Mr. C. Calvert
 could not vote for the motion, but said, that for several months past he had seen with indignation the activity with which placards of the most inflammatory nature had been circulated, to excite the people to discontent. He thought that this could not have been carried on to such an extent if the Home-department had been sufficiently active, and had employed agents either to pull down the placards, or to bring the authors to punishment.Mr. Gipps
779778 said, he was very forcibly impressed by what had been said by an hon. gentleman as to the state of the public mind, which demanded a full inquiry into all proceedings of the nature of that which had been brought under their attention. The noble lord should bear in mind, that whatever he might say, whether the magistrates might be justified or not, whether the Home-department was in the right or not, a general impression prevailed in the country, that the government, in order to produce explosions, were accustomed to employ agents, who systematically urged the discontented to go greater lengths than they would otherwise go to. The fact, too, yet remained unexplained and unanswered, why a reward had not been offered. Here was a case in which a person had been distributing placards almost treasonable; he was apprehended, and taken to the Police-office, and then a different magistrate from the one who had caused him to be apprehended comes, and on what he considers the assurance of a respectable gentleman, discharges him. The man absconds—on the face of it this was an implication of guilt, and yet the government said, that there was on the face of this nothing which justified their interference! But what said the noble lord to this? Why, that it was all a dexterous plan of the radicals; and so because the noble lord was pleased to suppose that it might turn out to be a
779778Mr. Tierney
 entirely concurred with the noble lord, that the House was bound to mark its respect to an individual who had so long and so faithfully discharged the duties of the situation which he filled in that House.Mr. Tierney
781prima facie said, he only wished to express his entire concurrence in the recommendation to his hon. friend to reconsider his motion, and to postpone his proceedings till the ordinary means of detection, and he might add, the ordinary means of defence had been resorted to; for though there might be a 781prima facieMr. Brougham
749, in presenting a petition from the inhabitants of Liverpool, begged leave to call the attention of the House for a few minutes to the statements which it contained. He was aware that one topic occupied almost exclusively the attention of parliament and the public; still, however, the state of the country required that the House should take the subject of this petition into early consideration. The increase of pauperism in the town of Liverpool, which the petitioners ascribed chiefly to the distressed state of their trade, was truly alarming. So great was the increase, that not more than 20,000 of the inhabitants of Liverpool were rated. The population of that town was somewhat above 100,000, say 110,000; out of that number he was instructed by the mayor, who had called the meeting at which the resolutions upon which this petition was founded were passed, to inform the House, that 20,000 only were rated, and of these 7,000 were incapable of paying the annual rates. The petitioners were aware that the House had taken the
749General Gascoyne
 asked, where?Mr. Hume
 said, No, from September last.Mr. Hume
766aliasalias765"Let us, in this mighty crisis, bear in mind, that the great are not our only foes. Those middle ranks who make us hew and draw; and dole their pittance to us according to their humour—these are our most grinding enemies. What is the constituent body but the tyrants of the non-represented? What are the ten thousand wretches who, in Westminster, voted against Mr. Hunt, but oppressors of their non-franchised fellow-citizens—content to crawl before the higher orders, that we may continue slaves to both. Alike then, and equal, be their common destiny. The brave, though starving outstanders of Manchester should be avenged in London. Shall non-represented Britons in such a cause, be scared by the fear of gibbets or bayonets? Be' our remonstrance to the Crown decorous, but let us, in one heroic day, convince mankind that the grievances of non-representation are now become insupportable. ONE OF THE NON-REPRESENTED.—September 7, 1818."764crim. con.763"To the Non-Represented.—May that day
763762"Arthur Scale, of No. 160, Tottenham-court-road, in the county of Middlesex, printer, on his oath saith, that in the latter end of June, or the beginning of July, 1818,a man of gentlemanly appearance, who was then a stranger, called at my office, and asked me if I would print some bills, saying, if I would undertake to do them, it would be very beneficial, as there would be a great deal to do in the same way, and he then produced the manuscript of a bill; I read the bill, and perceiving that it was of an inflammatory nature, I hesitated doing them, whereupon he said he would allow me a little time to make up my mind, and accordingly he went away, and returned in about two hours, when I still scrupled, and he said, I need not fear, for that I should be protected in all I did. I then asked his name and address; he answered, that was of no consequence, for I might rely,
762761l.760l.759758l.l.757 said, he rose to call the attention of the House to a question of considerable importance, a question involving consequences more extensive than those who had not traced the progress of the mischief, as he had done, could easily believe, and calculated to bring before their view a series of proceedings, the manifest object and tendency of which was, to disturb the peace of the country. The motion with which he should conclude was, that sir Robert Baker, the chief magistrate of Bow-street office, should be called to the bar of that House to answer for his conduct, in permitting the escape of an individual charged with circulating a seditious hand-bill. He would prove, that the practice had been carried to a great extent, and that the mischievous consequences had spread further and been felt more severely, both in England and Scotland, than would on the first statement appear credible. The conspiracy, for a conspiracy he would call it, he would prove it to be such hereafter in the committee, as he had no doubt that the House would see the necessity of appointing one to investigate
766aliasalias765"Let us, in this mighty crisis, bear in mind, that the great are not our only foes. Those middle ranks who make us hew and draw; and dole their pittance to us according to their humour—these are our most grinding enemies. What is the constituent body but the tyrants of the non-represented? What are the ten thousand wretches who, in Westminster, voted against Mr. Hunt, but oppressors of their non-franchised fellow-citizens—content to crawl before the higher orders, that we may continue slaves to both. Alike then, and equal, be their common destiny. The brave, though starving outstanders of Manchester should be avenged in London. Shall non-represented Britons in such a cause, be scared by the fear of gibbets or bayonets? Be' our remonstrance to the Crown decorous, but let us, in one heroic day, convince mankind that the grievances of non-representation are now become insupportable. ONE OF THE NON-REPRESENTED.—September 7, 1818."764crim. con.763"To the Non-Represented.—May that day
763762"Arthur Scale, of No. 160, Tottenham-court-road, in the county of Middlesex, printer, on his oath saith, that in the latter end of June, or the beginning of July, 1818,a man of gentlemanly appearance, who was then a stranger, called at my office, and asked me if I would print some bills, saying, if I would undertake to do them, it would be very beneficial, as there would be a great deal to do in the same way, and he then produced the manuscript of a bill; I read the bill, and perceiving that it was of an inflammatory nature, I hesitated doing them, whereupon he said he would allow me a little time to make up my mind, and accordingly he went away, and returned in about two hours, when I still scrupled, and he said, I need not fear, for that I should be protected in all I did. I then asked his name and address; he answered, that was of no consequence, for I might rely,
762761l.760l.759758l.l.757Mr. Hume
783 said, that though he still thought the motion which he had made was proper on the commencement of the inquiry, he should yield to the superior experience of others, and withdraw it. The noble lord had made a bold assertion when in defence of the placards he had said, that more seditious publications daily issued from the press of Wooler and Hone. If the noble lord was sincere, he had then passed the severest censure on the attorney-general, who had suffered them to go unnoticed. But he utterly denied that such was the fact, or that Mr. Hone or Mr. Wooler ever published anything like those placards. It was a piece of injustice, and only a trick of the noble
783Mr. Hume
nem. con. said, he would venture to suggest the propriety of a motion, which it was competent for any hon. gentleman to make if he should think fit. It was in the power of any member to move, that the vote of the year 1797, passed in acknowledgment of Mr. Hatsell's services, should be now read, and the repetition of that vote would then form a part of the proceedings of this day.nem. con.The Speaker
 said, he had to inform the House that John Hatsell, esq. late clerk of that House, died on Sunday morning and that his majesty would speedily appoint a clerk.The Speaker
782 believed he had been misunderstood in what he had said with respect to sir Robert Baker. He had stated, and he repeated the assertion, that from the knowledge he had of that gentleman, he believed him wholly incapable of acting from a corrupt motive. But if any fault was found with his conduct, the King's-bench was the place where that conduct might be inquired into. As to the offering of a reward, it was not customary to
782Mr. Beckett
instanter, was anxious, in addition to the statement of his hon. friend, to mention, that in the course of his experience it was not the practice of government to offer rewards in such cases as the one alluded to. They usually offered rewards in cases of murder, burglary, and other cases of violence; and the reason was, that the party being likely to escape, the offer of a reward would tend to prevent the purposes of justice from being defeated; but it was only in cases where it was supposed that the ordinary methods would fail that such rewards were offered. But this application was made instanter,Mr. Beckett
 wished to know whether, in case of the apprehension of Fletcher, the law-officers would be directed to prosecute? If not, the expense would fall upon individuals, and there would be no more possibility of redress, than there was for the sufferers at Manchester.Sir R. Wilson
1595 presented a Message from his Majesty [See the proceedings of the Commons]. He said, that it being most desirable that the House should be unanimous in agreeing to an address to his majesty of condolence for the loss of the king, his father, and of congratulation on his present majesty's accession, which it was his intention to move immediately, he was anxious to avoid any question that might tend to produce a difference of opinion, and he should therefore move that that part of the message which related to the calling of a new parliament, and the-measures to be adopted in consequence, be taken into consideration tomorrow.—This being ordered, the noble earl proceeded to move an address to his majesty. He said, he was so convinced that the feelings of all who heard him were upon this subject completely in unison with his own, that he thought it would be needlessly trespassing upon their lordships patience to dilate upon topics which must suggest themselves to every person in the House, and the effect of which, by dwelling upon them, could only be weakened. He was most anxious, that upon such a subject the House should be unanimous, and the address had with that view been drawn up so as to afford no ground whatever for any difference of opinion, although in so doing he had not in any manner sa-
1595The Earl of Liverpool
 was convinced, that there must be a most anxious desire in their lordships to proceed in the manner which the noble earl had pointed out. The deep sense which the House entertained of the great virtues of his late majesty left no doubt of their concurrence in the expressions of condolence contained in the address. It was his hope that that good understanding which it was most desirable should subsist between the Crown and the parliament would always continue; and therefore their lordships might be expected to join in the confidence expressed by the noble earl. For his part, he readily concurred in the address, because it went no farther than the occasion required, and pledged the House to nothing but that to which all must be prepared to agree.The Marquis of Lansdowne
1596 was sensible, that if all the noble lords who were anxious to manifest their concurrence in the address should rise to express that disposition, it could only be voted when all had delivered their sentiments. If, however, he made any claim to their indulgence while he expressed sentiments in which all their lordships participated, he must confess that that claim was one of a selfish nature; for those with whom he was connected had been honoured with great marks of royal favour by their late
1596The Marquis of Buckingham
 said, it was the farthest from his wish to interrupt that unanimity which he had no doubt would prevail upon this occasion; but there appeared to him to be an omission, which, if he was irregular in noticing, he should, no doubt, be told so. He alluded to the circumstance of there being no condolence included in the address, with regard to the death of the duke of Kent.The Earl of Darnley
nem. diss., said, it was undoubtedly his intention to move an address of condolence to his majesty on the lamented death of the duke of Kent, and also to the duchess of Kent; but he thought it better that the address he had already moved should stand as the single proceeding of this night.nem. diss.,The Earl of Liverpool
1600║ of Liverpool moved the order of the
1600║The Earl
1601 said, if he had had any doubt on the preceding day as to the propriety of separating the question as to the calling a new parliament without delay, from the subject of addressing the king in condolence on the death of the late sovereign, that doubt would have been entirely removed by the remark made by the noble marquis, that such an intimation was entirely unprecedented; It was undoubtedly true that it was unprecedented, but it should be recollected that the situation in which they were placed was also unprecedented. It was not the case of the transfer of the Crown and all the administration of the government at once to a successor, but here the illustrious individual on the throne had administered the government for a considerable time, and was now called upon to do that in his own name and behalf, which he had hitherto done in the name and on the behalf of the late king. With regard to the question of dissolving the parliament, according to the common law of the land, the parliament ceased its functions on the demise of the Crown, and the act which passed for enabling the parliament to sit for six months afterwards, might be called an exception to that law. With regard to the motive for passing that act, it appeared to have been intended to provide against a disputed succession. But undoubtedly the act did not fetter the monarch, in the exercise of his prerogative, who might at once, if he pleased, exercise that prerogative by dissolving the parliament; it was merely a question as to the public interest or convenience. It was true, that with regard to the civil list, it had been usual for the parliament sitting at the demise of the Crown, to pass a measure for arranging the civil list; but this, which was a proper compliment to the Crown, there was no necessity to bring forward, when the Crown itself, as in the present instance, waived the immediate consideration of it. This, therefore, being put aside for the present, at the instance of the Crown, it must be obvious to every one, that there were circumstances connected with the knowledge that a new parliament must be called within a certain period, that rendered it inconvenient to proceed to any public business that was not absolutely necessary. These circumstances
1601The Earl of Liverpool
1602 expressed his surprise that the noble earl had not afforded any explanation as to the reasons or the motives for the sudden dissolution of the parliament. He believed it to be contrary to all precedent for the Crown to put to the consideration of parliament the question as to its own dissolution. It was undoubtedly true, that the king, in the exercise of his prerogative, might dissolve the parliament at the moment of its meeting on his accession; but when the question of a dissolution was put to parliament itself, they might, with perfect propriety, consider what had been the practice upon similar occasions; and when it was urged as a reason for now dissolving the parliament, that it would be for the public interest and convenience, it might be fairly answered, and this too on the authority of the noble earl himself, that the present was the most convenient period for entering upon the consideration of public business. When, however, this plea of convenience was urged, it would be found, upon looking back to the periods of the accession of our sovereigns, since the reign of William 3rd, when the act was passed, authorizing the parliament to continue sitting six months after the demise of the Crown, that at periods much more inconvenient than the present, parliament had continued sitting, and had, before their separation, uniformly passed the civil list bill. Thus, on the accession of queen Anne, in March, on that of George 1st, in August, of George 2nd, in June, and the late king in October, the parliament in each case continued sitting, and passed the civil list bill within a short period of the meeting. Why these precedents were to be departed from, the noble earl had not explained. Neither had he explained how the public service was to be provided for in the interval, or how the dignity of the Crown was to be
1602The Marquis of Lansdowne
 contended, that there was time enough to complete any measures that might be necessary, without dissolving the parliament, and objected strongly to the continuance of so large a standing army in time of peace. Was it for a purpose which ministers could not avow—was it to support themselves in administration, that this extraordinary burthen was to be continued in the present distressed condition of the country?Earl Grosvenor
1603 thought that great inconvenience would be found to attend the immediate dissolution of parliament. With respect to the consideration of the civil list, he thought it would be better that it should be arranged by parliament, instead of being submitted to the public—as it was, in effect, by being postponed until the general election had taken place. The House would recollect,
1603The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, his noble friend had shown, that if it was convenient at any time to continue the sitting of parliament, it was convenient now. But then it was objected, that members of parliament would have so much of their own business to attend to, they would neglect the business of their constituents. For his own part, he should have drawn a contrary conclusion. If there was any period when members of parliament attended more particularly to the business of their constituents than another, it was when they were about to be dissolved. In the present condition of the country, a strong ground should be made out to justify an immediate dissolution; and he had no hesitation in saying, that those who could give such advice without such a ground, had not done their duty either to the king or to the country.The Earl of Caernarvon
1604 said, that the immediate dissolution would bring them to May before the new parliament could meet, and he would leave it to the House to con-
1604Lord King
ipso facto said, that according to the law of parliament in former times, on the demise of the Crown, the parliament was ipso factoThe Lord Chancellor
 observed, that it must be, in his opinion, obvious, that with all the preparations and arrangements that were making, with a view to a dissolution of parliament, which it was known must take place within a certain period, it was impossible for the members of the other House to pay that attention which was requisite to the measures to be proposed to them. As to any difficulty in providing for the public service in the interim, the course to be pursued was intended to be the same as in 1807 and in 1784, when a dissolution took place about the same period; and with regard to providing for the dignity of the Crown, though there might perhaps be some slight difficulty, yet it might readily be done by a vote of credit out of the remaining hereditary revenues of the Crown.The Earl of Harrowby
 observed, that the whole business of the session was yet to be done, and contended that it would be impossible to get through it in time to prepare for a dissolution at the end of six months. With regard to the precedents alluded to, he would have their lordships to consider in what state the public business was on those different occasions. In those cases, there was no necessity for adopting the course which, under the present circumstances, appeared expedient. Besides, since the death of his late majesty, there had been more excitation throughout the country, on the prospect of the new elections, than probably existed at any former period. Perhaps there was not an instance known before, in which the same paper that communicated the death of the king contained an advertisement from a candidate for the representation of a county.Earl Bathurst
1633l.,l.l.,l.,l.,1632 rose, in pursuance of notice, observing that the case he had to state was so plain and clear that there was no necessity for taking up much of their lordships' time. It had been the uniform practice of parliament, for a great number of years, that all the votes of supply passed by the House of Commons, during the session, should be included in an appropriation bill, which came up to that House for its assent in the usual way, and it was the undoubted right of their lordships thus to exercise a legislative power with regard to the supplies voted by the other House. In the present instance that practice had, without any necessity, been departed from, and he thought it was incumbent upon their lordships to assert their undoubted rights, and to pass some resolution disapproving of such a proceeding— a proceeding which was certainly contrary to the constitution, and which was so decided in 1784, when the House of Commons passed a resolution, declaring it a high crime and misdemeanor for any officer of the Crown to apply money in any branch of the public service without the authority of an act of parliament. But in this case there were not only the votes of sums of money for the public service, but the House of Commons had actually voted a sum of money to pay annuities under the civil list act, which expired on the demise of his majesty; and they had thus assumed a power, of their own authority, to suspend the operation of the law which declared that these annuities should not be paid. This particularly applied to the case of the annual sum granted to the princess of Wales. Were ministers aware to what extent these votes went? Was it not the effect of them to continue to the king the income granted to his majesty as prince of Wales, as well as the amount of the civil list, whilst a portion of the hereditary revenues also fell to the Crown? Respecting the latter there was no account, and ministers themselves did not seem to be aware of the extent to which the votes
1633l.,l.l.,l.,l.,1632The Earl of Lauderdale
1634 observed, that it had been the invariable practice of parliament since the revolution, for no grant to be made, nor any sum to be levied upon the people, without, the authority of an act of parliament; and this was so strictly adhered to, that in the case of a loan, though the bargain was made between the first lord of the treasury and the chancellor of the exchequer and the contractors, and the first instalment actually paid, still it was paid into the Bank, and not touched by any one till authorized to be drawn out for the public service by an act of parliament. But with respect to votes of supply, the practice had been different; it had been the constant practice for the House of Commons to vote various sums for different branches of the public service, under the authority of which votes alone the money had been applied. It was true that all these votes were included in the Appropriation bill; but the fact was, that frequently, particularly if the session was long, half the money wanted for the different branches of the public service had been expended before that bill was brought up to that House. He could not see any difference of principle, therefore, between the case
1634The Earl of Liverpool
1635 said, the question was one of the greatest importance, as affecting the constitutional rights of that House; and when it was asserted that their lordships had in their address to the throne agreed to expedite the public business as much as possible, he must tell the noble earl that they had not agreed to abandon their constitutional rights. The cases where the House of Commons acted in the usual manner in their votes, without being informed of there being any intention on the part of the Crown to dissolve them, were totally different from the present instance, where
1635The Marquis of Lansdowne
l., said, the vote on account of the civil list was for a specific sum, 200,000l.,The Earl of Liverpool
 acquiesced in the amendment, by which he thought quite enough was done to protect the privileges of the House.The Earl of Donoughmore
1636 presented a petition from the mayor and aldermen of Barnstaple against the Writs Suspension bill, and praying that they might be heard by counsel against it
1636The Earl of Lauderdale
1637 objected to the amount of the force with which the country was burdened, but he did not mean to op-pose the bill in the present state of the public business He could not, however, look with any satisfaction at the termination of the present parliament, when he reflected upon the various measures that might have been taken into consideration with advantage to the public, but which would be interrupted by the dissolution; and when he considered also that there was in reality nothing, so far as he could understand, that need have prevented the session from being carried on to its usual termination. Amongst the important questions which ought to have been taken into consideration and determined upon, was the civil list; instead of which, the dignity of the Crown was actually left without any provision for its support. Connected with this subject there was also another important question relative to the situation of the queen; which whenever it did come under consideration he should discuss with the utmost freedom. He put it to the noble lords opposite, whether they ought not, before dissolving the present parliament, to have considered whether they could not have brought forward some measure for' the amelioration of the condition of the people? It could not be denied that much
1637Earl Grosvenor
 spoke to order, observing, that it was highly improper to charge any body of men, whether on the ministerial or opposition side, of the House, with conduct that tended to excite to assassination.The Earl of Lauderdale
 disclaimed the slightest intention of imputing to any persons conduct that tended to excite to assassination; he only meant to dwell upon the expediency of resorting to such measures as might tend to alleviate the discontent of the people: he did not mean that any effort should be made to satisfy wretches who conspired assassination, but that conduct should be pursued to conciliate a considerable portion of the people who were suffering under distress, arising from, the great pressure of taxation.Earl Grosvenor
16391638 said, it had been the practice of the House of Commons for a long series of years to suspend the issue of new writs to boroughs charged with corruption, until, the, case, of such boroughs
16391638The Earl of Caernarvon
16411640 said he had no wish that the present bill should be disposed of by any thing like a side wind; for though it was true that upon public measures it was not the practice to hear counsel, yet in that case the interests of Parties so directly affected, that it
16411640The Earl of Liverpool
 declared his intention of voting for the bill.The Earl of Darnley
 did not conceive that any argument which might be urged by counsel could at all change the opinion which he entertained on the subject. A noble earl had talked of the necessity of consulting the feelings and interest of the public. It was the conviction of his mind, resulting from long experience, that the only effectual mode of consulting the feelings and interest of the public was, by doing justice Let parliament invariably do justice, and justice would eventually be done to them. Now, in the present instance, he contended it would be the height of injustice to agree to the bill, and. thereby suspend the rights of a portion of the people, without any ground which would render such a proceeding warrantable. It was impossible that their lordships could be satisfied to take such a step without any evidence to show its expediency. Under existing circumstances, any attempt to obtain such evidence, at their own bar, would be futile; and, with all possible respect for the House of Commons, no noble lord, he presumed, would argue that their lordships should proceed on the evidence taken before a committee of that House. Even if that evidence were admissible by their lordships, it did not at all go to the question of the expediency of disfranchising the boroughs in question, but merely established the corruption of a part of the electors. The fact, that the House of Commons permitted four of the members for those boroughs to retain their seats, was a conclusive proof of this.The Lord Chancellor
1642 supported the bill. He was quite aware that a certain apparent inequality in the representation was desirable, as producing a greater real equality of representation than any theoretical system proceeding on a different principle. But he maintained, that when this was carried to excess, it ought to be corrected. He admitted, that individuals and bodies of individuals ought to be protected in their rights; but it should never be forgotten, that they possessed those rights, and ought to exercise them, not for selfish purposes, but for the general benefit. All that the bill tended to do was, to suspend the exercise of the
1642The Marquis of Lansdowne
 farther explained the misapprehension which had taken place with respect to what had fallen from him at an earlier period of the evening, and expressed his conviction that no noble lord could for a moment suppose him capable of palliating the dreadful atrocity recently contemplated. On the question immediately before their lordships, he entirely concurred in the opinion of his noble friend who had just sat down.Earl Grosvenor
 said:—My lords, I have the honour to announce to your lordships, in the name of the House of Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, that his majesty's faithful Commons have proceeded to the choice of a Speaker, and that that choice has fallen upon me. I am fully aware, my lords, of the arduous duties of the situation to which I have thus been chosen, and of my own insufficiency to perform those duties. Should, however, it be his majesty's pleasure to reject the choice thus made by his faithful Commons, it is consolatory to me to know that there are many members of the House much better qualified than myself to fulfil the office of Speaker, upon any one of whom their choice may most advantageously devolve.Mr. Manners Sutton
—Mr. Manners Sutton; his majesty being fully aware of your tried ability and zeal for the public service, has commanded us to signify his most gracious approbation of the choice made by his faithful Commons of you to be their Speaker.The Lord Chancellor
—My lords, I humbly submit myself to his majesty's most gracious pleasure. It becomes, therefore, my duty, in the name of his majesty's faithful Commons, to claim their ancient and undoubted privileges, namely, freedom from arrest and molestation for themselves, their servants and estates, freedom of debate, and free access to his majesty whenever occasion shall require it. I have also, coy lords, further to request, in the name of his majesty's faithful Commons, that the most favourable construction may be put upon all their proceedings, and that if any mistake should arise, it may be imputed to me, and not to them.The Speaker
10—Mr. Speaker; we have it in command from his majesty, most graciously to allow to his faithful Commons all the privileges and immuni-
10The Lord Chancellor
17161514 rose to move an address of thanks. The noble lord said, that being of late not much accustomed to public speaking, he felt considerable embarrassment in addressing their lordships on the present occasion, and that embarrassment could not fail to be increased when he considered how many noble lords there were now around him who were far better qualified than himself to do justice to the task he had undertaken; but it was at the same time highly satisfactory to him, while performing this duty, to reflect, that the speech which had, on this important occasion, been delivered from the throne, was one the language of which was of a nature almost to preclude discussion; and that the sentiments of the address he was about to move, were such as must necessarily command the general, he might say the unanimous, concurrence of their lordships. This consideration was more peculiarly satisfactory at the present moment, for there never was a period when it was of so much import-
17161514Lord Viscount Granville
19 said, that in speeches from the throne, at the commencement of a new session of parliament, it was generally thought proper to include a view of the system which ministers meant to pursue for the year; and it was a general practice, in those opposed to them, to enter into a discussion or consideration of all the topics so introduced. But on such an occasion as the present, at the commencement of a new reign—when his majesty had been in the House for the first time since his accession—when he had addressed to their lordships his first speech—it was desirable to avoid the introduction or the discussion of any subjects which might lead to a difference of opinion. Although, therefore, he felt, that at other times it was proper to discuss the topics of speeches from the throne, to whatever difference of opinion they might lead, he was glad that such a course was not necessary now. It was in every respect, to be wished that the first address to the throne from the first parliament of his majesty's reign should be adopted unanimously; and, to be Unanimous, it was desirable that no discussion should be provoked on subjects likely to create
19Earl Grosvenor
23222120 said, that he looked with sincere satisfaction to the course which had been pursued, and the result to which their lordships were likely to come. For, whether he considered
23222120The Marquis of Lansdowne
262524 said, he hoped their lordships would excuse him if he trespassed on their attention for a short time. After the manner in which the address had been moved by his noble friend—after the speech in which it had been seconded; and after the manner in which the two noble lords opposite had concurred in the address, he trusted he should not be considered as rising on this occasion to detain them for more than a few moments. He could assure their lordships it was not his intention to bring before them any topic which could create a difference of opinion, or which could tend to prevent that unanimity so desirable at the present moment. That unanimity must be desirable to their lordships, from every circumstance connected with the business of the day. This was the first occasion that they had met their sovereign in that House, and it was most desirable that their lordships should be unanimous in going up to him with an address of thanks for his most gracious speech. But when they looked at the tenour of that speech—when they viewed that part where the illustrious individual was personally concerned—he was satisfied they would take that opportunity of going up with the address with unanimity and gratitude for the gracious sentiments which he had expressed. The noble lord who moved the address had well said, that his majesty had that day given a proof of magnanimous disinterestedness in everything which concerned himself. This was important in itself, as it was calculated to rivet him in the affections of his people; it was important, as it afforded an excellent example to those who were under him—and it was important, as it showed
262524The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he was very unwilling to detain their lordships at the present moment, and in the few observations which he should offer he would abstain from every topic which might tend to disturb the unanimity of the House; but if he concurred, as he was certainly disposed to do, in this address, he must not be supposed to pay any compliment to the wisdom and energy of the last parliament, or to retract any thing which had been said on certain subjects by noble lords on his side of the House. He conceived that some of the last acts of the late parliament had been productive of nothing but mischief; and, if there was any improvenent visible in the country since then, which he hoped might be found to be the case, it was by no means to be attributed to the operation of those acts. With these reservations he would support the motion.Lord Holland
 gave notice, that he would take an early opportunity of presenting a petition to the House, affecting in an especial manner the interests of the beneficed clergy. It related, too, very particularly to three right reverend lords if the House. He should be happy to hear from any of the learned prelates, when it would be convenient for them to attend to the subject.Lord Holland
 said, that any time would be equally convenient to him. Lord Holland accordingly fixed upon to-morrow se'nnight; and their lordships were ordered to be summoned.The Bishop of Exeter
18 of Effingham rose to second it. The noble lord alluded particularly to that part of the speech which related to the distress of the country, and the necessity of protecting the loyal and peaceable against the effect of those principles of sedition and irreligion which led to riot and disturbance, by taking advantage of the irritation which that distress created. It was not strange, he said, that severe distress should be felt, when the fluctuation of our commerce and industry were considered. At one time we had nearly the commerce of the world, and our population was fully employed in branches of industry, either for the supply of domestic or foreign demand. Now that commerce was much reduced by being shared among other nations, and our manufacturers aid artisans were thrown out of work. They were consequently reduced to a state of poverty, and became an easy prey; to the arts of the designing and the wicked. But, from whatever cause disaffection arose,
18Lord Howard
d.86d.s.l. rose to move for an account of the market Price of Silver, with the view of ascertaining whether it was not under the Mint price. He thought it very necessary that their Lordships attention should be directed to this subject; for if it should appear, as he believed would be found to be the case, that the market price of silver was less than the Mint price, that would be a proof that the currency was debased. The only rule for ascertaining this fact, was a comparison of the price of the precious metals; for a comparison with paper afforded no means of judging. It appeared that the Bank bought gold at the rate of about 3d.86d.s.l.Lord King
 wished to ask the noble lord opposite a question, in reference to the civil list establishment, which was likely soon to come under their lordships consideration. He should be glad to know whether it was the intention of the noble lord to propose the appointment of a committee to inquire into the state of that establishment, or to give any information to the House which might be thought necessary, before the question came under consideration.The Marquis of Lans-downe
 said, he did not intend to move for any committee. As to information, the noble marquis was aware that when the civil list was settled in 1816, the accounts thought necessary at that time were laid before parliament. That information was still accessible to their lordships, and he thought it sufficient to enable their lordships to discuss the question which would come before them.The Earl of Liverpool
8887 reminded the noble earl of what had passed when this subject gave rise to considerable discussion some years ago. It had been then, and on other occasions when the question was adverted to, uniformly stated, that when a new reign should commence an opportunity would be afforded to parliament for a complete investigation of the state of the civil list. This he believed was distinctly stated by the minister who made the arrangement in 1816. He had undoubtedly heard with much satisfaction the declaration made on the part of the Crown on the first day of the session relative to the civil list; but that declaration did not relieve parliament from the duty of now fully considering the subject, in order to ascertain whether the difference in the state of the country, and other circumstances, did not render it necesary that a new arrangement should be made. He was, therefore, justified in calling for the reprinting of the accounts which had been laid before parliament in 1816, and
8887The Marquis of Lansdownne
9089 had no objection to the reprinting of the accounts to which the motion referred; but, though he did not wish to enter into any discussion on the topics on which the noble marquis had touched, he thought that some things which had dropped from him called for a few observations. He wished, in the first place, to remark, that there was no precedent for the course of inquiry which the noble marquis was desirous of seeing adopted on the present occasion. If they looked back to the commencement of any former reign, they would find no instance of the settlement of the civil list being preceded by a committee of inquiry. It had been, on all such occasions, the practice of parliament to proceed to the consideration of the civil list without calling for any information. He was not then discussing whether this course, which had been followed by their ancestors, was right or wrong; all that he meant now to say, was, that such had been the practice. It ought, however, to be recollected, that their lordships had at present an advantage which had been possessed on no former occasion of this kind. They had obtained, not indeed with reference to a new reign, but to a settlement for the same illustrious person who was now on the throne, all necessary information on the details of the subject which was about to be brought under their consideration. The papers presented in 1816 would enable them to understand all the parts of the subject in a manner for which no opportunity had been afforded on any former occasion. When the question came to be discussed, it would therefore be perfectly competent to any noble lord to argue, on reference to the recorded information, that there ought to be a difference between the settlement for the new reign and that which had been made in 1816. If the noble marquis referred to that settlement, he would find that every thing had been done with respect
9089The Earl of Liverpool
91 wished that his noble friend had given notice of a motion on the subject of his question. He would have preferred that to the present motion; and if the question should be brought forward, he would vote for the appointment of a committee. It was true that the state of the civil list had been taken into consideration in 1816; but then it came before parliament in the shape of a vested interest. It was not a question of a settlement for the commencement of a reign, but for a regent, who administered the government in behalf of his majesty. With regard to the separation of the accounts, nothing could more strongly show the necessity of that separation, than the confusion which arose from some payments being charged, partly on the civil list and partly on other funds. The speaker of the House of Commons, for instance, received one half of the salary from the civil list, and the other half from the consolidated fund. He thought with his noble friend, that this separation was necessary for the proper dignity of the Crown; but inquiry into every branch of the question was peculiarly necessary at a time when the country was experiencing the deepest distress, and more especially when it was proposed that their lordships should renew the settlement of 1816—a period of most lavish expenditure, of great depreciation in the currency, and consequent high price. It would not be doing justice to the country to take the arrangement of that period as a rule for the expenditure of the civil list without inquiry. Among the heads which ought certainly to be separated from the civil list was the charge for allowances to foreign ambassadors, to which his noble friend had referred. The arrangement should be such as to create an inducement to economy on the part of the Crown. Were this done, the Crown, when too lavish under one head, would be obliged to economize under another. This, however, was not to be expected
91Lord King
 rose to move for a committee to take into consideration the state of the Insolvent Debtors laws in England. It being understood to be the wish of their lordships, that such a committee should be appointed, he thought it unnecessary to trouble the House with any observations upon the subject. In consequence of an unfortunate omission in the act of last session for continuing the expiring laws, the operations of the Insolvent act had been suspended, and the effect had been the filling of the prisons of the metropolis to an extent frightful to contemplate, and producing an imminent danger of infectious diseases. If to avoid this: evil it should; be thought expedient that the debtor, I through misfortune and not fraud, should not be liable to the imprisonment to which he was now subjected; it would of course be considered just, that the creditor should have additional means afforded him of making the property of the debtor available, as a security, instead of that which he now had upon his person. It was chiefly to this point that he intended to call the attention of the committee. His lordship moved for the appointment of a committee, which was ordered.Lord Auckland
318317316315mandamusquare impedit,mandamusquare impedit?314313312nilla extra ecclesiam salus.311310309308ex parte;l.307306 to present to their lordships a petition from the Rev. Pike Jones, curate of North Boney in the county of Devon. Before entering on the principal subject to which he had to call their lordships attention, he felt it necessary to say a few words on two other points connected therewith. The first related to the time at which the petition in question was brought before their lordships; the second to the mode of redress adopted by the petitioner. With respect to the first their lordships might, unless some explanation were offered, justly inquire why they were now, for the first time, called on to consider and afford relief for an injury alleged to be committed a considerable time since. The transaction to which the petition related took place in September last; and he felt it due to the petitioner, as well as to himself, to account for the delay of which he might otherwise be accused. The fact was, that in November the petition was put into the hands of a noble lord, whose love of liberty and the constitution was only equalled by the ability and eloquence he displayed in their support—he meant his noble friend earl Grey. Before some inquiries which were considered indispensable were complete, that noble lord's indisposition unfortunately took place. The business was then referred to him (lord Holland), but the short duration of the session, and he having been also subject to indisposition, rendered it impossible to bring the subject sooner before their lordships. He stated these things merely that the delay might be accounted for, and that the time at which the petition was presented might not operate to the prejudice of the petitioner. As to the second point the petitioner was driven to bring his case under the consideration of the House, because he had understood from persons well-informed on the subject that he had no remedy at law. With respect to the course he was about to pursue, he confessed it would certainly have been more consistent with the usual practice if he had merely introduced it, moved that it be laid on the table, and afterwards have founded some motion on it. But he
318317316315mandamusquare impedit,mandamusquare impedit?314313312nilla extra ecclesiam salus.311310309308ex parte;l.307306Lord Hollandrose
320319 said, he should not enter into the detailed part of the noble lord's speech, as he felt himself only called upon to enter into the allegations of the petition as they referred personally to himself. It was unpleasant for him to occupy their lordships attention as he must do, but he trusted they would afford him that indulgence which they were always pleased to bestow upon any one who had never before addressed them. He admitted the facts of the ordination, and the calling of the public meeting, though he was surprised to hear it stated, that he had refused to make any inquiry into the case. He could not, however, but animadvert on the allegation of the petitioner countenanced by the noble mover, that he {the bishop of Exeter) had refused to countersign the certificate, because the petitioner had made a speech at a county meeting in favour of additional privileges to the Roman Catholics. This he (the rev. prelate) unequivocally denied. The circumstances of the case were the following:—The petitioner having, as stated in his petition, been presented to two livings, which by the by, were only to be held for seven years, applied to him to countersign his certificate, of character. This practice of applying to the diocesan for such signature was very ancient and he believed never departed from. When the petitioner applied, and presented his certificate, he (the bishop of Exeter) had some conversation with him. He told him that he knew his opinions, respecting the Catholic question; and that he believed them to be sincere; their opinions differed widely on that subject; but he desired him particularly to understand that this difference had nothing to do with the refusal to sign his certificate. At the same time he expressed a hope that he might meet with the same indulgence from him, which he was certainly most willing to extend towards him. And here he could not avoid alluding to that part of the noble lord's speech, in which he supposed that the line of conduct which he felt it his duty to adopt would have the effect of preventing the clergy from exercising their
320319The Bishop of Exeter
322 who spoke in
322The Lord Chancellor
325324323 wished their lordships to consider this question, not as one of a personal nature, but as involving a principle of great and general importance. It was with much pain, that he had heard a question of so great practical importance passed over in so superficial a manner, and the speech of his noble friend (lord Holland) answered in the manner it had been by the learned prelate who was the object of the present motion. The learned prelate had assigned no reason for having refused to countersign the testimonials of the petitioner, and for having consequently destroyed his character, ruined his fortune, and blasted his hopes of professional honour and preferment. The right rev. prelate had moreover told them what he thought no man would have dared tell their lordships, that
325324323The Earl of Carnarvon
328327l.l.l.l.326 said, that after what their lordships had heard and in the absence of any explanation of his extraordinary conduct, as stated by the learned prelate himself, he thought that no doubt could remain on their minds as to the necessity of some farther investigation. He would briefly call the attention of the House to-the authority claimed by the learned prelate over the clergy of his diocese, and to the manner in which he had exercised that jurisdiction. The learned prelate contended that he was authorised to receive accounts respecting an individual within his jurisdiction, not from persons residing in the same quarter with that individual, nor respecting the manner in which he discharged his professional duties, but from persons in distant parts, and relative to matters of fact and words, said to be used, perhaps inadvertently, by that individual; and, on this testimony, collected from persons not acquainted with the general habits of the individual in question, and not impeaching his general conduct or his moral character, the learned prelate thought himself warranted to inflict a punishment, which must inevitably be attended with ruin of character and fortune. Persons in the exalted situation of the right rev. prelate might overlook all views of further promotion [Hear, hear!]; for they were to suppose that he, as a bishop, did not look for or expect further church prefer-
328327l.l.l.l.326The Marquis of Lansdowne
 (Dr. Van Mildert) said, that giving credit to the feelings of the noble lords opposite upon this subject, he could not yet be insensible to the arduous task of those who had the care and government of ecclesiastical districts. From all he had heard, he did not think that any case of misgovernment was made out against the right rev. prelate. What he had done appeared to him to be only in the strict discharge of his duty. He complained that little attention had been paid either to the feelings of the right rev. prelate, or to the painful nature of the duty he had to perform. With respect to the alleged opinions of the clergy on the subject alluded to, he had passed through all ranks, and he thought it a gross libel to say that nine-tenths of the clergy did not believe the Athanasian creed, although they signed the articles. The right rev. prelate might inadvertently or unwittingly countersign testimonials; but if before he had so done, any circumstances came to his knowledge respecting the character or opinions of the individual, he was bound to act upon them [The conclusion of the right rev. I prelate's speech was wholly inaudible below the bar].The Bishop of Landaff
 in explanation, stated, that he had not charged the right rev. prelate with a disbelief of the damnatory articles of the Athanasian creed; but the right rev. prelate had not himself expressed any opinion on the subject. Another right rev, prelate had, in his writings, thrown more than a doubt on the necessity of their belief. Indeed he (lord Carnarvon) had never heard any prelate say, that he believed them; and all that he should add was, that they who did believe them could not be Christians.The Earl of Carnarvon,
 was proceeding, we suppose, to comment upon what had fallen from the noble earl, when.The Bishop of Exeter
329 rose to order. His lordship observed, that, according to the standing rules and constant practice of their lordships, if any noble lord, in explanation, disavowed particular words, no noble lord had a right afterwards to impute those words to him. The question;
329Lord Holland
321 gave credit to the right reverend lord for the purity of his intentions, though he thought his conduct in the present instance was properly brought under the view of the House. He had seen many testimonials, and never saw one differ from another, and contended that the testimonials were only required to be signed by those who knew the clergyman, and it was not necessary that the clergyman himself should be known to the diocesan. The manner in which those testimonials were conducted was familiar to all. He believed no one would contradict him, when he stated that they were of this kind. They generally ran in the following words:—"We the undersigned do testify that we personally know for the last three years, that we believe him to be a person of moral conduct, and that he does not maintain any doctrines contrary to those of the Church of England." What had fallen from the rev. prelate was correct, that the testimonial was not to the effect of giving the person in whose favour it was signed general credit, but it went to that credit which ought to entitle him to that presentation he sought. It frequently happened that a clergyman was promoted, who did not know three clergymen in the diocese. A son of his had been in that situation, but the signature of one being procured, the archbishop of Canterbury signified that he was worthy of credit; the bishop of Chichester did the same, though they knew nothing of his
321Lord Erskine
389 rose to present a petition from the merchants and manufacturers of Birmingham, and observed, that its object was to induce their lordships to inquire into the distress of which the petitioners complained, and with which they were most grievously afflicted. The petitioners were, highly respectable persons, who would not come forward with frivolous complaints. They did not speak the language of unmanly despondency, but, conscious that the trade and manufactures of the country were in a state of great depression, they were anxious to see them restored to their wonted prosperity and vigour; or, if there existed any obstruction to that restoration, that its cause should be ascertained. Although he did not expect that any such inquiry would remedy the distress of which the petitioners complained, he thought the wish they expressed deserved the serious attention of their lordships. This petition spoke the language of a considerable portion of the manufacturing interest of the country; and it appeared to him that it would be but showing a fair concession to the opinion of such persons, and a just sympathy with the existing distress, if their lordships went into an inquiry, even though they should expect no advantageous result from it, and though they believed the evil to be one which admitted of no parliamentary remedy.
389Lord Calthorpe
 before he offered any observations on the subject of the petition, wished to ask the noble lord opposite, whether it was his intention to propose to refer it to a committee, or to propose any other mode of inquiry into the distress to which it referred?The Marquis of Lansdowne,
390 said, he had no objection to answer the question of the noble marquis. His noble friend had alluded to the supposed intention of instituting an inquiry in another place, and it might be a question whether a simultaneous inquiry on another branch of the evil complained of would be advisable. To such a proceeding, with proper limitations, he could have no objection; and were a motion of that nature made by the noble marquis, or any other of the noble lords on that side of the House, he should not oppose it, but would take the opportunity of stating what his view and that of his majesty's government on the subject was. Thus far he was desirous to go to satisfy the public anxiety. No advantage, he was convinced, could be gained from a general investigation, and he was most desirous that no misconception should take place on the subject. While he stated this much, he must at the same time observe, that he did not intend to make any proposition on the part of the executive government. He did not think that the executive government ought to come down and propose to institute an inquiry on a subject of this kind, unless they were prepared with a cure, or distinctly saw some remedy which it would be in the power of parliament to apply. As he had said, however, he would make no objection to any inquiry which might
390The Earl of Liverpool
391 concurred in what had been said respecting the petition, which he regarded as fully meriting the character of the noble lord who presented it and the noble earl opposite had given it. In suitable language it stated the situation of the country and of the petitioners; it did not attempt to point out any remedy, but called upon their lordships to consider the subject. To such an appeal he was confident their lordships would listen. He had hoped that the noble earl opposite would have thought proper to recommend the instituting, either in or out of that House, such an inquiry as might lead at least to an explanation of the causes of the present distress; and, if no immediate remedy could be applied, to show the grounds on which it would be necessary that the evil the country was now suffering ought to be longer endured. Being satisfied that no such inquiry could be usefully instituted, without the concurrence of the executive government with the two Houses of Parliament, he was most desirous that the subject should be taken up by his majesty's ministers; but having ascertained that neither the noble earl opposite, nor any of his colleagues, entertained any such intention, and understanding also that the noble lord who presented the petition did not mean himself to call for any farther proceeding, he should certainly consider it his duty to submit to their lordships a motion for instituting an inquiry; but he could not think it advisable to propose such an inquiry upon that extensive and complicated scale which an investigation of the situation of the country in all the branches of its distress would require. He was satisfied that the inquiry
391The Marquis of Lansdowne
 declared, that to the noble marquis's motion, limited as he meant to propose it, he had no objection. When the proposition for appointing a committee should be made, he would state his view of the subject, but certainly not with any intention of opposing it. What it might then be proper to do would be a subject for future consideration. In the mean time, he should not object to the petition being referred to a committee.The Earl of Liverpool
 understood the motion proposed to be brought forward by the noble marquis to be limited to the manufacturing interest, but he hoped that an inquiry into the agricultural distress would not be neglected.Earl Grosvenor
 observed, that the notice applied only to foreign trade. He approved of the limitation of the inquiry; but as, in the observations be intended to make on the motion, he would take a general view of the state of our trade, it would be impossible for him to do so without entering into a consideration of the situation of the agriculture of the country. At the same time be was fully satisfied that there was no necessity for rendering the inquiry more extensive than the noble marquis proposed to make it. That noble lord had most properly limited his notice to a single object, and it would be for the consideration of the House whether they would afterwards go into any other inquiry.The Earl of Liverpool
 was aware that his motion would not prevent any noble lord from proposing to extend the powers of the committee, or to institute further investigations; but if any inquiries were to be instituted, he thought it most desirable that they should be limited to distinct points. He was afraid that, if their lordships embarked in a general investigation, a door would be opened for the admission of every theory, and that they would finally be able to come to no conclusion; whereas, by confining the inquiry to one branch of the existing distress, there was a chance of attaining to something like a practical result.The Marquis of Lansdowne
 thought the observations of his noble friend very proper. He was only anxious that it should not appear to the country that their lordships were disposed to devote their attention to the manufacturing or trading distress only.Earl Grosvenor
 thought it impossible for their lordships, with so many petitions on their table, to neglect taking notice of the agricultural distress; but what he chiefly rose for was, to implore their lordships not to enter into an investigation of the general state of the country. If they went to such an inquiry, the number of witnesses, and facts of all sorts, which would be brought forward, would only render an accurate conclusion impracticable, and open a door to fresh discussions and disputes. He therefore approved of the manner in which his noble friend had limited his motion; but he also thought with him that the executive government ought at the same time to search with activity for the means of applying a remedy to the distress. One of the greatest uses of parliament was the prosecution of distinct branches of inquiry of the nature of that to which the committee was proposed to be limited; but this did not relieve the executive government from the performance of their duty.The Earl of Lauderdale
 thought it would be better if no question respecting the distress of the agricultural interest were brought forward, for he did not conceive that any remedy could be applied to the evil. The petitions of the numerous individuals before the House deserved every consideration; but he was afraid a cure for their distress could not be easily found. He thought it his duty to take the earliest opportunity of stating his opinion on the subject.The Earl of Darnley
 was sorry that government appeared to have thrown the consideration of the distressed state of the country off their own shoulders, because he was convinced that any proposition on the subject would come with more prospect of success, from minister, than from the side of the House: on which he stood; and he hoped he might be allowed to say, that to do so would be nothing more than their duty. Could they possibly have a more important duty than that of attending to the distress of; the country? With all the details of that distress his majesty's ministers must of necessity be better acquainted than any other individuals in parliament. They must have before them facts, the knowledge of which no other persons could obtain. A proposition brought forward by them would be certain of having effect; while, from the side of the House on which he sat, it was almost sure of a negative.The Earl of Donoughmore
394 felt it impossible, after what had fallen from the noble earl who spoke last, not to trouble their lordships with a few words. He had not stood in the way of the discussion of the state of the country, for their lordships would recollect him to have stated, that when the proposition of the noble marquis should be brought, he would not confine himself to a silent vote in its support, but should on that day be prepared to enter into, not a limited discussion, but into the consideration of every subject connected with the motion. Here he would have wished that the matter had been allowed to rest; but the noble lord had supposed that, because his majesty's ministers did not come to parliament with a proposition on the part of the executive government, they neglected their duty. He agreed with the noble lord that it was their duty at all times, and
394The Earl of Liverpool
395 was far from proposing that agricultural distress should make a part of the inquiry about to be brought forward, and he was indeed far from supposing that any good could be done by the inquiry: that is, that any effectual remedy would be found by the committee. It was, however, proper that those who suffered so severely should have their prayer for inquiry satisfied. In his opinion, there was only one remedy for the public distress, and that was the application of the strictest economy to every part of the public expenditure; and he must say that,
395Earl Grosvenor
417416415414413412411410409408407406405404403402401400399398* See First Series, voK.41, p. 230.397396* From the original edition, printed, for J. Harding, St. James's-street. rose and said:—My lords;—In rising to submit to your lordships the motion of which I gave notice some days ago, I am influenced solely by a sense of public duty; and I am deeply impressed with the extreme importance of the subject to which I am anxious to call your attention, that of providing employment for the poor. In circumstances like the present, of extraordinary difficulty and danger, the consideration of this subject is perhaps of all others the most interesting and important, as we know that in almost every part of the country, the want of employment for the poor has produced severe distress; and as we knew also, that the discontent of those who suffer from that distress, has in some parts of the country assumed even the character of disaffection. The first and most urgent duty which your lordships had to discharge, was, to repress the machinations of the disaffected, when they tended to the subversion of that ancient and excellent constitution which has so long been the happiness and honour of this nation, and has so long secured its liberties and welfare. But your lordships have another duty to perform—a duty most important in itself, and of which the performance will be most beneficial to your country, and most honourable to yourselves; I mean the duty of inquiring, whence has arisen that calamitous situation of public affairs, which no man can contemplate without apprehension and alarm;—what have been the causes, and what might be the remedy, of that great and general distress which has produced such great and general discontent.417416415414413412411410409408407406405404403402401400399398* See First Series, voK.41, p. 230.397396* From the original edition, printed, for J. Harding, St. James's-street.Earl Stanhope*
422421420419418 did not intend to enter into any discussion of the various topics which his noble friend had introduced in the course of his able speech, because, if he did, he should be obliged to trespass on the patience of their lordships to an extent which they could hardly be expected to forgive, since a discussion of them would lead to an examination of the whole principles of political economy, and of the origin of agriculture, of manufactures and of commerce, not only in this, but in every other country. He was also the more inclined to defer the discussion of those topics, because another opportunity would shortly present itself, when it could be carried on with greater practical advantage than it could be carried on at the present moment. He should preface the few remarks which he was about to offer to their lordships by thanking his noble friend for the candid manner in which he had brought forward his present motion. His noble friend had pointed out the object which he wished to accomplish in the most clear and manly terms, and had explained most distinctly the views with which he intended to go into the proposed committee; and and yet, with the exception of the benevolent intentions entertained by his noble friend of benefiting the poor in the first place, and the country in the second, there was not a single position in his speech to which he was not prepared to give his most direct and unqualified disapprobation; for the propositions which his noble friend had maintained went to subvert the whole political economy of the country, and to make an entire change in the whole of its commercial relations. He had commenced his speech by laying down a most dangerous distinction between the manufacturing and the agricultural interests; and by stating that the policy of the British government, which,
422421420419418The Earl of Liverpool
 made a short reply, in which he complained that his noble friend had misunderstood him both on the subject of waste lands and on that of machinery. He regretted that the money spent in useless expeditions such as that to the North Pole, was not laid out in the erection of cottages; remonstrated against the rejection of his general motion, on the ground upon which his noble friend had objected to his specific plan; and declared that as his opinions on the subject were unchanged he should feel it his duty to enter them on the Journals.Earl Stanhope
393 differed in opinion with
393Lord Erskine
 presented a number of petitions from the occupiers of land in the county of Wilts. His noble friend must not expect him to be able to say whether Mr. Webbe Hall had any hand in these petitions. He could, however assert, that they came from persons of great respectability and the principal occupiers of land in the county. He had, nevertheless, the misfortune to differ with them, and when the subject should come to be discussed would consider it his duty to take a different view of it. The legislature had not the power of preventing the agricultural interest from sharing in the general distress which affected the country. He was, however, well assured, that those who had signed these petitions would only put their names to statements of the truth of which the were well convinced. To that extent, therefore, they called for their lordships attention, and he presented them to the House as the representations of a very respectable and numerous, and, he was afraid he must add a very distressed body of persons. Ordered to lie upon the table.The Marquis of Lansdown
l.l.526l.525524 rose to propose to their lordships the second reading of the bill for the support of his majesty's household, and of the honour and dignity of the crown of the united kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. Though he considered the subject of great importance, he did not think it necessary to trouble the House with more than a few words on this motion for the second reading of the bill. He should he as short as possible, reserving to himself the right of reply and explanation, if any objection should be made to the motion. In the conversation which lately occurred, in consequence of his being asked, whether he intended to propose any inquiry previous to the consideration of the civil list he stated two reasons for declining to take that course. The first was rather one of precedent than argument—namely, that he was not aware, of an inquiry of such a nature being instituted at the commencement of any Reign. He did not mean that parliament were precluded from doing what had not been done on former occasions, if a sufficient case were made out; but, in the present
l.l.526l.525524The Earl of Liverpool
529l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.528l.l.527 did not concur with the noble lord in the warm approbation he had bestowed on the bill before their lordships In his opinion, the subject of the civil list
529l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.528l.l.527Lord King
l.l.l.l. expressed his surprise at seeing that so large a civil list should be proposed for Ireland, considering the means of that country as compared with those of England, without producing a single item to prove its necessity. The civil list of England was 850,000l.l.l.l.The Earl of Darnley
530l.l. in explanation, stated, that the sum now fixed on for Ireland was exactly the same as it stood at the demise of his late majesty. That it was not more than the necessities of Ireland required, they had this proof, that no sum had ever been remitted to this country. They had also another fact in corroboration, which was this:—At the time that the civil list of Ireland was in debt, an act was passed, which rendered it compulsory upon the government not to grant any pension above 1,200530l.l.The Earl of Liverpool,
 found that the present petition resembled many others on the same subject already on the table. In fact, it was no wonder that they were all of the same nature, for they came all from the same shop. They were all, he believed, the manufacture of Mr. Webbe Hall, a gentleman who had been circulating pamphlets among the members of that and the other House of Parliament. He could not agree with that gentleman in the principles he laid down. He had supported the corn-bill, but could not support the doctrines now afloat. It had been proposed to indemnify landholders for tithes; as if every man who occupied ground did not previously know that he was to take it. burthened with tithes. He could not help being astonished that the person who had taken so active a part in setting the agricultural interest against the manufactures, should be rewarded by being made secretary of the board of agriculture. Many were of opinion that that board had never done much good, and he did not know any thing that could be expected from them capable of compensating such an appointment. Much had been said about economical reform, with which he did not agree; but if a motion for suppressing this board were to be brought forward, that was a question of economical reform which he should be very much inclined to support.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, he knew nothing of Mr. Webbe Hall, and could not see what that gentleman's opinion had to do with the petition.Lord ErsKine
d.s.s.522 presented a petition from certain occupiers of land in the county of Suffolk, complaining of the state of. Agricultural Distress. The noble lord began by observing, that the petitioners desired him to say that it was not their wish to encroach on the interests of any other class of persons. In his opinion, indeed, all the different classes of the country must thrive together, or not at all, and if any one class expected to gain an advantage by sacrificing the interests of others, they would find themselves grievously disappointed. The petitioners conceived this to be the principle which had been acted on in passing the corn bill. They did not call on parliament to add any thing to their present protection, but they: contended that they were deprived of the advantage which parliament intended to give them by the manner in which the average was struck. They merely wished that some data more fixed and certain; might be adopted for establishing the average, but they by no means desired
d.s.s.522Lord Erskine
 presented a petition from certain dealers in and venders of newspapers, against the circulation of Sunday papers. His lordship stated that it was in contemplation to bring forward a bill for the purpose of preventing the publication of newspapers en a Sunday, such publication not only being inimical to the interests of religion and morality, but doctrines of a dangerous or seditious nature being put forth in many of the Sunday newspapers.Lord Kenyon
 declared his intention, if any such bill was presented, of opposing it in every stage of its progress. He was utterly at a loss to conceive upon what ground it was that the principles maintained by some of the Sunday newspapers was put forward as a reason for preventing their circulation. Were not the Sunday papers as amenable to the laws as other journals, if they published any thing improper; and would it not, therefore, be an odious attack upon the liberty of the press to prevent their circulation?Lord Holland
546 referred to a motion which he had formerly brought forward upon this subject in the House of Commons, and which motion had for its object to prevent the circulation of Sunday newspapers. He stated that he still
546Earl Grosvenor
 thought it right the House should be aware that the object sought by this petition, of preventing persons being employed in newspapers on a Sunday, would not be answered by preventing the circulation of Sunday newspapers; it applied rather to Monday newspapers; all that was requisite for making up a Sunday newspaper being done on the Saturday, whilst a Monday newspaper necessarily required the employment of the persons connected with it on a Sunday.The Earl of Lauderdale
565l.l.;564563562561560559l.l.s.l.l.558l.557556555554553552551"The strength he gains is from th' embrace he gives.""He, like the generous vine, supported lives;550549548547 rose, in pursuance of the notice he had given, to move for a committee to inquire into the means of improving and extending the foreign trade of the country. So much did he feel the importance and magnitude of the subject, that he apprehended no sense of duty, however great, would have been sufficient to induce him to undertake bringing it forward, had he not entertained a well-founded hope of experiencing every indulgence from the House. Under the circumstances, however, in which he thought it necessary to propose to their lordships the appointment of a committee, he did not suppose that it could be necessary for him to say much to justify himself for having assumed that task. He certainly felt most strongly the Weight of the undertaking, and would have been glad to have seen it in the hands of any noble lord more able to do justice to it. Undoubtedly such a question would have been brought forward with much more effect by the members of his majesty's government, from the superior information which they of course possessed; but that course having been declined, he felt it an imperative duty, however incompetent to the task, to call their lordships attention to the subject, interesting and important as it was at all times, but more especially so at the present moment, when the best interests of the country Were so materially involved in the result. Several years had now passed away since the pressure of public distress engaged the attention of every friend to humanity and the country. That the noble lords opposite omitted to propose any measure of
565l.l.;564563562561560559l.l.s.l.l.558l.557556555554553552551"The strength he gains is from th' embrace he gives.""He, like the generous vine, supported lives;550549548547The Marquis of Lansdowne
594593592591l.l.l.l.:l.590589588entrepôt587586585584583s.l.s.l.582581maximum.minimum;580579578577576575574l.,573l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.572l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.571l.l.,570569568567566** rose and said:
594593592591l.l.l.l.:l.590589588entrepôt587586585584583s.l.s.l.582581maximum.minimum;580579578577576575574l.,573l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.572l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.571l.l.,570569568567566**The Earl of Liverpool*
596595 began by complimenting the noble earl and the noble marquis on the able manner in which they had conducted this important discussion. He concurred in a great deal of what had fallen from both, but especially in what had been said by the noble earl on the subject of the corn laws: nothing could be more prejudicial to the agricultural interest than the annual revival and agitation of that question. His principal reason, however, for rising at present was, because, in some respects, he took a more consolitary view of the situation of the country than either of the noble lords—than even the noble earl, who had given, from authentic documents, such a cheering prospect of the trade of the kingdom, by which, it was evident that that trade had been diminished much less than was generally conceived. When he reflected on the causes operating to produce distress—on the exertions already made to repel the evil—and the small decrease of demand, he could not but entertain a sanguine hope that the deficiency would be supplied through the inquiries of the proposed committee. The noble earl had said, in one part of his speech, that but for the paper currency the war could not have been continued: perhaps not; and perhaps the evil of discontinuance would not have been so great as the noble earl imagined: certain it was, that no other human invention could, in the whole, have produced so much calamity as a paper currency. On this subject he could talk with the noble earl with considerable freedom, because, after the report of last year, in which the noble earl had heartily concurred, it was evident that they thought alike. He begged, therefore, to call the notice of the noble earl to a few figures which indisputably showed the state to which the paper currency had reduced the country; they were contained in some tables, printed in the year 1813, reaching a second edition soon afterwards, and uncontradicted from that time to the present. His lordship here detailed some of the items in these tables, arriving at the conclusion that, in consequence of a paper currency, the nation was now called upon to pay ten millions more annually than if
596595The Earl of Lauderdale
599598597 perfectly concurred with his noble friend who made the present motion, that an extension of our foreign trade would be highly advantageous both to our agriculture and to our manufactures. He expressed the great satisfaction which he felt at having heard
599598597Lord Ellenborough
 expressed the great satisfaction which he felt at the proceedings of that evening, and at the profound as well as candid manner in which the question had been treated, and the eloquent and statesman-like developement which had been made of the circumstances of the country. There were few circumstances which would tend more to persuade the people that they lived under a paternal government, than the proceedings of that night. As to the Corn bill, he was glad to find it proved that one of the parts of it that had been objected to, the mode of taking averages, contained in itself the principle of self-correction. The principles of freedom of trade, which be was happy to see so fully recognized, were of the utmost consequence; for though, in the present circumstances of the country, a free trade was unattainable, yet their task hereafter was to approximate to it. Considering the prejudices and interests which were opposed to the recognition of that principle, it was no small indication of the firmness and liberality of his majesty's ministers to have so fully conceded it.Lord Calthorpe
l.631630 agreed in opinion with the noble lord, that parliament were in the year 1816 precluded from the consideration of the droits of the Admiralty, or any other casual revenue of the Crown. He was one who, on questions relative to the civil list, would carry as high the authority of parliament as most persons; but he considered it to be a settled principle, that when once a bill providing for the civil list was passed, parliament could
l.631630The Earl of Liverpool
632 wished that the noble earl had agreed to the amendment. The noble earl had said, that the Admiralty droits produced nothing in peace, but peace might not last long. Nothing could more contribute to the true dignity of the Crown than placing this fund under the control of parliament. Such an arrangement could be no loss to the Crown. The spirit of the constitution inculcated a vigilant jealousy in pecuniary matters. The Crown had the power of making war—parliament of refusing the supplies. But the power of withholding the supplies would be a mere nullity, if the Crown could obtain money by captures. He wished to sec this practice abolished, and that it should be made the interest of a prince to go to war in the manner of a man of honour, and not like a pirate for his emolument. He did not say that this was done, but the principle on which this fund stood had that tendency, by the temptation it held out. The only object
632Lord Ellenborough
l.629l. rose to move an amendment on the last clause, relative to the droits of the admiralty, and casual duties; and which he had, in consideration of the convenience of the House, refrained from proposing on the report. It was not his present purpose to inquire into the propriety of the grant made by the bill, or to consider whether parliament was bound by what had taken place in 1816. Neither would he discuss the question relative to the comparison of the prices of that period and the present, though he certainly thought such a comparison just, as the difference of the prices was considerable. But it was his intention to bring under their lordships consideration a subject which did not come within the scope of the inquiry of the committee of 1816, as the fund to which he referred was not then directly under the control of parliament. Had such a committee been appointed on the present occasion, they would have been bound to reduce the amount granted to the civil list, or to direct the particular application of the produce of the fund which were the object of the last clause, and one of which, the Admiralty droits, produced before the end of last war 500,000l.629l.Lord Dacre
744§l.,l.l.l.,l.743s., rose to introduce a bill for the recovery of small debts. In the last parliament a great number of petitions had been presented on this subject, and it was generally expected that some measure would be founded upon them. This expectation, he thought, ought to be realized as soon as possible. A good many years ago it had occurred to him to introduce a bill for the purpose of facilitating the recovery of small debts; but, from certain circumstances, no progress was then made in the measure. In framing the bill he was about to submit to their lordships, he had considered it advantageous that the persons performing the duties of judges and juries should not be confounded; that the juries should be of a limited number; and that the process of recovery should be plain and simple, and accompanied with as little expense as possible. The sum recoverable at present in the county courts did not exceed 40744§l.,l.l.l.,l.743s.,Lord Redesdale
l.,799 wished to ask the noble lord opposite whether his majesty's government had
l.,799The Marquis of Lansdowne
 was in some measure apprized of the unfortunate circumstances to which the noble marquis had alluded, but he had as yet received no official communication on the subject. He was, therefore, not prepared to say what it might be thought advisable to do, or whether his majesty's government would think fit to interfere in the case.The Earl of Liverpool
 expressed his regret at the distress to which the question of his noble friend referred, but was at the same time of opinion, that no precedent more fatal in political economy could be set than that of the interference of government in the credit of the country by holding out assistance to individuals. The Bank of England had, in cases of commercial distress, sometimes interfered, because it was its interest to support commercial credit, as far as support could with propriety be given by that establishment. Let the Bank of Ireland therefore imitate the conduct of the Bank of England, and act in the business on commercial principles.The Earl of Lauderdale
800 assured his noble friend that he was far from calling for the direct interference of his majesty's government. All that he meant to suggest was, that in case the Bank of Ireland should be desirous to do that which its own interest dictated, namely, to supply the vacuum in the circulation occasioned by the failures to which he had alluded, government would not withhold such assistance as might be necessary to facilitate the operations of the Bank. The necessity of the case was great, as at present, where the failures had taken place, there
800The Marquis of Lansdowne
 presented a Message from the King, stating the arrival of the Queen, and announcing that his majesty had thought it right to communicate to the House certain Papers respecting the conduct of the Queen since her Majesty quitted this country, to which the king desired the earliest attention of the House. The message was read by the lord chancellor, and also by the clerk at the table.The Earl of Liverpool
 then laid upon the table a green bag, sealed, and apparently filled with papers, and said:—My lords, I have now the honour of laying upon the table, by the king's command, the Papers referred to in his majesty's most gracious message. It it my intention to-morrow to move an address to his majesty, which, without pledging the House in any manner to any opinion, as to the contents of the message, will be merely an address, returning the thanks of the House to his majesty for his most gracious communication, and declaring our readiness to take into our serious consideration the Papers communicated by his majesty's command. It is also my intention to move to-morrow to refer the papers thus communicated to a secret committee. In this course of proceeding his majesty's government have been guided by precedent, as far as precedent (and that of a very old date) can avail, it being well-known that there is no precent bearing directly upon the present case. It will be for the secret committee to point out whether any and what proceeding is fit to be adopted in consequence of the information afforded by the papers laid before them. I have now only to move that the lords be summoned to attend the service of this House to-morrow.—Ordered.The Earl of Liverpool
 wished to know with what measure his majesty's government meant to propose the examination of the papers laid on the table should be followed up, before the House was pledged to any opinion on the subject.Lord Holland
887 observed, that the address he intended to move would, as he had stated yesterday, pledge their
887The Earl of Liverpool
 now rose to make the second motion of which he had given notice, and which related to the course of proceeding. He said, he meant to propose to their lordships that a secret committee consisting of fifteen lords, should be appointed by ballot to examine the papers relative to the conduct of the queen, which he had laid on the table yesterday, and to report thereon. This he considered the most suitable course of proceeding, with reference to the delicacy of the case, the illustrious person to whom the papers related, or indeed to any person whatever who might be the object of such an inquiry. He was on the present occasion particularly desirous of saying as little as possible, and wished to reserve himself until he saw whether any of their lordships thought the course he proposed liable to objection. In that case, he would be ready to give any explanation which might appear necessary. He had yesterday stated, that the purpose for which he would propose to appoint the committee would be, to inquire whether any or what, further proceedings should take place on the papers submitted to their examination. This would be the object of their report. He had thought it necessary to state this yesterday, to guard against misunderstanding, and he thought it necessary to repeat it now. He trusted there was not a man in the House, or in the country, who would suppose him capable of proposing a mode of proceeding against any person, and least of all against the illustrious person who was the object of this measure, without allowing the fullest opportunity for defence. But the course now suggested, he was convinced, was the most proper in point of delicacy towards the illustrious person, and the best with respect to all the important interests connected with the case. Here he wished to leave the subject, being prepared, however, to give such explanation as might, in consequence of observations from any of their lordships, appear necessary. He concluded by moving the appointment of the committee.The Earl of Liverpool
891890889888 said, he had
891890889888The Marquis of Lansdowne
894893892 rose, in consequence of what had fallen from the noble marquis, to give such explanation as it was in his power to give on. the present occasion. He trusted that the answer he
894893892The Earl of Liverpool
897896895 observed, that a great part of the speech of the noble earl had gone to establish the principle, that if their lordships concurred in the appointment of the secret committee moved for, they would by that concurrence, convey the opinion that no judicial proceeding could be instituted before them on the application of the Commons House of Parliament. In this opinion he agreed; but his conviction of its justness constituted his objection to the course recommended. The noble earl opposite had given it as the opinion of many lawyers, that a queen could not be impeached of high treason for adultery committed with a foreigner; but. could he assure their lordships that this would be the opinion of the other House of Parliament, the grand inquest of the nation, with whom an impeachment might originate? All that their lordships knew was, that his majesty had sent to the other House a message, accompanied with papers containing matter of accusation against her majesty. When, then, their lordships heard that the queen-consort was accused, and that evidence had been transmitted to the Commons in support of that accusation, how could they be assured that
897896895Lord Holland
899898 said, that he never had had so painful a duty to discharge as the present. The difficulty arose partly front the connexion of the proceedings with an illustrious person, whose situation in the state commanded respect and reverence. But when he said this, he did not mean to insinuate that to the rank of the party belonged any greater title to justice than to the meanest subject. If a secret committee were to decide on the character or the interests of any individual, he would be the last man to agree to such an appointment. He would rather at once refer the papers to the House. But the appointment of a secret committee, while it could not be unjust in its decision, it not being allowed to decide, was designed to prevent injustice. The objection of his noble friend to the appointment of a committee did not appear to him well founded. There might be judicial proceedings at the instance of the Commons, after the com-
899898The Lord Chancellor
 explained He had said that it was impossible for the House to be assured that the Commons would not institute judicial proceedings, and therefore that their lordships, by appointing a committee and adopting its report, would be previously deciding on charges which would afterwards come before them for judgment. There were other crimes and misdemeanors besides high treason that might be brought before their lordships, and by appointing this committee they disqualified themselves for deciding on all. There was no trust of greater importance, and therefore, none more deserving to become the subject of public investigation, than the trust which appertained to the situation of the queen of England. Could the noble lord take upon himself to say, that it would not be competent to the House of Commons, with respect to any act which constituted a breach of that trust, to bring the illustrious person in question, not under a charge of treason, but of high misdemeanor, before their lordships? Might not that mode of proceeding appear to the House of Commons to be the most fitting and decorous; I and when the noble and learned lord com-pared the situation of the House to that of: a grand jury, did he not forget that a grand jury could never afterwards become the petty jury who tried and decided upon the merits of the cause?The Marquis of Lansdowne
901900 could not allow the question to be put without stating the nature of his opinion to the House, particularly as that opinion was at variance with the sentiments of individuals with whom he had long been in the habit of acting, and for whose motives and conduct he entertained the sincerest respect. Differing from those noble persons, he felt that he ought to distrust his own judgment, but he could not consent to give up his opinion. The noble lords
901900The Earl of Donoughmore
ex parte902 rose to explain. He said that the arguments which he had addressed to the House had been misunderstood both by the noble and learned lord upon the woolsack, and by the noble lord who had last spoken. The noble and learned lord had directed great part of his speech against that which had formed no part of his speech, or of the speech of his noble friend. The noble lord who had just sat down had spoken of the irritation of the public mind, and had expressed his disapprobation of the means by which that irritation had been excited. Certainly, he was much, mistaken if he had said any thing calculated to increase that irritation and if there were arts cmplo3'ed to raise it, of which he knew nothing and accused no one, he would say, that whether such means were taken either in parliament or out of it, either in writings or in conversations, he from his heart abhorred and abjured both the means and those who would resort to them [Hear, hear] He must be allowed to state, that, when he alluded to the irritation of the public mind he did not mean to urge that such irritation ought to induce the House to do right, as if it would have neglected to do right in case no such feverish sensibility had existed; but merely to contend that, where two modes of proceeding presented themselves, which hypothetically, might be considered as indifferent, and where a strong public feeling did exist, that in such a case it was equally the duty and the policy of men intrusted with the government of a people to select that course which, without defeating or disappointing justice, was most likely to remove both irritation and suspicion. He had been charged, as well as his noble friend with objecting to the severity of the present proceeding. He had not said that the present proceeding was more severe than any other. He had also
ex parte902Lord Holland
 wished that the explanation of his noble friend should be considered as applying equally to the observations which he himself had addressed to the House.The Marquis of Lansdowne
986 rose to propose the postponement of the order, as he saw no other noble lord disposed to interfere. Concurring as he did in the wisdom of the measure which their lordships had yesterday resolved to adopt, it might appear extraordinary that he should propose any thing calculated to prevent its being carried into effect. Indeed, considering the nature of the message which had been received from the throne—considering also what was due to the dignity of the illustrious parties, as well as to the propriety of their lordships proceedings—he had regarded the appointment of the committee the only fit course to be adopted. It was a proceeding to which their lordships were driven by the necessity of the case; but he understood that circumstances had arisen from which there was reason to hope that the very painful consequences which were to be anticipated from the measure their lordships had agreed to if it were to be proceeded in, might yet be averted. Under these circumstances, he entertained a confident expectation that their lordships would be
986Lord Kenyon
—My lords; with reference to what has been said by my noble friend, I think it necessary to state, that no circumstance has been communicated to me, nor have I any information to authorize me in holding out any prospect of conciliation. Far be it from me, however, to negative so desirable an object, which must be the wish of every man who at all considers the subject; but what I object to is, that nothing has been stated sufficient to induce this House to recede from its vote of last night, by not proceeding to the ballot. Let us proceed to the ballot, and then it will be perfectly consistent with the regularity of our proceedings to postpone the meeting of the committee for a few days, in order that as opportunity may be given for the possibility of conciliation, if such is the wish of the House. I should therefore propose, after the ballot has taken place, that the meeting of the committee should be postponed till Tuesday.The Earl of Liverpool
987 was not surprised to find that noble lords should, on reflection, call upon the House to undo to-day what it had done yesterday; but in whatever light the proposition might appear, he was favourable to the proposed delay. He was ready to support the
987The Marquis of Lansdowne
 noticed what had been said by the marquis of Lansdowne, in the commencement of his speech, respecting: the undoing today what had been done yesterday—an expression which appeared to give much satisfaction to a noble lord neat him ford Holland had smiled when the noble marquis made the observation referred to]. He was one of those who had approved the course adopted yesterday, but he did not on that account conceive that there was any impropriety in now proposing to suspend the proceeding.Lord Kenyon
 explained, that he had no intention of applying what he had said to the conduct of the noble baron in particular.The Marquis of Lansdowne
 then observed that, whether it should be their lordships pleasure to adopt his motion or; not, he had at least the satisfaction of having drawn from the noble earl an acquiescence in the propriety of delay. What the noble earl, however, proposed was, to appoint the committee, but to allow nothing to be done till Tuesday. He thought it would be a better way to postpone the consideration of the subject altogether while the slightest hope of any conciliatory arrangement existed. As long as any hope could be indulged, he should not think that he did his duty if he did not endeavour to gain time; and as the best and most consistent mode of obtaining that object was, in his opinion, to suspend the proceeding in its present state, he should persist in his motion, and hoped that their lordships would come with him to the conclusion that the order for appointing the committee ought to be postponed to Monday.Lord Kenyon
 was as anxious to agree to any course which might have a conciliatory effect as the noble baron or his noble friend could be, but he knew of nothing out of that House that ought to be a rule for what it was proper for their lordships to do. He made this observation because the debate had been proceeding in a most disorderly manner. He had never before, in the course of his experience, heard it assigned as a reason for their lordships not proceeding in a measure which they had agreed to adopt, that the other House of Parliament had chosen to decide otherwise. The House had acted on its own judgment; and if delay was thought advisable, the only question which now arose was, which of the modes suggested was most consistent with the dignity of the House? He might join his noble friend in his triumph at the hope of their lordships being compelled to retrace their steps, but it was his duty to consider what was now fittest to be done, and he did not hesitate to say that the mode proposed by the noble earl opposite was that which appeared to him the best.The Earl of Lauderdale
991990989 could not agree with the view of the question which had been taken by his noble friend who had just sat down. In the mean time, however, he begged to assure the noble baron who had noticed the expression of his countenance, that that expression was accompanied by of feeling of disapprobation, of what the noble baron proposed. On the contrary
991990989Lord Holland
 could not allow; the speech of the noble lord to pass without observation. The proceeding of yesterday had nothing to do with the delay now proposed. It was not said that their lordships should wait for a contemporaneous proceeding of the other House, but the proposition was made with the knowledge that the two Houses were to proceed contemporaneously. The House, however, would act on its own view of the case. He had not said that all such measures should be contemporaneous in both Houses; but he still maintained the opinion he had given, that if the present case was to be proceeded in at all, the proper way was by that, and the other House of parliament entering on the measure at the same time. The postponement to Tuesday next was no abandonment of what had already been done, and might have been proposed by any noble lord without reference to what had occurred in another place. He made the proposition without reference to any facts or circumstances which had come to his knowledge. If from the nature of the case, any good result might arise from the delay, an opportunity was afforded for that advantage; but there was nothing in the proposition of delay to impeach the propriety of the proceeding of yesterday.The Earl of Liverpool
992 was for the postponement of the ballot, and thought the adoption of the noble baron's motion the course which common sense dictated. What was the only ground for delay? It was obviously the possibility that some circumstances might arise which would render it unnecessary to form any committee on the case. The noble earl's rather clumsy way of obtaining delay by postponing the sitting of the committee: to Tuesday was virtually the same as the motion of the noble baron. He could not fix Monday for the meeting of the committee, because, if an arrangement should take place after to-morrow, the House would not have the opportunity of preventing the committee from proceeding to the investigation of the papers on the day on which they would be ordered to sit. When no advantage was gained by the noble earl's mode, he thought it would be more becoming in their lordships to
992The Earl of Carnarvon
 supported the motion of the noble baron, by the adoption of which he thought their lordships would best consult the dignity of the HouseThe Earl of Darnley
996995 said, he would endeavour to bring back the attention^ of their lordships to the true state of the business, and he was not desirous to notice that part of the speech of his noble friend, which chiefly appeared to him to be an argument growing out of the debate that passed yesterday, farther than to set him right with respect to what had taken place because he conceived there was not one word which he then heard uttered on this subject that conveyed any wish either to refuse such proceedings as it might be deemed fit to adopt at a proper time, and after due consideration, or to deprive his majesty, or any other individual, of any relief or remedy that might be devised when the case was investigated. The argument, this he understood it yesterday, was, to persuade their lordships not to place themselves, by any act, in a situation that must embarrass them, if a judicial proceeding were begun by the other House of Parliament. They were called on, not to adopt any proceeding that might seem to imply the prejudging of a case with respect to which they were to be the ultimate judges; and, therefore, it was argued, that they ought not to proceed with any examination, or to offer any opinion, either of which was likely to
996995The Earl of Rosslyn
 saw little difference in the two modes that were proposed. It was of little matter, with respect to the dignity and consistency of their proceedings, whether they adjourned the appointment of the committee, or, having appointed it, adjourned its proceedings. He, however, wished that the committee should now be balloted for, and that it should be directed to meet on Saturday. He proposed this course, because he was convinced that, if there was any chance of a successful arrangement, it could only be obtained by their lordships showing an absolute determination to proceed in the course agreed to yesterday, if between this day and that which he had mentioned, an amicable adjustment was not effected. It was impossible that the negotiation could be drawn out to any great length and he was sure that it would be shortened by the means which he now pointed out. In his opinion a satisfactory arrangement could only be obtained by proceeding in that manner.Lord Ellenborough
998997 said, so many allusions had been made to what had passed in another place, that it almost looked as if the members had been transposed from the one House to the other. In the place to which he alluded, they thought they had not sufficient reason to proceed, and they adjourned the debate; but undoubtedly that was no reason that should induce their lordships to stay the proceedings. This was not all, however; the subject was now treated as if their lordships had also adjourned the debate yesterday, for they had heard no arguments from his noble friends this evening that had not been urged in the course of their speeches last night. And why were they called on to pause? Truly, because in the other House of Parliament the debate had been adjourned. What reason had been laid before them to alter the course of their proceedings, which had been so solemnly decided upon last night—decided too by so great a majority, that those who differed in opinion from that majority did not think it proper to call for a division? What sort of argument was advanced, in order I to induce them to depart from the proceeding originally contemplated? He had
998997The Earl of Donoughmore
999 said, that as a reproach had been cast against his noble friend near him and himself, on account of what had fallen from them, he felt himself called on to say that the accusation was not well founded. He, in common with the rest of their lordships, had a right, he conceived, to give an opinion on every part of these proceedings. Neither he nor his noble friend had expressed any desire to thwart the proceedings which had taken place in the House last night. It would be recollected, that he had not proposed to change that proceeding, which could not now in fact be recalled. He had risen to express an opinion in favour of the proposition of the noble baron opposite, who suggested the propriety of suspending the ballot till Monday. The noble earl opposite wished also that the proceeding should be suspended, but in another way. Nothing was, however, said by any noble lord, as to the propriety of altering the course which had been marked out last night. What he had said referred entirely to the comparative benefit that was likely to be derived from one of the modes proposed by the noble lords opposite, both of whom—he would not say, on account of what occurred in another House last night, lest he might incur the reproach of his noble friend who spoke last—seemed to have been impressed at the same moment with the necessity of suspending that course of proceeding on which, last night, their lordships had determined to act. What he had argued (and after what he had heard, his opinion was greatly strengthened, since the same feeling was expressed by the noble baron and the noble earl, and appeared to be participated in by the whole House) was, that the proceeding should be suspended. It was more consistent, he conceived, with true dignity, to express that feeling on the first occasion, instead of making believe, by the appointment of a committee, that they were determined to go OD, although circumstances might occur which might call on them to undo all that had previously been done. There was more dignity, he conceived, in taking the best means that occurred to them to prevent this committee, if possible, from sitting at all, than to hurry on the proceeding without making such an effort. He lamented that he
999The Marquis of Lansdowne
994993 said;—My lords; as my noble friend below me informs me that he shall divide the House upon the question, I must trouble your lordships, contrary to my intention, with a very tow words. If the ballot had been only objected to, both yesterday and to-day, on the ground that delay was adviseable, I should consider it as a matter of the most perfect indifference whether we delayed ballotting, or the sitting of the committee to be appointed; but the ballot was resisted, and with great ability and eloquence, on the ground that the proceeding under it would be highly unconstitutional—a proposition to which I can by no means agree. It has been stated, that if we proceed contemporaneously with the House of Commons we shall be placed in a situation which would disqualify us from trying an impeachment, if the Commons should impeach. But in the case before us there can be no reason to presume that such proceeding will take place. The case is shortly this:—evil reports respecting the conduct of the queen beyond the seas (which I sincerely hope, on investigation, will prove groundless) called upon his majesty nevertheless to notice them. The king, by his accession, does not forfeit the rights of a private man, though his situation is changed. He cannot proceed for such a private wrong, like a private man, but as his consort is a public person, representing the nation as well as himself, he must proceed through the public councils; and in a case of great and painful necessity he has applied to both Houses of Parliament for advice. That act of his majesty negatives every idea of an impeachment, and shows that what he seeks is a legislative inquiry, and an act of parliament, if unfortunately it should be necessary; because we ought not to presume that the king asks us to put ourselves in a situation disqualifying us from what might afterwards be our duty, which I agree would be the case if we were now to examine the evidence,
994993Lord Erskine
1008 rose to solicit their lordships attention to a notice which he wished to give for Monday next. It was his intention on that day to introduce a bill for the repeal of the 12th of George 3rd, commonly called the Royal Marriage act. He was aware that it was very irregular, in the mere notice of a motion, for him to state the reasons which induced him to bring forward the subject; but he hoped their lordships would indulge him while he briefly explained the grounds on which he thought it necessary to name so early a day as Monday for the consideration of so important a subject He chose that day because, exclusively of the many and forcible general reasons which induced him to wish to see that act expunged from the Statute-book, he hoped it might now be possible, that when the subject came to be considered in all its bearings, particularly with reference to the unfortunate difficulty in which the royal family was placed, it might suggest, to those better qualified than he was for such a task, some means by which a legislative measure divested of all penalties, and calculated to remove that difficulty, could be adopted, If such a proceeding should appear practicable, their lordships would be spared the necessity of directing the committee they had appointed to proceed with its painful duty on Tuesday, because, in the view he had taken of the subject, if a measure of the kind he had alluded to could be adopted, it would be one capable of relieving two illustrious persons from the painful situation in which they are placed, and would do so without any disparagement to the character or reputation of either. He therefore intended to bring the question under their lordships consideration next Monday. But in the mean time, should any thing occur which might render the necessity of his motion for the repeal of the Marriage act less pressing, he would think it right to post pone any deliberation upon it until another occasion. He wished further to ob; serve, that in adopting this course of proceeding he acted entirely on his own opinion. He would not say that he took that step altogether without the knowledge of others, because the habits of his life led him to communicate all he did to his friends; but he had acted without the
1008Lord Holland
 reminded their lordships of the order which had been made on Thursday, that the Secret Committee should not meet until to-morrow. He had made the motion for that order, not on any specific ground which could induce him to think it necessary, but upon hopes which appeared to be entertained by their lordships. Since that period communications and explanations had taken place on the subject. He was not prepared to say what might be the result of these communications and explanations, but the state of the business was certainly such as to make a farther adjournment of the meeting of the committee desirable. He, therefore, intended to propose that the day of meeting should be fixed for Saturday next. Before he sat down he thought it necessary to observe, that a fabricated account of the correspondence on this subject had appeared, in which the documents were most scandalously falsified, and converted into libels. It was an aggravation of this conduct that it must have been done by some persons who had seen the originals, and who therefore could not be ignorant of the fabrication. It was, however, bat justice to say, that no blame could be imputed to her majesty's legal advisers. They had very honourably and voluntarily communicated to his majesty's ministers that they were no parties to the publication, and that nobody could regret it more than they did. He concluded by moving that the meeting of the secret committee be postponed to Saturday next.The Earl of Liverpool
1035 after what had passed, did not intend that day to present the bill of which he had given notice on Friday; and in rising now, he meant to do nothing
1035Lord Holland,
 rose to move the second reading of the bill for regulating the right of voting at the election of peers to represent the peerage of Scotland. He observed, that neither in the acts of parliament relative to the election of Scotch peers, nor in any of the resolutions come to at different times on that subject by their lordships, was there any provision for the evil which the present bill was meant to prevent. The object of the bill was, to guard against cases of unqualified persons assuming the right of voting, there being no power to reject their votes at the time. He appealed to noble lords who knew the practice, whether it was not the fact, that scarcely an election occurred in which persons did not vote, who, in the opinion of every one present, were not entitled to give their suffrages. It was proposed by the bill to exclude from voting (with some exceptions) all persons who claimed as succeeding to deceased peers, until they had made out their titles. This would prevent the intrusion of individuals, who, from vanity or worse motives, often interfered in those elections. The right of petition and redress would, of course, be open to those who might consider themselves wronged. The inconveniences of which he had spoken would not occur at the election for the peers of Scotland, if the same provision had been made respecting them as exists with regard to the Irish peers. No Irish peer, not even the direct descendant of a deceased peer, is allowed to vote at the election of a peer to sit in that House, until he has folly made out his title. He did not mean to interfere with the claim to vote where the right was obviously undoubted. The bill, therefore, as far as regarded direct descendants, left the practice as it now stood, and only required collateral descendants to make out their titles.The Earl of Roseberry
1045 did not oppose the bill, which, under all the circumstances connected with the elections of Scotch peers, was, he thought, entitled to their lord-
1045Lord Melville
 approved of the object of the bill. Such was the practice at the election of Scotch peers, that he could at any time procure fifteen or sixteen votes, which would be good for the time, though protested against. He did not think it competent to the House to attain the object of the bill by a resolution. He believed it would not be necessary to insert the word brothers in the bill, as the brother of a peer must be also the son of a peer. As Scotch peers could not be created, it followed that the brother would be the son of a peer. It could not be otherwise, unless the deceased peer had succeeded collateral. He was fully of opinion that peers should make out their claim before they assumed the right of voting; but there was another class of claimants besides those to which the bill applied. Against two claimants of this description the House had passed a resolution, directing the clerk register not to receive their votes until they made out their claims. He should, perhaps, on a future occasion, propose a resolution that no person should vote until they had made good their titles.The Earl of Lauderdale
 in explanation, observed, that the clause in the bill excepted the sons and grandsons of peers; but he still thought that brothers ought also to be excepted, because it might happen, from collateral succession, that the brother of a deceased peer was not the son of a peer.Lord Melville,
1046 approved of the bill. The provision in the law respecting Irish peers was extremely salutary, and be thought it might be properly extended to the Scotch. An English peer must have a writ before he appears to take his seat in that House. It was also necessary to prove that he was the legitimate son of his father, to whom he succeeded; and, in cases in which there could not be the slightest doubt, this proof often required
1046The Lord Chancellor
 remarked, that such proof was not necessary in Scotland, from the nature of the law respecting marriage.The Earl of Lauderdale
 was aware that there were many modes of contracting marriage in Scotland. He had heard, he believed, three or four hundred ways pointed out by counsel at their lordships bar, who descanted on the subjects as learnedly as if they had had three or four hundred wives themselves.The Lord Chancellor
 thought that the object which the noble lord had in view might be more conveniently obtained by a resolution of the House. He concurred, however, in the necessity of some regulation being applied to the practice which at present prevailed.Earl Cathcart
1097 adverted to the case of
1097Earl Grosvenor
 observed, that he would be very much obliged to the noble lord or any other person who could show him how relief could be administered in cases which really deserved it; but the subject had been much misunderstood. The committals for contempt generally arose in consequence of the party refusing to do some act ordered by the court. Now, if the party had the power, and refused, his case was similar to that of a debtor, who, though he had the means of payment, allowed himself to be taken in execution, and chose to remain in prison; and if the present Jaw did not apply to such a debtor, why should it in the case of contempt? In fact, it was not the law that imprisoned the party, but the party that imprisoned himself. Suppose an individual, who is entitled to have the conveyance of an estate from another, calls upon a court of equity to make an order to that effect, and, when the order is made, the individual refuses to obey, and is thrown into prison, was it the fault of the court that the individual rather chose to remain there than to make the conveyance? If there were any cases to which relief could with propriety be extended, he would most readily concur in any measure to that effect. But their lordships must be careful that such measure was consistent with the principles of justice. It was impossible to give relief in cases where men, to the injury of others, refused to do acts which they were legally called upon to perform, and instead of obeying the order of the court, by which they would be relieved, rather chose to stay in prison and complain.The Lord Chancellor
1098 rose to move to discharge the order for the meeting of the secret committee to-morrow,
1098The Earl of Liverpool
 did not wish to oppose the motion of adjournment; but he could not help expressing his surprise at the extraordinary nature of the proceeding. He believed this was the only case in which a measure adopted on a communication from the throne had been suspended without any public reason being assigned for the interruption, or any fresh communication on the subject being received from the throne. At the same time he believed there were very strong and cogent reasons for the course which the noble earl now recommended—reasons so strong and cogent as to supersede the orders and usual practice of that House, which were themselves of the greatest importance. Their lordships must, however, now clearly perceive the singular and extraordinary predicament in which they had been placed by the hasty appointment of the committee. When, however, the whole business should be brought to a conclusion, he hoped the noble earl would find some means of explaining the extraordinary circumstances which had taken place to the satisfaction of the House, and that the transaction would be entered on the Journals in a way to remove all future doubt or difficulty on the subject.The Marquis of Lansdowne
 though he did not object to the motion, found it impossible to avoid expressing the sense he entertained of the disgraceful state into which the House had been brought, in consequence of following the advice of the noble lord opposite, and appointing the committee. He hoped their lordships would on future occasions weigh well the consequences of their decision before they came to a vote which might involve them in so much inconsistency. He hoped and trusted they would take warning from what had taken place in this extraordinary proceeding.The Earl of Darnley,
1099 had no intention of saying any thing more on the subject than what he had stated on moving the adjournment of the committee. He would
1099The Earl of Liverpool
 notwithstanding what had been said by the noble lord, still felt the weight of the difficulty in which the House was placed, which had arisen from their lordships being prevailed upon to agree to the appointment of a committee before it was known in what way the other House would proceed. It had been expected that the other House would have been as pliant as their lordships House; but in this ministers were disappointed. The concurrent vote which was anticipated had not taken place: and, in consequence of their lordships reliance on the opinion of the noble lord opposite, they were now placed in a most extraordinary and unprecedented situation. His noble friends had fully warned their lordships of the difficulty into which they were about to entangle themselves, and they must now be sensible that if their advice had been followed it would have been avoided.The Earl of Darnley,
110211011100 rose to bring in a bill for the repeal of the Royal Marriage act. It being the unquestionable privilege of a peer to introduce a bill without asking leave, and it being so much the practice of the House to have a bill read a first time on its being
110211011100Lord Holland
 admitted that it was usual to allow a bill presented by a noble lord to be read a first time, but the noble lord was in error if he conceived this to be a matter of right. It certainly was the practice of the House to let a bill pass through the first reading unless it contained something so palpably gross as to render it inadmissible. He certainly did not mean to oppose the present motion; but at the same time he thought it necessary to observe, that he had the most decided objection to the principle of the measure proposed by the noble lord, and that he would at the proper time 6tatelhe grounds of his objection.The Earl of Liverpool
 in explanation, observed, that he had not demanded their lordships' assent to the first reading as a matter of right, but had stated that to permit a bill to pass through that stage was so much the usage of the House, that any noble lord to whom the same indulgence was refused would have reason to consider himself hardly dealt with.Lord Holland
1137 rose and said:—My lords; upon several occasions I have of late had to move your lordships to postpone the meeting of the Secret Committee appointed, in pursuance of his majesty's message, respecting charges of which we are all aware, on the ground that discussion and explanations were going on, pending which it would not be expedient to enter into the consideration of the papers communicated from the Crown. It is with regret I have now to state, that contrary to the expectation entertained, at least for a time, by myself and by others, and I may say generally by both Houses of Parliament and the country, that discussion and those explanations have failed in producing the desired result, and paying upon the table a bundle of papers] I am commanded by his majesty to lay these papers upon the table, containing the details of that negotiation. As in all cases where papers are laid upon the table by command of the Crown, they are in a course of printing, and will be ready for delivering to the members of the House to-morrow-morning. Your lordships are aware that the meeting of the secret committee, to whom the papers communicated by his majesty's message are referred, stands fixed for to-morrow, but as in fairness and candour noble lords ought to have an opportunity of considering the papers I have now laid upon the table, previous to the meeting of the secret committee, in order that they may be enabled to judge
1137The Earl of Liverpool
:—I wish to ask the noble earl, whether it is his intention to found any proceeding upon the papers which he has just laid upon the table by command of his majesty?The Marquis of Lansdowne
:—I have no difficulty, my lords, in saying that it is not my intention to found any proceeding upon these papers. It will be for your lordships to judge of their contents, and it will be competent for any noble lord to make any motion respecting them that he shall deem expedient, or any motion as to the further proceeding or not of the secret committee.The Earl of Liverpool
:—If I understand the noble earl, he does not mean to found any proceeding upon these papers; but it surety must follow, from the conduct of the noble earl upon this point, that his opinion is made up, that the consideration of these papers will form no ground for a further postponing the meeting of the secret committee.The Marquis of Lansdowne
:—My lords, I have delivered no such opinion, nor do I mean to do it. It will be for your lordships to consider, whether there is any thing in these papers that ought to have the effect or not, of further postponing the meeting of the committee.The Earl of Liverpool
11421141 wished to draw their lordships attention to the real state of the subject under discussion. He understood his noble relation to have been desirous of ascertaining what the drift and bearing of papers laid on the table were—whether they were such as might be expected to prevent the sitting of the committee, or to make their lordships consider that it would be their duty to direct the committee to proceed. When the noble earl who had just sat down argued that the case was unprecedented, he did not take into consideration, that what his noble friend objected to was, not only that the proceedings were without precedent, but that they were without reason also. When there was no precedent to go by, it at least might be expected that then reason would be chosen for the guide. The message from the Crown assured their lordships that every thing had been done to avert the painful disclosures which must unavoidably take place. Besides the papers which accompanied that message another set was now laid before their lordships, without any object for such a communication being assigned. They had but very lately been told that the utmost had been done to avert the dreaded disclosures and now came forth another batch of papers to show that something more than the utmost had been done. But the noble earl acted on the present occasion in a very different manner from what was usually practised when similar proceedings were instituted. When green bags full of accusations against the people were brought down, did ministers content themselves merely with referring them to a secret committee, and refuse to say a word on the nature of the charges? By no means. An inflamed description of the contents of the bags was then given. At present, however, not a word was said,
11421141Lord Holland
 could not avoid noticing the statement of the noble earl that the delay which had taken place was in consequence of the desire of that House. He positively denied that assertion. The vote of the House, in fact, did express a wish that the committee should be appointed, and nothing else. But it was not the opinion of that House which had been the ground of the delay, but what had occurred in another place. He would ask their lordships whether any of them really believed that the proceedings of the committee would have been delayed bad the House of Commons come to the same vote as that House had? By this transaction he conceived that the House had covered itself with disgrace.The Earl of Darnley
 reminded their lordships, that on the day when the message was taken into consideration, he had stated a broad constitutional doubt against the course of proceeding recommended by the noble earl. Every thing which had 6ince occurred convinced him of the propriety of the opinion he then gave; but the noble lords opposite did not on that day hold out the slightest idea that there could be any possible objection to the immediate commencement of the investigation by the secret committee. On the second day, however, before any noble lord spoke a word, the noble earl proposed a course of proceeding by which the committee, though appointed, was to be prevented from transacting business. The whole of this proceeding was roost inconsistent and improper.The Marquis of Lansdowne
1144 was now as firmly of opinion as he was on the first day, that if the committee was to be appointed, the mode which had been taken was the most constitutional, and consequently the best that could be adopted. From the circumstances which had occurred since the appointment, he was also satisfied, that the postponement of the sitting of the committee was not un constitutional, and indeed that it was highly proper. With respect to the justification of the original course, he should not go into that now; but he was fully prepared to explain the grounds on which he had proceeded, as soon as the proper time for that explanation came. All that he had proposed on the second day was, that if the House agreed to ballot for the committee, it should not sit for a few days, in order to give time for a negotiation. He was not then arguing whether it was most proper to proceed to the ballot, or to adjourn the sitting of the committee; but he was confident that the feeling of the House was, that both courses came practically to much the same point. Whatever difficulties presented themselves now, would equally have existed had the ballot been delayed. The noble baron had supposed him to have said, on the first proposition for delay, that he had no expectation of a favourable result to the negotiation; but he believed be did not assert, either that he had or had not any expectation. All that he stated was, that discussions and explanations
1144The Earl of Liverpool
 believed that there was no question before the House, and, as the whole discussion was therefore out of order, he should if it was proposed to continue it longer, move that the House do adjourn.Lord Rolle
 said, that the usual way of answering such a question was, to desire that the list of papers should be read.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he should move that the papers be read, in order to see if it was proper that they should agree to the adjournment.Lord Holland
 maintained the right of any peer to call for the reading of papers lying on the table which might have a connection with the question in debate—the reading of an act of parliament for instance.Lord Holland
 said, that if the sense of the House was against his motion he certainly should not press it. He had moved it on perceiving that there was no question before the House.Lord Rolle
 said, the only motion before them was the question of adjournment. How far the speeches which their lordships had heard bore any reference to that question, it was for the House itself to decide, but for his own part, he should say that he was not able to discover any. Any noble lord might introduce topics, the application of which it would be difficult to see until he had made it himself.The Lord Chancellor
1146 wished to know whether it was the intention of ministers to lay before the House any previous communications on the same subject. The House had been told at an early stage of those proceedings, that the utmost efforts had been made, and now papers were brought down which ought in justice to contain all that had passed. It was a maxim which every day's experience confirmed, that those who judged on a partial view must judge imperfectly, so that if any thing had passed antecedently to the papers now communicated, it was foolish and vain to think of arriving at any correct determination on those imperfect do-
1146The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, that there was but one paper of a date anterior to the 9th, and that he should feel no difficulty in communicating it.The Earl of Liverpool
 again observed, that it was impossible for a moment to doubt that the committee would have sat and proceeded to business, had the House of Commons come to the same vote as their lordships did.The Earl of Darnley
1143 in explanation, said, that if there were instances of papers having been laid before parliament by the Crown, on which no subsequent measure was founded there was at least no instance during a pending proceeding of fresh papers being communicated without some reference to the manner in which those papers would affect such proceeding. Ministers, in all they had said, had never given a hint as to the view they entertained of those pa-
1143Earl Grey,
11391138 did not rise to oppose the motion, but wished merely to ask some explanation, in the hope of obtaining, if possible, from the noble earl, something like the statement of a ground for this extraordinary proceeding. A message from the Crown, relative to the conduct of the queen-consort, had been delivered to the House; that message was accompanied by papers, containing, it was said, serious charges against her majesty; and these papers had been referred by their lordships to the examination of a secret committee. That committee, however, had never proceeded to the examination and the day of meeting had been adjourned from time to time. There appeared no reason for this conduct; none had been assigned, and none could be as-
11391138Earl Grey
1140 did not know whether there was properly any question before the House; but he could not refrain from making a few observations on what had fallen from the noble earl opposite. The noble earl had very unreasonably made it a charge against the executive government, that they did not proceed in this case by precedent. Now, he would challenge him to show, in the annals of the country, any case which could afford any precedent for the present. If there was no case from which a precedent could be drawn, and if little light could be derived from any similarity between this and former proceedings, the fair inference rather was, that ministers had acted with propriety in not attempting to establish on precedents measures for which no precedent could be found. The noble earl, perhaps, in consequence of his absence from that House, had not been correct in his statement of the cause of the adjournment of the committee. That adjournment had been proposed in consequence of the wish expressed in that House, as well as in another place, that means might be found to spare to parliament and the country the pain to which the disclosures and discussions incident on the investigation might give rise. This wish was expressed as intelligibly as the vote that had been founded upon it. But when the negotiation was now closed, would it not have been rather a ground of accusation against his majesty's servants, if, after they had advised it, they had refrained from laying a full account of all that had passed before parliament? He was convinced it would have been made a charge against them, if, after having entered into a negotiation, they had refused to give the House any information on the subject. The noble earl was also wrong in what he had stated respecting the practice of laying papers before parliament. It was, he conceived, not altogether uncommon for the Crown to lay papers on the table, without calling for any opinion on them. This had been done not merely in matters of minor importance., but at the end of a war treaties of peace had been laid before parliament without any opinion being asked
1140The Earl of Harrowby
 was confident that the wish expressed by every noble lord who took part in the debate on the appointment of the committee was, that farther time should be granted for discussion and explanation.The Earl of Harrowby
 did not see the propriety of appointing the committee originally. The learned lord on the Woolsack had said that the House was not likely to be called upon in its judicial capacity to decide on the contents of the papers on the table, and that therefore their lordships would not be prejudging the question by making a report upon them. But it was not yet evident to his mind what the House of Commons might do, or that it would agree with the noble and learned lord, and therefore he was against the appointment of the committee altogether. For the same reason he saw no propriety in refer ring the present papers to their lordships without some explanation, or some declaration of the course of proceeding which ought to be adopted. He rose, therefore, to ask the opinion of ministers on the subject; he wished to know why they had not given some reason for the further adjournment, and what probability there was that any steps might be taken in the mean time to prevent the inquiry altogether. He wished to know why ministers, as they knew the contents of the papers, did not take the responsibility of acting upon themselves, and tell the House whether they meant to proceed on Friday next or not. He begged the noble earl opposite to explain what was the object and tendency of the documents now submitted to their lordships—how far they extended—and what specific correspondence they embraced. Did they only contain the correspondence that passed between the ministry and: the agents of the queen during this and the last week? or did they contain any information regarding the previous negotiations?Lord Dacre
 said, there was no question regularly before the House, but the noble earl having laid papers on the table by the command of his majesty, which must shortly come under consideration, the regular way was to read the whole of the papers. Not one of their lordships with the exception of ministers, knew what they contained, so that he thought that the titles might at least be read.Earl Spencer
1147 contended, that his majesty's ministers ought not to demand the opinion of parliament on the late proceedings without giving information on what had previously taken place. The papers now laid on the table contained the official correspondence of a negotiation instituted for the purpose of endeavouring to bring about an accommodation without the necessity of making disclosures. Before their lordships could judge of the propriety of that negotiation, they should be informed of the nature of the charge against the queen, and the evidence on which it rested. Their lordships were called upon to give advice to the Crown on this delicate question; and how could they advise his majesty what to do, without knowing the nature of the charges against the other party? The ministers who possessed the documents in which they were contained, could alone decide with propriety, and ought therefore to take the responsibility of deciding. It was plain that the House could not. He, for one, would never deliver an opinion till he was made acquainted with the whole of the charges. Some thought that her majesty's name should be restored to the liturgy, that she should reside in England and enjoy all the rights and privileges belonging to her station: and how could he or any other noble lord, deliver an opinion for or against these claims without knowing the grounds on which they were denied her? It was not from any desire to see the green bag opened that he thus spoke; but he found himself under the necessity of so expressing himself, when called upon to decide on the result of a negotiation without knowing the reasons why it was begun. He had consented to the appointment of the secret committee: he did not think such a committee either illegal or unconstitutional, but that was not the question now before the House. The question was, whether they should decide without having that information
1147Lord Erskine
1201l.l.12001199 rose, on the order of the day for the third reading of the Mutiny bill. Before he made the motion of which he had given notice, for a reduction of the present number
1201l.l.12001199Earl Grosvenor
1202 said, that with regard to the circumstances to which the noble earl had alluded in the commencement of his speech, he must observe, that the reports respecting those circumstances had been grossly exaggerated. He had also the satisfaction to state, that any dissatisfaction which prevailed had now completely subsided; and he could assure the noble earl that it was not to be ascribed to any of the causes to which he had alluded. At the same time, he could not but add, that he thought the noble earl would have acted more prudently if, considering the state in which the affair now was, he had refrained from saying any thing on the subject. With regard to the noble earl's amendment, he felt himself bound to oppose it, though he must observe that it was with as much regret as could be felt by any man that he agreed to recommend the insertion of the words in his majesty's speech at the opening of the session relative to the increase of the military force. No man could have been more indisposed than he was to make any addition to the army, until he was convinced that the increase was necessary to
1202The Earl of Liverpool
 assured their lordships that it was with extreme reluctance he now rose to propose any farther adjournment of the order for the meeting of the secret committee to which the consideration of the papers connected with his majesty's message was referred, and which at present stood fixed for to morrow; but circumstances had come to his knowledge which led him still to entertain hopes that some adjustment might take place which would render any investigation of the papers laid on the table unnecessary. Under these circum stances, he should not act consistently with the course he had hitherto pursued in this important and delicate business, if he did not propose to their lordships a farther adjournment of the committee.—The day for which he should propose the meeting was Tuesday next. He felt most strongly all he objections which must arise in the minds of their lordships to any unnecessary delay. He trusted, however, they would be satisfied that nothing but the most urgent considerations could have induced him to propose this adjournment and he had only to add, that if the adjustment did hot take place before Monday, he should then feel it to be his duty to propose that the committee should proceed to the investigation for which it was appointed.The Earl of Liverpool
1209 was confident that their lordships would feel the difficulty of the situation in which he stood. It was impossible for him, in this stage of the proceeding, to explain the grounds of his conduct, and what were the reasons which had induced him, and those who acted with him, to tender to the sovereign, the advice they had thought it their duty to give; but he trusted that, in the interval before the time arrived when he should be at liberty to state the reasons of the course which had been pursued, then-lordships would give him credit for not having shrunk from offering any advice that appeared necessary, either for the honour of the Crown, the advantage of the country, or the particular interests of the case. He assured their lordships that, were this the last day of his existence, he could lay his hand on his heart and declare, that in no business—and since the commencement of his public life, none had been to him so personally painful—had his majesty's ministers ever given any advice to the Crown in which he was so fully convinced that they had acted in the way which was most consistent with their duty to their sovereign and their country. If he abstained from stating the reasons which had governed the conduct of his majesty's advisers, it was because it was impossible at that time to enter into them with propriety. But he denied that any imputation could, in the mean time, be cast upon them. Neither would he admit that any disgrace had fallen upon
1209The Earl of Liverpool
 regarded the present proposition as standing on the same grounds as all the former motions for postponement; namely, that there existed some hope of terminating by negotiation the differences which were to have been referred to a committee. He could not look upon that House as covered with disgrace by the adjournments. It was not the other House, as had been argued, that had caused these adjournments. The same cause which operated to induce the other House to adjourn operated on their lordships also. The only distinction was, that the two Houses were in a different situation as to the stage of proceeding in which delay had been suggested. Their lordships had appointed the committee, and the other House had not. When it was first proposed to adjourn the question, he had ventured to predict, that unless a short period was finally fixed, there could be no hope of an arrangement taking place; and the apprehensions he then expressed he was sorry to find were realized. From the papers on the table, he was convinced there was no hope of adjustment without the assistance of parliament. It was only through the immediate interference of parliament that any satisfactory result could be expected.Lord Ellenborough
1211 observed, that the noble lord who had just spoken concurred with the noble lord opposite in the propriety of delay. The only reason assigned for postponement was the expectation of an adjustment. But the noble lord who had just sat down was of opinion there could be no settlement without the interference of parliament; and he was sure no reasons more strong could be urged, than those that that noble lord had given against the very motion he supported. He was also persuaded that the dignity of the House had not suffered by the proceedings which had taken place, because the same causes had operated on both Houses to induce them to postpone the proceedings. There was certainly something ingenious in this argument, but it was rather singular that those causes had always operated in that House precisely the day after they had operated in the other. Their lordships were now deliberating on the propriety of adjourning the committee: of course, this
1211Lord Holland
1212 said:—My lords, after what has passed, I feel it, necessary to trouble your lordships with a very few words. I
1212Lord Erskines
 remarked, that although the noble lord (Ellenborough) had avowed his belief that; negotiation could not be successful unless conducted under the control of parliament, he had with some degree of inconsistency voted for the further adjournment of the inquiry. It was more consistent that they who thought the green bag should never be opened, should support such a motion. He hoped sincerely that the question of the queen's guilt or innocence would never be brought forward, but he would not at the present moment express any opinion upon it. As little was he prepared to pass a censure upon ministers upon such points as had not been fully explained to the House, but he might express his opinion upon certain notorious facts. He could not therefore avoid remarking, that so far as these facts appeared, the conduct of ministers seemed to have been a series of false moves, in which they were constantly in check. He saw not how they could get out, but if they persevered they must lose the game. By having her name erased from the liturgy her majesty was at once condemned, without being allowed the chance of a defence. This was a proceeding under which no woman of feeling or spirit (and her majesty did not appear to be deficient in either) could sit down contented The noble earl recapitulated the measures pursued against the queen and concluded by expressing his fears that the conduct of the House would not, in the opinion of the public, appear to be free from reproach.The Earl of Darnley
"To the last syllable of recorded time!""Creeps in this petty pace from day to day,"Adjournment, and adjournment, and adjournment,12081207 could not help expressing his astonishment that such a proposal should be made; but as the noble earl had stated that, from circumstances which had come to his knowledge, he entertained hopes than an, adjustment would take place, it was impossible for him to offer any opposition to the motion for postponing the committee. At the same time, it was equally impossible for him to refrain from calling their lordships' attention to the extraordinary and disgraceful situation in which the House was placed, in consequence of the conduct of the noble lord and his colleagues. He had already stated that situation to be disgraceful, and upon
"To the last syllable of recorded time!""Creeps in this petty pace from day to day,"Adjournment, and adjournment, and adjournment,12081207Earl Grey
1210 said, he would not object to this motion for the further postponement of the inquiry but had he been present in the House or in the country when the proposition was first made for the appointment of a secret committee, he should have done all in his power to dissuade their lordships from adopting so unwise and unsafe a measure. He should now of course bow to the decision of the House, yet he might be permitted to express his opinion upon the subjects. The measure being in his mind originally wrong, he could not therefore oppose the postponement of it. The measure was wrong, because it bound the House to decide upon a question in their legislative capacity, which they might have to determine subsequently in their judicial capacity. This point, as he collected from the ordinary sources of intelligence, had been strongly urged on the first night, but their lordships had decided against it. Circumstances, however, had since occurred, which pretty clearly proved that more wisdom would have been displayed, and the dignity of the House would have been
1210Earl Spencer
1316 was sorry that the noble lord at the head of his majesty's government was absent, as he wished to ask him a question on the subject of that most unfortunate business which had so long occupied the attention of parliament and the public. What he would have inquired, had the noble lord been present, was, whether he meant to abide by his intention of allowing the sittings of the secret committee to take place on Tuesday next, if no amicable adjustment, or rather no arrangement of the differences, should then have taken place. If the noble lord did on Monday bring forward any proposition, he should, in the first place, reserve himself for its consideration. If, on the contrary, the noble lord intended to make no proposal to the House on that day, but should act on his declaration of yesterday, namely, to allow the committee to meet on Tuesday if an adjustment was not concluded by Monday, he should think it his duty on the latter day to call their lordships' attention to circumstances which had taken place, by which
1316Earl Grey
 had no desire to prolong the discussion, but wished that the noble lord, and others who concurred with him would lay down some course which he could follow. Notwithstanding all that the noble lord had said, he considered that duties were imposed on him very different from those which the great majority of their lordships had to perform. He was not aware that any similar petition had ever been presented; but, as he had said, he had no objection to its being submitted to the House.The Lord Chancellor
 concurred with his noble friend. The duties of the noble and learned lord, in rising and speaking from that wool-sack, differed in no respect from those of any other peer of parliament. His duties in that House were not to be regulated by any other duties. While he sat there he was bound to consider himself only as a member of that House. It was a doctrine of great importance, that nothing coming from him was to be considered as having greater weight or authority than if it came from any other peer. His conduct therefore was not to be regulated by other motives than those which regulated that of any other member of that assembly. They were all peers, and no individual among them could address the House with any greater authority than that which belonged to his character. The privileges of the House would indeed be materially abridged, were it to be presumed that any man among them could, by what he individually did, bind that House. There could, therefore, be no objection to the noble and learned lord's presenting the petition, which would not have been equally an objection on the part of any other noble lord. There might be a difficulty in finding precedents for the present case, and he had no doubt that the journals had, as the noble and learned lord said, been searched in vain; but when there was no other mode in which the illustrious petitioner could apply than this, it was not reasonable to think that there could be any impropriety in presenting her petition. The noble and learned lord said that he had refused to present letter from her majesty; but that was quite a different case, as he might then have appeared as acting for the House. No such objection, however, could apply to the presenting of a petition.Lord Holland
 said, that all their lordships were agreed as to the propriety of receiving the petition. He would receive it, not because there was any precedent for it, but because it was a clear principle of constitutional right that the applications of subjects, however high or however low, should be received by their lordships, in cases in which their interests were affected. The only question was, whether it should be received in a more solemn and formal manner than other applications; and as that could not be the case, it should be received in the usual way. He begged, however, to say a word or two on the plea of his noble and learned friend on the woolsack for refusing to present the petition, and what had fallen from the noble lords opposite on that subject. He admitted that their lordships were all equal in point of duties and privileges, and if the illustrious petitioner could not have access to the House but through one individual of their lordships, that individual should have presented it. But there were individual peers through whom it would be highly improper to present certain applications. Suppose, for instance, a petitioner were to request any of their lordships to present a petition against one of his own relations, could he not very properly decline, and request the petitioner to apply to some other quarter? To say, therefore, that any individual peer of parliament might not have particular reasons for declining to do certain duties which might be more properly done by others, and that, in the exercise of his discretion, I he might not decline those duties, would I be denying him his undoubted privilege. There might be petitions which, considered as a peer of parliament, he might have no objection to present; but, considered as holding a particular office, and exhibiting a particular character, he might be prevented from offering to the House. This was the case with his noble and learned friend. But his noble and learned friend might have another reason; he knew I that there was no precedent for this, and he did not think that, this being a new case, he ought to comply without deliberation. It was, therefore, more proper that it should come from any other member of the House. Any noble lord might say, that such a petition, though fit to be presented, might not be fit to be presented by him.The Earl of Liverpool
1329 perfectly agreed with a great part of what had fal-
1329The Marquis of Lansdowne
1330R. explained. He claimed all the privileges, and was willing to execute all the duties of the peerage; and desired it to be understood, that he would never refuse to present a petition, whether from the highest or the lowest subject, if consistent with what he thought his duties to the House He would not allow that he was acting from personal motives while he declined presenting a petition for which he had no precedent. He thought that the presenting of this petition was a strong measure, which he was not called upon to execute sitting where he did.1330R.The Lord Chancellor
1335133413331332ex parte1331 began to address their lordships. He said he had the honour to attend their lordships as counsel for her majesty, the Queen, and he understood that he should now be heard in support of the petition which had just been read. It might perhaps have been more consistent with his duty if, feeling,
1335133413331332ex parte1331Mr. Brougham
1338"Hath devised this slander.""Some cogging, cozening slave to get some office,"Some busy and insinuating rogue13371336 followed.—He said, that in advising this petition to be brought down, he did not think that he was guilty of any violation of the forms of the House, or that there was any thing in that proceeding derogatory from the dignity of her majesty. He could not suppose that there were any motives of a personal nature, or any considerations resulting either from effect or connexion, that would make it improper in him to request any peer to present this petition. Still less did he doubt whether it was competent to be received. It had, in fact been received, and therefore it was unnecessary for him to allude any further to the consideration of the mode in which it was presented. He apprehended that every one who was injured had a right to petition that House; and if a petition was to be excluded, it remained for those who opposed its reception to show the grounds of a proceeding so contrary to the justice of their lordships. As to the mode of the present application, he apprehended that her majesty, as the first subject in the realm, had right to petition or remonstrate in a case where her best interests, her honour, perhaps her life, were at their lordships' disposal. He was totally unable to define the anomalous character of the proceed-
1338"Hath devised this slander.""Some cogging, cozening slave to get some office,"Some busy and insinuating rogue13371336Mr. Denman
 observed, that the judges had given it as their opinion, that there was no ground of complaint in the petitioner's case. With regard to the motion made by the noble earl on a former occasion, his objections to the power of the magistrates were, at the time they were made, deserving of every attention; but was fully of opinion, that they were not founded in law.The Lord Chancellor
1326 had no objection to the petition being laid on the table, but thought it necessary to say a few words in consequence of what had fallen from the noble lord who presented it. He felt that he had, as a peer, duties to perform to every subject of the realm; but in the situation in which he stood he knew that he had also one great duty to perform to that House. He declared, upon his honour, that when he declined to present the petition he entertained no objection to its being submitted to the consideration of the House, but it appeared to him better that it should be presented by any other noble lord than by himself. A due regard to the situation in which he stood induced him to pause, when called upon to present this petition. He had not, however, three minutes for the consideration of the question. He had certainly taken great pains to learn what was the proper mode of proceeding in such a case, but no light could be derived from any thing found in the Journals. He had on a former occasion refused to present a letter
1326The Lord Chancellor
1327 was sensible that no person was more disposed on every occasion to discharge his duty to the House and the country conscientiously than the noble and learned lord. That no motives but such as arose from the consideration of his duty could have prevented the noble lord from presenting the petition he was well convinced; but the noble and learned lord must allow him to think, that the view he had taken of his situation was an erroneous one. That his sitting on that woolsack gave him different duties with respect to applications of this kind from any other noble lord was what he could not admit. He apprehended that there was no distinction of the nature of that which the noble lord endeavoured to set up. For his part, feeling that the doors of that House ought always, in some way or other, to be open to every person who complained of a denial of justice, had that petition been offered to him he would not have thought it necessary to take three minutes to consider the propriety of submitting it to the consideration of their lordships; but after satisfying himself that it was couched in proper language, should have thought himself bound to present it. The noble and learned lord had formed, doubtless most conscientiously, a different opinion; but that opinion, he must contend, was founded on a mistaken view of the noble and learned lord's situation. He could not help making these observations on this subject; for it was important
1327Earl Grey
 presented a petition from JR. G. Butt, stating his having brought an action against sir N. Conant for false imprisonment, in committing him on a charge of libel before any indictment found or information filed, and that the judges had decided the point against him; he therefore complained to the House, and prayed relief, &c. His lordship, in presenting the petition, adverted to what he had formerly said upon the subject of the power assumed, or, he would rather say, usurped by magistrates, of judging of the nature of libel, by committing on charges for that alleged offence, without any indictment being found or information filed. To the opinion he then expressed, he still adhered, considering, as he did, such a practice to be a departure from the ancient laws of the land, and to be contrary to the principles of the constitution.Earl Grey
13251324 rose. He said he had been requested to present a petition which he felt it to be his duty to offer to their lordships, inasmuch as it related to matters of great importance, and was worded with propriety. The petition was from her majesty, and it had been hoped that that illustrious person would have been enabled to place it on the table through a medium better calculated to give weight to the proceeding—namely, through that of the highest authority in the House. As, however, that expectation had not been realized, it fell to his lot to call their lordships attention to the subject. In this petition
13251324Lord Dacre
 said, he had on a former occasion, when his noble friend brought the subject before the House, stated that he considered arrest for libel, before an indictment was found, to be illegal; and he still maintained that opinion.Lord Erskine
2 said, he had certainly, in consequence of that respectful attention which he thought due to the feelings of the House, and to the important nature of the subject, after the argument which had been heard at the bar, thought it his duty to propose that their lordships should be allowed twenty-four hours to consider whether what was stated in her majesty's petition, or what had been urged in its support, ought to induce them to make any change in the course of their proceeding. For his own part, he had no difficulty, upon the fullest consideration he was capable of giving to the subject, and after reference made to analogous proceedings on other occasions, which, though affording no direct precedent, might be in some measure similar, in declaring it to be his opinion that the course which had been at first adopted by their lordships, in appointing a secret committee, was that which was most fitting, with refer-
2The Earl of Liverpool
2221ipse dixit201918ex parte1716 said, he had heard the speech of the noble earl with great surprise. The beginning of it contained a legal argument against the mode of proceeding adopted by their lordships, in which he said that the present was no party question, but that it ought to be decided by the principles of justice. How much, therefore, was he surprised to hear the noble earl, in the conclusion of his observations, so completely belying his professions, and making one of the most inflammatory party attacks that was ever made within the walls of parliament [Hear, hear!] This attack was general, and he (lord Liverpool) was prepared to repel it. He was prepared to appeal from the judgment of the noble earl, to the country, to parliament, and to posterity, and to be tried by them for the conduct pursued by himself and his colleagues for the last eight years. He was willing that their counsels and acts should be compared with the counsels and acts of the administration with which the noble earl had been connected. He would ask their lordships what now would have been the situation and prospects of the country, if the counsels of the noble earl and of his friends had been followed? He again declared that he was willing to be tried for the general conduct of admi-
2221ipse dixit201918ex parte1716The Earl of Liverpool
29velocipede28272625 was anxious to state to their lordships the reasons by which he was actuated in the course that he took on the present occasion. His noble and learned friend who had just sat down, had surely forgotten that the question of the omission of the queen's name in the Liturgy was just in the same state as that in which it was when his noble and learned friend so powerfully argued in favour of the appointment of the committee. Adverting to what had been said by the noble mover of his construction of the statute of Edward 3rd, he complained that the noble earl had, although he was sure quite unintentionally, misrepresented his former statement on that subject. He then proceeded to show how far the statute of Edward 3rd, relative to high treason, referred to the case of a queen-consort accused of adultery, and said, that it was only by a forced construction of that act that she could be viewed as guilty of high treason. He declared this to be his opinion, after a careful examination of the text of lord Coke, who could not make out the doctrine which he had laid down, except by twisting the words of an act of parliament into a sense which they did not naturally bear. Such a plan of proceeding was unjust, and ought on no account to be allowed. Lord Coke's way of making adultery in a queen consort high treason was by considering the party with whom it was committed guilty of high treason, by looking upon her as an accomplice with him, and by then stating that in treason all the parties were principals. This way of construing adultery into treason, defective as it was, could only apply when the adulterous intercourse was carried on with a subject of the realm; but how could it be so construed when the adultery was committed with a foreigner abroad, who, owing no allegiance to this country, could not be guilty of high treason, or indeed of any other offence against its laws or institutions? His noble friend had said, that supposing evidence existed to convict the queen of high treason, he should not have thought it requisite to have referred the case in the first instance even to the House of Commons, but would; have considered it the duty of his majesty's confidential advisers to have instituted proceedings at once before the proper tribunal, and to have put her on her trial according to the regular course of law. But this mode of proceeding, even
29velocipede28272625The Lord Chancellor
343332ex-parte3130 commenced by observing, that much as it would pain him to differ on any occasion with his noble friend who had brought forward the present motion—and it would give him more pain to differ from him on this than on any other question—still he must solemnly declare, that, if he could bring himself to think that the House was in a situation in which it could consistently with its own dignity and the principles of justice rightly understood, either close this painful scene for ever, or enter upon it afresh with a better chance of success than that which had attended their late efforts, he would most certainly not give his vote in favour of the motion of his noble friend. But not seeing that there was any chance of effecting either of those purposes, he should not enter into any idle discussions upon them, but should confine himself entirely to the question at present before the House, which was indeed of itself sufficient to occupy their undivided attention. He would therefore ask, whether the mode of proceeding, to which, after repeated adjournments, it was now proposed to adhere, was, in the first place, consistent with the forms of the House; and, in the second place, whether it was calculated, if it was necessary—and if it was not necessary, it certainly was not calculated—to
343332ex-parte3130The Marquis of Lansdowne
 explained. In reply to the noble marquis, he could state that, in 1703, a message had been sent by queen Anne to both Houses of Parliament, on the discovery of a conspiracy to restore the Stuart family. That House had then examined all the papers, with a view to the best steps that could be taken. There was a great distinction between the legislative and judicial powers of that House. In 1720, the Commons had taken steps respecting transactions connected with the South Sea company, and the repayment of money advanced in that speculation. The Lords also had passed a bill of pains and disqualifications, but the Lords had originated that proceeding. The distinction between the legislative and judicial functions of that House was often very nice; but that House could do many things in originating such a proceeding which they could not do in its progress.The Lord Chancellor
"Et quorum pars magna fui,"dulcissima"——Quæque ipse dulcissima35 said, that he certainly could not agree with his noble friend as to the propriety of withdrawing himself from the committee. It was with great regret that he differed from his noble friends upon this occasion, but he had not arrived at his present conclusions without duly considering the subject, examining it in all its bearings, and looking to all its possible results. He thought no reasonable man could object to the conduct of his majesty's ministers upon this occasion. They had not lost a moment in bringing the subject before the consideration of parliament, and the House had lost no time in taking up the royal charge, and appointing a secret committee for its investigation. He thought it right to pay a decent respect to the persons who had brought forward
"Et quorum pars magna fui,"dulcissima"——Quæque ipse dulcissima35The Earl of Donoughmore
37 said, it was with great regret that be felt himself compelled to differ with his noble friends upon this most important question. He could assure their lordships that he felt most anxious that the illustrious person accused should receive a fair trial; but be was anxious also that this House should do its duty to another illustrious person, who had felt it due to his dignity and honour to bring forward this accusation. He agreed with the opinion which had been stated to the House by the learned lord on the woolsack, as to the impossibility of proceeding in this case upon the statute of Edw. 3rd. If the illustrious personage were guilty of high treason, she could only be so in consequence of her participation in that offence, and because there were no accessaries in this offence. The maxim that "Accessorius sequitur naturam sui principalis," was in this case most immediately applicable. The queen had, he observed, sent counsel to the bar to ask that opportunity should be afforded to allow her to send for witnesses before any inquiry was instituted. But he would ask, how it was possible for her majesty, or her counsel to determine what witnesses it might be necessary for them to adduce, until it was known what charges were to be preferred? If witnesses were sent for before the result of the proposed inquiry were communicated to the queen's counsel, they might be subject to the inconvenience of collecting witnesses upon points or charges, which, according to that result, were not at all to be brought forward. Would any man then maintain, that it would be better for the object of the learned counsel to have the delay they required granted now by the House, rather than after the report of the secret committee should be made known to them? It appeared to him, indeed, that it would have been wiser on the part of the queen to require that the report of the committee should be brought up before she was called upon to collect evidence for her defence against any charges which that report might recommend. Such an appeal, he could not help thinking much more advisable than that which had been made to the House. With respect to the motion of his noble friend, he felt himself called upon to vote against it. He had now, for about forty years, had the honour of a seat in that House, during which he had frequently been a member
37The Earl of Lauderdale
 in explanation, said, that in alluding to the postponement proposed in the House of Commons, he had never intended to propose or recommend a similar measure to their lordships. He did not intend to say, that secret committees ought not to be appointed in certain cases, but that the present was not one of those cases, since he was quite certain that the question could be disposed of without having recourse to a secret committee.The Marquis of Lansdowne,
 declared that he could not abstain from expressing his intention to vote for the motion, while he was not at all inclined to oppose inquiry upon this subject. On the contrary, indeed, he was an advocate for inquiry, but it was for such a public and open inquiry as was agreeable to those principles of British justice which he had always been taught to venerate, and not for any mode of inquiry which was inconsistent with those principles, and especially when the party accused so strongly objected to it. The queen, he could readily suppose, might see reasons for this objection, of the propriety of which the House was not competent to decide, and particularly from her knowledge of the machinations employed against her; and therefore, feeling it his duty to yield to her appeal, he would vote for the motion.Lord Belhaven
474645ex-parte44Si est ea gloria floreat.4342lex consuetudo parliamenti4140quid est39 said, that in giving his vote, as he intended, for the motion of his noble friend, he should make no promise as to what course he might ultimately think it proper to support. He had from the outset disapproved of the course which ministers had taken, from a conviction of the irregularity and inconvenience of their proceedings; and of that irregularity and inconvenience many of the ministers themselves had since become fully sensible. Nay, two of the noble lords who were appointed on the secret committee, had that night stated their intention not to attend that committee from an impression of its irregularity. The reasons stated by those noble lords were no doubt different, but their resolution was quite the same. Those noble lords, whom he was proud to call his friends, had, throughout life, rendered such services to the cause of justice and liberty, that no one was more ready to acknowledge those services than himself, and especially with respect to his noble and learned friend behind him (lord Erskine). He therefore regretted to differ from his noble and learned friend upon this subject on a former occasion. Since that occasion, however, his noble and learned friend had this night observed, that the case under consideration was materially altered, and therefore his opinion had undergone a change. The case, had, indeed, been altered, as appeared from the proceedings elsewhere. He would not refer to the conduct of the other House of Parliament, to which two noble lords on the other side had observed it would be irregular to advert, although each of those noble lords were themselves betrayed into that irregularity. But he would refer to that which was matter of public notoriety, namely, the negotiation which had taken place between two of the king's ministers and the legal advisers of the queen. Their
474645ex-parte44Si est ea gloria floreat.4342lex consuetudo parliamenti4140quid est39Lord Holland
 said, after what had been stated by two noble lords in the course of the debate, it was necessary that he should declare his feelings on this occasion. The noble mover, who adverted to the list of those appointed to go into this inquiry, objected to the name of the archbishop of Canterbury, because, as the noble lord stated, he was the responsible adviser of the Crown with respect to the alteration of the Liturgy; and another noble lord was of opinion that the archbishop of Canterbury was the constitutional adviser of the Crown on that point. Now, he believed that neither of the noble lords was correct on this question. If they were correct, they would have the goodness to show where their authority lay. Was it in the act of parliament? The only act he was acquainted with on the subject was the act of uniformity. Was their authority to be found there? He must conclude that unless they pointed out the ground on which their statement rested, it was a gratuitous assertion. He would tell the noble lords that he was willing to relinquish his station on the committee in question, if the noble lords could point out such grounds as would be satisfactory to the House, and which would not impeach his integrity as a public or a private man.The Archbishop of Canterbury
 explained, that nothing was farther from his intention than to impeach the integrity of the right reverend prelate. But as that right reverend prelate conveyed the acts of the king as head of the church to the clergy of England, and as there was no act done by the king in that or any other character, for which there was not some ostensible and responsible adviser, he considered the right reverend prelate as responsible for the alteration in the Liturgy.Lord Holland
 said, the alteration of the Liturgy was the act of the king's confidential servants who had advised it, and who were prepared to justify its legality and its expediency. The act was done in council, and the lords of the council who were present were perhaps strictly responsible; but in the practice since the Revolution, the acts done in council were preceded by advice on the part of the king's confidential servants, who were thus the peculiar objects of responsibility. The archbishop merely acted ministerially, and was obliged to execute the orders in council.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he did not rise to make any remarks, but to state, that as the advice of the ministers to omit the name of the queen from the Liturgy was the cause of the present embarrassment of parliament, if no other lord, better qualified to do it justice, took up the subject, he should call the attention of the House specially to it.The Earl of Darnley
 again explained. The alteration of the Liturgy was made by the declaration of the king in council. It might be a question whether all the lords present at the council were not strictly responsible, but as in reality the declaration was made in all cases by the advice of the committee of the council, generally called the cabinet, they were the persons on whom parliament would fix the responsibility. As for the right reverend prelate, he, in communicating the order to his clergy, had no discretion left him.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, the right reverend prelate, in communicating the order in council to his clergy, acted ministerially, and might not be for that act responsible. But in signing it as a privy councillor, he unquestionably made himself responsible; for the parliamentary power of impeachment was held not only to check pernicious advisers, but to deter any persons from executing illegal commands. Though, therefore, the cabinet ministers were the persons more peculiarly responsible, yet no one who had lent himself to the execution by his signature could be exempt from responsibility. In some cases, indeed, it was necessary to address the Crown to learn who were its advisers, as in the case of a negative given to bills, for then no signature appeared; but to acts of the council there were the signatures of the councillors ["Not always," from lord Liverpool, "not in this case"] at least there was an entry in the council books of the lords present.Earl Grey
151413Tanta mali moles, tantoque potentior arte est.Scire ratis rector; nec quid jubeatve, vetetve:Ipse pavet; nec se qui sit status, ipse fatctur12111098765**4ex-parte,3 said, he felt himself placed, in consequence of the noble lord's persisting in this measure, under the painful necessity of calling their lordships' attention to the grounds on which he proposed to submit to their consideration a motion for abandoning the course they had already adopted. Before, however, he proceeded to state the reasons which he hoped might induce their lordships to rescind the order they had made for the secret committee, he thought some apology must appear due from him for venturing to make such a proposition. It might seem, that, in taking on himself the task of persuading their lordships to abandon that course which they had chosen after mature deliberation, which the able arguments of his noble friend had not been able to prevent them from adopting, which they had repeatedly refused to alter, and which they had persevered in notwithstanding various adjournments, he manifested no little presumption in sup-
151413Tanta mali moles, tantoque potentior arte est.Scire ratis rector; nec quid jubeatve, vetetve:Ipse pavet; nec se qui sit status, ipse fatctur12111098765**4ex-parte,3Earl Grey
 wishing to spare their lordships the pain of unnecessary discussion on a subject on which it was most desirable that discussion should be avoided, rose to ask the noble earl opposite, whether any thing had occurred since yesterday to induce him to delay the meeting of the secret committee on the papers relating to the conduct of her majesty, which had been so often suspended, and which was ordered to sit to-morrow.Earl Grey,
 disclaimed the slightest intention personally to offend the right reverend prelate. In bringing forward the petition of her majesty, he had observed that some of the noble lords who formed the secret committee, had in some way or other already formed an opinion. That the ministers who had laid the bag on the table must have formed an opinion was not denied; but it was doubted whether the right reverend prelate was pledged on the subject, or whether he was the responsible adviser of the omission of the queen's name in the Liturgy. The noble lords on the other side might assume the responsibility, but they could not divest the person who was legally responsible of that character. If the archbishop submitted the alteration to the king, and returned to the council and declared the king's will, he was the king's adviser; and though not removable, was impeachable for bad advice.Lord Dacre
2423 said, he wished to give his opinion on the question at that early period of the debate, because he was the only person on that side of the House who had originally voted for a secret committee. His opinion with respect to the propriety of that vote was not since changed, but he differed from the proceedings of the noble lords opposite in many respects, so far as to render it impossible for him to continue longer on the committee. When the committee was first appointed he certainly felt great reluctance to be nominated as one of its members. Certainly he did not think, that according to the statute of Edward 3rd, there could be any impeachment. The House of Commons might, it was true, impeach; but their lordships were the judges, and would not consent to any proceeding which the law of England would not justify. He looked, however, to probable contingencies; and he thought then as he thought now, that it was not probable the House of Commons would prefer any impeachment for misdemeanor. But what was the state of things at present?—It was impossible when the committee was nominated to foresee the turn which affairs had taken. For the House of Commons, generally, and for many members of it individually, he entertained great respect. But he confessed his surprise at the proceeding they had adopted. He had already stated his opinion on the omission of her majesty's name in the Liturgy. When he looked at the act of Uniformity, he doubted if any power existed in the Crown to direct that omission. The words in the act were very strong. They stated, "That the names should be altered and changed, and suited to the occasion." It was evidently intended, however, only that the names should be changed, but not that the individuals should be omitted. In the address which had been voted to her majesty by the House of Commons, it was said,—"That this House, fully sensible of the objections which the queen
2423Lord Erskine
38 regretted that on this occasion he was called upon to differ from those with whom he usually concurred; but from a reverence for those principles of British jurisprudence which, since he was a boy at school, he had been taught to hold sacred, he felt it his duty to vote for the motion. He could never, indeed, allow himself to assent to the violation of
38Lord Bulkeley
141140 brought up the report of the committee on Foreign Trade. In moving that it be laid on the table, he trusted their lordships would excuse him if he detained them some moments by a few observations which he thought the more necessary to be now made, as he did not mean to make this report the subject of any other motion except that it be printed. He was induced to adopt this course, not only because any bill connected with the financial situation and revenues of the country would come with more advantage to the subject from the other House, but because he thought it better that any measure of this kind should originate with those who possessed the best means of giving it effect
141140The Marquis of Lansdowne
 expressed a hope that some legislative measure should, if possible, be brought in this session on some of the objects recommended in the report. It was impossible for any member of the committee, who attended in his place, not to feel the duty of urging this. There were two points to the introduction of a measure, to embrace which he thought no objection could be made. They related to an alteration of the mode of levying the duties on timber. The first was a recommendation to levy the duty on timber by the cubic contents of the foot; the second was, to make the duty on timber which had undergone any process of manufacture higher than on timber in the log. In reference to the adoption of those enlightened principles which were recommended by the committee, it was with great satisfaction he could state his conviction that in some important instances their introduction would be attended with no inconvenience. It had, for example, been ascertained by the committee, that British ships were navigated more cheaply than any other vessels in the world, No injury therefore could arise to the shipping interest from any alteration which it might be thought fit to make in favour of foreign trade. Those who had petitioned most earnestly for the continuance of the present system with respect to the duties on timber, would therefore, if not benefited, at least not be injured, by any alteration which the legislature might think fit to make on that subject.Lord Ellenborough
 said, that in consequence of the report which their lordships had just heard, it was incumbent on him to give notice, that he should tomorrow bring in a bill, founded upon the report, the object of which he should then explain to their lordships. At the same time all facilities would be given to the illustrious personage whose conduct was implicated so much, for the purposes of defence or exculpation in every way. He concluded by moving, that their lordships be summoned for to-morrow.The Earl of Liverpool
174 rose merely to say a few words in answer to what had fallen from the noble earl. The doctrine advanced by him was, that ministers had finally seen the queen's conduct in a different light from what they had done at the commencement, because they now advised inquiry, whereas they formerly showed a willingness to compromise. Now, he had not the least difficulty in maintaining that, even on the assumption of the possibility of proving every charge against the queen which had been made, his majesty's ministers had done right in offering to agree to an adjustment without a trial. He would say, that had she remained abroad, the evils attending a compromise would not have been so great as those that might be anticipated from instituting proceedings against her; and he entertained this opinion in common with ninety-nine out of a hundred of the nation. Undoubtedly, it might be said, that, if charges existed, they ought to be proved or dispelled. This, as a general maxim, might be correct; but circumstances might be such as to render the application of it
174The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that the House had already concurred in the propriety of proceeding as his majesty's ministers had recommended, without knowing any of the particulars, but merely having before them the general charges. He concurred in all the vote9 that had been given for adjournment, in order that time might be afforded for adjustment, and he did so with great satisfaction. He wished the question not to be brought forward if it could have been prevented, because he thought it would affect the honour of the Crown, and the peace and tranquillity of the country; but when he found that all attempts at compromise had been unavailing, he as sincerely agreed in the necessity of pursuing the inquiry. The proposed duty had therefore devolved upon the committee, which duty it had now fulfilled; and if he might be allowed to say any thing concerning that committee, he would mention that the report on the table expressed its unanimous opinion on the documents laid before it.The Marquis of Buckingham
l. could not allow some of the observations which had fallen from the noble marquis to pass unnoticed. It was with pain that he heard the noble marquis attempt to make the House accomplices in the proceedings of ministers—it was with pain that he saw an endeavour made to throw the responsibility of the inconsistent conduct of ministers on a majority of their lordships; but when the noble marquis went a little farther, and wished to implicate them likewise in the negotiations that had intervened, he went too far. The majority of the House stood acquitted, both of having preferred charges against her majesty, and of having attempted to compromise those charges. The noble earl had stated in loud and lofty language, that he had his reasons for believing, that inquiry, which was not necessary if her majesty had remained out of England, became necessary as soon as she returned; but he had not specified those reasons. He merely gave his opinion without producing any grounds for it; and he had forgotten that her majesty was not only to escape a trial if she remained abroad, but was to receive 50,000l.Lord Holland
172 could not admit the justice of the noble earl's comparison of the report on the table to the verdict of a grand jury. Before a grand jury found a bill, they heard a complete body of testimony against the accused. He would ask the noble earl whether the committee had examined such witnesses as a grand jury must examine before they sanctioned an accusation? Were the witnesses brought before the committee as they must have been into a grand jury-room? There was another subject, however, on which he thought it necessary to say a few words. He wished to know whether it really was the intention of the noble lord opposite to shorten the duration of the present session, in order to afford an opportunity for the exhibition of a splendid pageant, which would at present be very ill-timed. He was aware that the coronation was an occasion on which oaths were interchanged between the sovereign and his people, and therefore he
172The Earl of Carnarvon
 was afraid that nothing but mischief could result from the report laid on the table, and sincerely wished that the proceedings had been avoided. He had before alluded to the measure of the omission of her majesty's name in the Liturgy, the injustice of which was so glaring. After her majesty had been prayed for during twenty-five years as princess of Wales, the refusing to pray for her as queen was quite unaccountable. How did it happen that she, who was worthy to be prayed for on the 29th of January, became all at once an unworthy object on the 30th, the very next day? The conduct of ministers in this respect could not be exculpated.The Earl of Darnley
l.173 said, there was one point on which he was most anxious that he should not be misunderstood. The noble earl had stated, that no part of the conduct of his majesty's advisers had given them more satisfaction than that which they had pursued in the present case. He must, however, say, that if those advisers had before them evidence of the queen
l.173Earl Grey
170169 would, in the present situation of the proceedings, abstain from saying much that occurred to him upon this most important subject, the difficulty and danger to be apprehended from which was, in his opinion, increased in an immense degree by the report now on the table. When he before objected to the course which the noble lords opposite proposed to pursue, he stated then, and he now repeated, that his only object was to obtain for the parties concerned strict and impartial justice. He had now again to enter his protest against the injustice of a proceeding which did not leave the case of the person accused in an unprejudiced state. The charges now made were not merely brought forward by the ministers of the Crown, but came before their lordships through the medium of a committee of their lordships' House. It was therefore important that their lordships should consider the situation in which they were placed. Though the noble lord had alluded to the introduction of a legislative proceeding, it must be anticipated that their lordships would have to act judicially in the course of the inquiry. They ought, then, to come impartially to that part of their duty. The charge set forth, on the authority of the report, was that of an
170169Earl Grey
171 thought that the noble earl might have abstained from saying any thing until his noble friend had had the opportunity, to-morrow, of explaining the course of proceeding which he thought should be adopted. He could assure their lordships that he as deeply regretted the necessity of the proceeding, and as anxiously desired to avoid agitating the public mind, as the noble earl or any other person; but he thought it requisite to make one or two observations on what had fallen from the noble earl. He had accused his majesty's government with having committed a great act of injustice by the course which had been pursued. If that course was injustice, their lordships were completely accomplices in it. The arguments of the noble earl and his friends were stated to be unanswerable; but those who were convinced by those unanswerable arguments had not thought fit that the public should know how large their numbers were. As to the inconvenience to the accused person, of which so much had been said, how was it to be avoided? Every regard had been had to the strictest impartiality in laying the proceedings before the committee. But if any member of that House had risen to propose a measure similar to that which was the object of the committee, would their lordships have allowed him to open his mouth? When the call from the accused person for trial had been so strongly made, there was no other mode of proceeding left. Before the call was made, the committee had been appointed, and then their lordships did not think it consistent with propriety or justice to change their course. But it was said, his majesty's ministers were highly blameable for not having themselves instituted a proceeding like that which it was now proposed to institute on the recommendation of the committee. And yet what the noble earl contended ought to have been done before, he now wished to delay; and alleged that to proceed would be dangerous to the tranquillity of the country. He could assure the House for himself, that if there were any part of the conduct of his majesty's ministers to which they could look back with more particular satisfaction than another, he believed it to be that which had been employed in endeavours to avoid, by some compromise, the public discussion of the present sub-
171The Earl of Harrowby
168 rose and said, that as chairman of the Secret Committee appointed to examine the Papers referred to the House by his majesty's message, relating to the conduct of the queen, he was commanded to present the Report of the Committee to the House. The noble earl moved that it be read, which being agreed to—168The Earl of Harrowby
195 said, he had a petition to present relative to an act of parliament, which, having now ceased, he might without scruple describe as most unconstitutional. There were points contained in this petition to which he wished to direct their lordships' most serious attention. Besides stating broad constitutional grounds against the measure, the petitioners urged particular reasons for not passing the act at the present moment—reasons which showed how often it happens, that when governments deviate from the strict line of constitutional principle, they were very apt to involve themselves in embarrassment and difficulty. He therefore trusted that their lordships would not pass the bill at all if it came before them; but if they did proceed with it, he hoped they would introduce a clause to secure against its operation all persons called as witnesses on either side in the important proceeding upon which they were about to enter. This he should think would be but just and fair at any time or in any case; but how much more so when the proceedings in which their lordships were about to be engaged were of a judicial nature, and had for their object acts alleged to have been committed abroad? The petitioners stated, that the act, if passed would put it in the power of ministers to send out of the kingdom all foreigners who might be able to give evidence, or whom they might suppose to be able to give evidence, in favour of her majesty, and to give protection to all who might now be disposed to give evidence against her, or hereafter be brought forward for that purpose. He thought the particular objection highly important, and the constitutional ground on which the petitioners prayed that the bill might not pass would surely obtain their lordships' most anxious consideration. It was necessary that all ground of suspicion of partiality should be removed. Hostile as he was to the act, he was most desirous that it should be rejected; but if it were entertained by their lordships, he thought
195Lord Holland
196 could see no ground for such an application as that which was now made, merely on a notice for the introduction of a bill. It really appeared to him, that the advice which must in this instance have been given to the illustrious petitioner was of a most extraordinary nature. She applied to be heard in the present stage by counsel; but their lordships were as yet in no stage whatever of the proceeding. A commit-
196The Earl of Liverpool
 could not admit that the situation or rank of the petitioner afforded any reason for their lordships departing from their usual course. Whether a petition came from a princess, or from one of the lowest subjects in the kingdom, their lordships were bound to act according to the principles of equal justice. He therefore thought that the House would best perform its duty by refusing to extend any facility in the present case, which they would not be inclined to grant to another person under similar circumstances. He would vote against the petition for this reason—that it asked that which, if prayed for by any other individual in the country, would not be granted.Lord Ellenborough
200 declared, that he entered on this question, as he would on every other connected with the present proceedings, with an impartiality which could not be affected by any thing that might have occurred in the late investigation. He had heard a great deal on that and former occasions of objection to the inquiry by a secret committee. On this subject it was not his intention to say a word more than this—that he did not think their lordships could have acted rightly without adopting that measure, and that ministers would have violated their duty had they not proposed it. With regard to the present question, he would be glad to know where, in the history of parliament, it was to be found that counsel were ever admitted to be heard against a measure of some kind or other not yet submitted to their lordships, but which some noble lord was expected to propose. Would their lordships consider for a moment what would be the consequence of such a practice? He did not go the length of saying that a bill must on every
200The Lord Chancellor
202201 maintained, that all the inconvenience which had been felt, and the threatened injustice which was now complained of, had arisen from the extraordinary course of proceeding proposed by the ministers of the Crown, and acceded to by their lordships. Every word uttered by the noble and learned lord on the woolsack, against the agreeing to the prayer of this petition, applied with much greater force to a proceeding already adopted, namely, the hearing of counsel on a former occasion, in consequence of an application from her majesty. For what was the nature of that application, and what was its tendency? The noble and learned lord had maintained, that the present petition had a tendency to intercept the course of their proceedings. Now, if there ever was an
202201The Marquis of Lansdowne
206205204 said, that the noble and learned lord who had just sat down had quite mistaken the objects of the petition. They were twofold. The petition prayed, first, that her majesty might be heard by counsel against certain allegations in a report before their lordships; and secondly, that she might be allowed to communicate certain weighty matters connected with her future defence. He admitted that this was an extraordinary proceeding, and that a compliance with the petition would be a departure from the usual forms of their lordships' House; but when this was stated was it to be forgotten that their forms had recently, in this case, been violated? The noble earl opposite had said, that the report on the table could not properly be known beyond the walls of the House; but was this an answer to her majesty, who, having been informed of its nature, prayed to be heard by her counsel against its allegations? He knew that, strictly speaking, nothing could be known or taken notice of out of parliament which took place within it; but was this rule always or even generally, observed? When an impeachment was brought against any noble lord before the other House of Parliament, the party was allowed, on application, to be heard in his defence; and it was never pleaded, in bar of his being so heard, that he must necessarily be ignorant of the existence of the charge. There was here a charge against her majesty in the report of a secret committee. If the House were to follow the strict rule in one case, they ought to do it in all; and he would engage to show precedent for granting the prayer of this petition, if the noble lords opposite would show him a charge of criminality on the report of a secret committee. The whole course of proceeding in this case, was of an anomalous and unprecedented nature; and when rules were violated to the prejudice of her majesty, it was not asking too much to require the same indulgence for her defence. A noble lord had said, that justice should be administered with an
206205204Lord Holland
 concurred with his noble friend, that the House had placed itself in a situation of some difficulty, by agreeing, in the former instance, to hear counsel at the bar. But there was this difference between the present case, and that in which the petition was assented to; that then there was a proceeding pending, whereas now there was none. In the former instance their lordships had appointed a secret committee, they had suspended the sitting of that committee, and in the interval her majesty had applied to be heard by counsel, against the proceeding. It was possible that their lordships might, after the arguments of counsel, have prevented the meeting of the secret committee, and voted that they should proceed no further. But what was their situation now? The committee had made their report, and the noble earl had given notice of a bill founded on that report: in the interval there was no proceeding. Suppose, then, that the counsel were permitted to plead, on what proceeding could the House divide, after having heard the arguments? They would not determine that the noble lord should not bring in his bill. What then could they do the moment after counsel had withdrawn, which they could not have done without hearing one word of the argument? Her majesty did not pray to be heard against the proceeding. There was none before the House. When the proceeding was instituted, then was the time to make any application connected with her defence, and God forbid that he, or any one, should object to grant any thing, which might be necessary to her defence, or, if possible her justification.The Marquis of Buckingham
207 contended, that the report of the committee was a proceeding of the most serious nature, on which her majesty had a right to present a petition. The situation in which they stood was one in which they had no analogy to guide them, and they were placed in that situation by a series of measures which appeared to him objectionable in many respects. But how did they stand at present? After referring the case of the queen to a secret committee, her majesty had petitioned to be heard by counsel. He knew nothing of the facts; he wished much that it was
207The Earl of Darnley
212211210ipse dixit209208 said, that in rising to propose the bill founded on the report of the secret committee, he thought it unnecessary to enter into any statements for the purpose of impressing on their lordships the importance of the measure. The preamble of the bill spoke for itself; and it would undoubtedly be for those who would be employed officially in conducting the prosecution to prove at their lordships' bar the truth of the allegations contained in that bill. Under these circumstances, he should most deeply regret if, in this stage of the proceeding, any thing should take place in that House to create more prejudice in the public mind, or in the minds of their lordships, than must unavoidably arise from the nature of the accusation. With respect to the course of proceeding which had been adopted, he certainly did not feel disposed to revive former discussions; but he must say, after having consulted his noble and learned friend on the woolsack, and after having given the best consideration to the question, that if he had now to retrace the steps he had taken, he knew not how he could move in any other course than that which had been decided on. He knew it had been thrown out that the course of impeachment was open to their lordships. He had then stated what difficulties he conceived to lie in the way of such a proceeding; and, without going over his argument again, it appeared to him to be a matter of grave doubt whether a constitutional impeachment could lie, if he might use the expression, on account of the commission of a crime not recognised by the common law of this country. He thought he said enough to justify government in adopting the course
212211210ipse dixit209208The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that the more he considered the objections against the mode in which they were proceeding, the more he was confirmed in those objections. The bill, he thought, instead of stating generally the criminality imputed to her majesty, should specify the particulars of time and place, in order that she might be enabled to meet the allegations. The preamble, however, did no such thing, and therefore was wanting in that certainty of description which her defence required to be stated. He therefore wished to know, whether the noble earl intended to adopt any other mode of proceeding subsequently, with a view to supply that defect, he wished also to ask, whether any course was in contemplation for supplying her majesty with the names of the witnesses about to be produced against her?Earl Grey
 said, that the second reading of the bill would be the proper time to enter into the discussion. He had no difficulty however in stating, that the specification in the preamble was as particular as any other to which they could refer, and was in all respects sufficient to guide her majesty's defence. With regard to the names of the witnesses, it was unprecedented in the history of parliamentary proceedings to furnish them, while a bill of Pains and Penalties was depending. It was unusual in all proceedings, exept in trials for high treason; but as her majesty had claims to the utmost indulgence, sufficient lime would be allowed her to select her evidence, and this would do away the only plausible ground that existed for demanding a list of the witnesses.The Earl of Liverpool
 suggested that the noble lord might obtain his object, without resorting to a course which was contrary to the whole analogy of their proceedings, and promised that if a petition was presented to-morrow, the bill being in progress he would not then object to it.The Earl of Liverpool
 assented, and did not press the motion.Lord Dacre
 thought, that whatever course was taken under the present proceeding, it must be attended with great disadvantage to her majesty. The commencement of a prosecution, grounded upon evidence which could not be met for a considerable time after the evidence had produced its impression, was unfavourable to the end of justice. It would be more conducive to that end if the whole could be postponed until there was an opportunity for proceeding with the accusation and defence together. In all Divorce bills the accused party had the advantage of the knowledge to be derived from previous proceedings. The noble earl had alluded to the management of the case at the bar; but he wished to know by what authority, or at whose direction, any person could appear at that bar to conduct the prosecution?Earl Grey
 said, that the attorney-general might be called upon by the authority of the House either to appear himself, or to provide some person to conduct it.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that from the noble lord's statement it would appear as if the House itself had assumed the character of a prosecutor in a case which it was about to try.Earl Grey
 stated, that the House had actually appointed counsel in other cases, and there could be no doubt that they would see justice done between the parties.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he was aware that the House had appointed counsel in other cases, in that for instance of the Berkeley case, but here was a case of prosecution for which he had not heard any precedent. He was as far as the noble lord from suspecting the justice of the House; but, it was not only necessary that they should be just, but that they should appear above suspicion.Earl Grey
216 defended the pro-
216The Lord Chancellor
 remarked, that the attorney-general was a member of another House, and might therefore be objected to as the manager of a prosecution in the House of Lords, upon which he would have to pronounce hereafter in the House of Commons.Lord Holland
 said, that though the order was given to the attorney-general, he would not be obliged to appear personally, but might send some other person, as had occurred in many cases.The Earl of Liverpool
199198 admitted that the question under consideration was one of some difficulty, but he reminded their lordships that that difficulty arose out of the extraordinary course of proceeding which they had thought fit to sanction on this unhappy occasion. In the sentiment expressed by the noble lord who spoke last, that it was the duty of that House to administer impartial. and equal justice to all persons, whether high or low, he most sincerely concurred; but at the same time he must observe, that the present was a case so peculiar in its circumstances, that ordinary rules did not apply to it. Her majesty was arraigned by a committee appointed by their lordships on charges unheard of in modern times. He must ask, then, whether the particular circumstances of such a case did not require particular attention on the part of their lordships? At the same time he was far from proposing that an undue advantage should be extended to her majesty. All that he desired was, that she should not come before them under any disadvantage from the course of proceeding they had adopted. And here let him ask, in what situation her majesty stood? Their lordships were not informed of the particular object of the bill which the noble earl was about to introduce; but he would suppose that it wight be a bill for the dissolution of the
199198Earl Grey
197 was aware that he was placed in a difficult situation when he offered the petition to their lordships; for, as he was not acquainted with the circumstances on which the application was founded, it was not in his power to state particular grounds for inducing their lordships to grant the prayer of the petition. He was, therefore, obliged to confine himself to general reasons, or to suppositions. The noble earl had made it an objection to the application, that her majesty had no regular means of being acquainted with their lordships' proceedings. Now, though no regular communication had been made, was it not a sufficient ground for presenting a petition, when an individual of high station, like her majesty, heard of such a step being intended as the bill of which the noble earl had given notice? If her majesty thought it necessary to make some statements which she believed it would be important to her interests should now be heard, would their lordships refuse her prayer? He had stated that he was not acquainted with the reasons of her majesty's application; but he would put a case hypothetically. He I would suspose—but he begged to be understood that he had no information whatever on the subject—that her majesty wished to submit to their lordships, by counsel, reasons why the proceeding against her should not be by bill The noble lord had argued that the period for considering her majesty's application would be when the bill was on the table.; but if the ground of the application was what he supposed, the proper time would then be passed. Her majesty might have strong grounds for preferring a judicial to a legislative proceeding. Considering,
197Lord Dacre
 again stated the two objects of the petition, namely, first, to repel the charge in the report; and, 2dly, to state certain weighty matters necessary for the future defence of her majesty. Thinking that her majesty's counsel ought now to be heard in support of these points, he would move that they be now called in.Lord Dacre
 said, he held in his hand a petition from her majesty. Her majesty expressed her surprise at the nature of the document on their lordships table. She also stated, that she had a variety of weighty matters to urge for their lordships consideration, and that it was most important that she should be hoard in this stage by counsel. He should merely remark, that when her majesty stated that it was necessary for her defence that she should be heard at this period, he did not think it would be becoming in their lordships to refuse her prayer. He would add, that he had been assured from a quarter, the authority of which he could not doubt, that to allow her majesty to be now heard by counsel, instead of delaying, would greatly tend to expedite the proceedings in this very lamentable case. He moved that the petition be read. It was as follows:—Lord Dacre
203 apprehended that there was a great difference between the circumstances in which the last application had been received, and those which attended the present. In the former case, there was a proceeding before the House which her majesty prayed might be abandoned—in the present, there was none. But what was the prayer of the petition? It was that the queen might be heard by counsel, to state certain facts necessary for her future defence. It was not for her present defence that she was to make these statements, nor did they relate to any proceeding on a specific charge. If, then, their lordships should agree to hear counsel on an application so indefinite, how could their lordships limit their arguments? They might go on to any length—they might talk of every thing or any
203Lord Redesdale
"The Queen has heard, with inexpressible astonishment, that a bill, conveying charges, and intended to degrade her and to dissolve her marriage with the King, has been brought by the first minister of the King into the House of Lords, where her Majesty has no counsel or other officer to assert her rights. The only alleged foundation for the bill is the report of a secret committee, proceeding solely on papers submitted to them, and before whom no single witness was examined. The Queen has been further informed, that her counsel last night were refused a hearing at the bar of the House of Lords, at that stage of the proceeding when it was most material that they should be heard, and that a list of the witnesses, whose names are known to her accusers, is to be refused to her. Under such circumstances, the Queen doubts, whether any other course is left to her, but to protest in the most solemn manner against the whole of the proceeding; but she is anxious to make one more effort to obtain justice, and therefore desires that her counsel may be admitted to state her claims at the bar of the House of Lords.""CAROLINE REGINA: presented the following petition from her Majesty:—
"The Queen has heard, with inexpressible astonishment, that a bill, conveying charges, and intended to degrade her and to dissolve her marriage with the King, has been brought by the first minister of the King into the House of Lords, where her Majesty has no counsel or other officer to assert her rights. The only alleged foundation for the bill is the report of a secret committee, proceeding solely on papers submitted to them, and before whom no single witness was examined. The Queen has been further informed, that her counsel last night were refused a hearing at the bar of the House of Lords, at that stage of the proceeding when it was most material that they should be heard, and that a list of the witnesses, whose names are known to her accusers, is to be refused to her. Under such circumstances, the Queen doubts, whether any other course is left to her, but to protest in the most solemn manner against the whole of the proceeding; but she is anxious to make one more effort to obtain justice, and therefore desires that her counsel may be admitted to state her claims at the bar of the House of Lords.""CAROLINE REGINA:Lord Dacre
 observed, that it was a matter of infinite importance that the practice of their lordships' House should be regulated by strict and invariable principles. The petition did not explain on what points her majesty wished to be heard by counsel. The ordinary course was, for counsel to be heard upon the second reading of a bill, and when the evidence to be brought forward was explained; but he believed this was the first time that ever it was proposed that counsel should address their lordships upon circumstances not specified, and when there was no evidence before them. If counsel were to he heard, he thought that they must be required to explain what were the points to which their address was intended to apply. If they were not so limited, their address might apply to matters of fact which could have no concern with the defence. The question was not, therefore, whether counsel should be called in, but whether they should not be confined by an instruction of the House if they were called in.The Lord Chancellor
 said, the proper course would be, either immediately to agree to instruct the counsel, or otherwise to order them to be called in, and asked on what points they meant to address the House. If they meant to argue that the preamble of the bill was not sufficiently detailed, that would be an intelligible ground; if they meant to contend that a list of witnesses ought to be furnished to her majesty, that would be an intelligible ground; if they meant to propose to expedite the proceedings, or to delay them, all these would be intelligible grounds: but he could not consent to their being called in without some limitation. The hearing counsel at all at the present stage was quite unprecedented. If therefore their lordships, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, agreed to hear them, it must be after calling on them to fix precisely the points on which they were to address the House. As the noble baron had moved that they be called, he should therefore move that they be asked what points they meant to urge.The Earl of Liverpool
232 then stated, that he was desired by the House to ask upon what points the counsel intended to address their lordships, and, after they
232The Lord Chancellor
233 observed, that he was commanded by her majesty to appear at their lordships bar, in consequence of the proceeding instituted against her, and that he had several points to urge in behalf of his royal client. Her majesty had last night been served by the gentleman usher of the black rod with a copy of a bill, presented to their lordships, which contained charges of the gravest nature, and her majesty could not suffer the shortest interval to elapse without stating her objections to the whole proceeding thus instituted by bill. Their lordships, he hoped, would also suffer him to add his regret that the request made by her majesty yesterday to be heard against this proceeding was not complied with. It was also the wish of her majesty's counsel to object to the course of proceeding on account of the relative situation in which their lordships and her majesty stood with respect to proceedings which it might still be necessary to adopt. They were also directed to address some observations to their lordships, touching the mode of proceeding, and to the time; touching any delay, also, which might be proposed, as to whether that delay should take place at the present, or be interposed in some subsequent period of the proceeding. It was also their wish to declare certain matters on the part of her majesty, which they thought calculated to have an important effect on the proceedings before their lordships; and he had to add, that the present was the stage of the proceedings in which it was proper for them to state to their lordships those matters to which he had thus generally adverted. They begged further to observe, that it was matter of very serious detriment to her majesty that their lordships should have rejected the prayer of her petition of yesterday, and refused to hear her counsel before the bill to which her petition of this day referred had been brought in and read a first time. This appeared to her majesty the more extraordinary when the ground of that refusal was considered. It was said that a report on which a bill was to be founded, had been made in a certain place; but that of the existence of any such proceeding her majesty could have no knowledge. Her majesty and her counsel were held to be quite ignorant of this proceeding, though every body in the metropolis but themselves
233Mr. Brougham
 thought it quite impossible for their lordships to permit counsel to address them in the way proposed. It was his most anxious desire that strict justice should be done, in this as in every other case; but if certain matters were to be stated at the bar, to show why this proceeding could not be adopted, they must either be matters of fact or matters of law; if matters of fact, as the circumstances of the evidence were not yet known, they might be irrelevant; and if they were points of law, they might have nothing to do with the defence which was to be made against the bill.The Lord Chancellor
234 was sensible of the necessity of adhering to precedent and analogy in their lordships proceedings, but it ought to be recollected, that this was a case for which there was no precedent, and he hoped that it would never form a precedent for any future one. If they were to be guided by precedent, it was impossible for them to find any. Their lordships object ought to be to do substantial justice. The learned lord proposed, in the first place, to limit the hearing of the counsel to the mode of proceeding on the bill; but it should be recollected that the petition objected to proceeding by bill at
234Earl Grey
 did not understand what possible limit there could be to the statement of counsel, if they were allowed to proceed in the way they proposed. To allow them to speak on matters not connected with the defence would be to allow them to speak on every possible subject. He thought the course proposed by his learned friend afforded as great a latitude as could be allowed.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that after a bill of this description was read a first time, the nature of the evidence on which it was founded must be explained before any noble lord could propose its second reading. Every person who was interested in opposing it would then be entitled to be heard against it; but if counsel were allowed to be heard now in the way proposed, such a proceeding would be neither more nor less than a surrender of all their lordships functions. He therefore put the motion, that the counsel be called in, and instructed to confine their argument to the mode of the proceeding on the bill, and to the time of such proceeding.The Lord Chancellor
 observed, that the real question was, not whether their lordships should hear counsel on the mode of proceeding with regard to the bill, but whether they would hear arguments to induce them to abandon the bill altogether, in order to adopt some other course.The Marquis of Lansdown
 regretted that counsel had not been heard before the bill was introduced. That certainly was the time at which their lordships ought to have taken the objection into consideration. He, however, thought that the hearing should now be granted.Earl Grosvenor
235 could not conceive how their lordships could be asked to hear counsel against the proceeding by bill at this period. When they came to the second reading, counsel might very properly be heard on that point; and if it
235The Earl of Lauderdale
, as a peer of parliament, gave it as his opinion that counsel could be heard on nothing but the mode of' proceeding to be had on the bill, and the time at which the proceedings should take place. When, however, he stated that their lordships ought so to confine the counsel, it was to be understood that he meant the limitation to be without prejudice to any argument which might be urged against the course adopted by bill. Surely, according to every parliamentary principle, their lordships must reject any attempt to tell them what they ought to do in this stage.The Lord Chancellor
 reminded their lordships, that the great point on which her majesty's counsel desired to be heard, was to show that the proceeding by bill was a hardship to his client. If he understood what was likely to be done in the progress of the bill, all the witnesses for the prosecution would be heard at a stage long before any defence could be made. If this was so, the question of proceeding by bill had best be discussed now, because, if there were any hardship in the case, that hardship would occur before the counsel could have an opportunity of stating any thing against it.Lord Holland
 again insisted on the propriety of hearing counsel now against going on with the bill. When they came to the second reading, if it should be shown that the course adopted was wrong, time and labour would be lost, as well as evil done. If counsel were to be heard against the bill at all, this was, on every principle of justice and propriety, the proper time for hearing them. Undoubtedly their lordships could not suffer counsel to obtrude themselves, and to dictate the course of proceedings to be adopted by the House; but that did not prevent their lordships from seriously weighing the reasons which might now be offered against the bill.Earl Grey
236 repeated the reasons on which he thought the counsel ought not to be heard. Were he in a situation to consult his feelings as a man, he would not object to the application which had been made; but, in his situation as a peer of the realm he was bound
236The Lord Chancellor
, her Majesty's Attorney General, then proceeded to address their lordships to the following effect:—His learned friend and himself were totally ignorant of what had occurred in their absence, and therefore their lordships would naturally suppose that they were at a loss to comprehend the exact points to which as they had been told, their argument was to be limited, and the manner in which they were to be tied down in entering upon the important task which they were then called upon to perform. In making the effort which he was then making, with all good faith to comprehend the command which their lordships had just imposed upon him, he should trust to the indulgence of their lordships for his pardon, if, in the discharge of his duty, he happened to misinterpret the order which they had issued, and he therefore begged of their lordships, if he was guilty of any such misinterpretation, to impute it to accident, or rather to misfortune, that he had not caught in its right sense their lordships meaning, and not to any intention on his part (which before God he disclaimed) of offering any observation to their lordships which should in the slightest degree disobey the instructions which they had given him. He gathered from what had been intimated to him, that those instructions commanded him to confine whatever he had himself to urge, or whatever her majesty had commanded him to urge on her behalf, to the manner of proceeding with respect to or upon the bill which had been served upon her majesty last night by the ordinary officer of their lordships; and assuming it to be right to proceed by bill—Mr. Brougham
this—" By thisThe Lord Chancellor.
intra prœsidia?242241240239238237—By this bill? He would take it so; because by that admission their lordships would decide two points in his favour:—first of all, they would determine that the proceedings by bill (to which many heavy and grievous objections might be made, if permission
intra prœsidia?242241240239238237Mr. Brougham.
 here interrupted Mr. Brougham by observing to their lordships, that he thought the learned counsel was transgressing the rules of the House in alluding to what their lordships might be supposed to have done or left undone. He was likewise of opinion, that, in pursuing that line of argument, the learned counsel had not complied with the instructions which had been notified to him as the commands of their lordships. If their lordships thought fit to allow such a-latitude of argument, they certainly had the power to do so; bur, as a peer of parliament, he must say, that he would not sit upon the woolsack to listen to it.The Lord Chancellor
243 then continued.—He would persist in making the attempt to
243Mr. Brougham
—Their lordships were just, and had made their present order for the purpose of continuing so.The Lord Chancellor.
l.245de die in diem.244—As he was not allowed to proceed in the course which he had intended, he should now proceed to show the immediate connexion which existed, between the topics on which he had just been speaking and the point of time to which he had been limited by their lordships. His argument was to prove, that this bill ought to be sent out of doors immediately, and that it could not lie 24 hours upon the table without producing great and imminent danger to the safety of his client. Indeed; he would assert that, unless that bill was discarded by their lordships, no justice could be done to his illustrious client. The line of argument which he was then adopting was perfectly consistent with the instructions of their lordships; for, the more clearly he could show the bill itself to be pregnant with mischief and danger, the more did his argument apply to the time in which this proceeding was to be carried on. As he had been instructed to confine his argument as to the time, he could not help observing, that the light in which he had endeavoured to put this question was one which had struck upon his mind most forcibly; and he therefore felt himself bound to present it to their lordships until he was silenced by their authority. All that he had now to add was, that her majesty desired no delay; that she was most anxious to have the evidence who were to substantiate, or rather to endeavour to substantiate, those foul and false charges against her honour, called without delay to their lordships' bar. He ought perhaps to apologize for applying such language to the 'preamble of a bill which their lordships had allowed to be read a first time; but still his sense of duty informed him that he ought to be allowed to say that those charges were foul, false, and most malignant, since they originated from a report, which, having
l.245de die in diem.244Mr. Brougham.
—My lords, I move that the counsel be ordered to withdraw. [Counsel having withdrawn] I ask the House, whether the counsel has or has not attended to the directions of the House?The Bishop of Exeter.
246 said, that he had never heard a more extraordinary appeal. The counsel had been directed to confine themselves to certain limits, and they proceeded accordingly; but in the midst of the speech a reverend lord had thought fit to rise in his place, and ask, as a matter of information, whether the counsel were obeying the direction of the House? If the reverend lord had formed any opinion
246Lord Holland
248247, having again taken his station at the bar, proceeded:—In adverting to the question of time, he had called upon the House to proceed without delay, and one answer he had anticipated was, that the supporters of the bill would say that they were not yet prepared with their evidence. To this he was endeavouring to reply when he had been interrupted: he was attempting to show that the confidential servants of the Crown were placed in this dilemma—either that they were satisfied that there was some ground, some colour for the accusation, which might be a sufficient reason for not proceeding immediately; or, on the other hand, that they were not ready to go on, because they had been taken by surprise, because the bill had been forced upon them, and because they themselves, utterly disbelieving every tittle of charge against the queen, could not be prepared with testimony to support the preamble. He had ventured humbly, and out of respect to the ministers of the Crown, to assert, that if they had believed, he did not say any material part of the allegations, but any part, however insignificant, they never would have pursued that line of conduct which was now notorious; they never would have consented that her majesty should remain abroad unmolested, without any measure of degradation or divorce, exposing the dignity and honour of the Crown, and the morals of the country where she resided—the first to be lowered, and the last to be contaminated. They had offered her a splendid, a royal revenue; she was to live where she chose, to be announced at foreign courts as the lawful and rightful queen of England; and, above all, the ministers of the Crown
248247Mr. Brougham
255254253252251250249 immediately followed on the same side. In submitting to their lordships those prayers not contained in her majesty's petition, he said, he was placed in a singularly difficult situation between the instructions he had that morning received from his royal client and the directions of the House. It would immediately occur to every man, that when a charge of this weighty nature had received the sanction of a bill—when that bill, which had been once read, imported not only degradation from rank, but the dissolution of an existing marriage—considerations of a very different kind must have thronged into the mind of the party accused from any questions as to the mere mode and time of such a proceeding. He would not conceal from their lordships that he and his learned friend had received from their illustrious-client one especially delegated duty, namely, to press upon the House the absolute necessity, if justice were to be done, that this most extraordinary, most anomalous, and most unprecedented proceeding should be brought to the spcedi-
255254253252251250249Mr. Denman
 said, that some delay would be requisite to make the necessary arrangements for proceeding with the bill. The regular interval between the first and second reading of bills of this kind was a fortnight. He wished that as little delay as possible, consistent with the interests of justice, and the usual course of their lordships proceedings, should intervene in the present case; but some time must be required for making the necessary arrangements, for securing a numerous attendance of their lordships, and the presence of the learned judges. He would propose to fix Monday next as the day on which he would be able to state to their lordships when he thought it would be convenient to read the bill a second time.The Earl of Liverpool
256 could not help making an observation or two on what had fallen from the noble earl. After he had submitted certain papers to their lordships—after he had moved for a committee to examine these papers—after that committee had finished their labours and made their report, and after the noble earl, in consequence of that report, had brought in a bill, which had been read a first time, the illustrious individual whose interests and character were affected by these proceedings applied for an immediate trial,
256Lord Holland
257 said, he would allow that this was a bill of pains and penalties conveying with it the consequences of a divorce. It was not a bill of divorce; for a bill of divorce was an application of one person to be relieved on account of adultery from the matrimonial ties con-traded with another. This was not a bill for the relief of one individual from another, but for the relief of the state, which was supposed to be aggrieved by the acts of
257The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that although he was not prepared to accede to the request of her majesty, that their lordships would proceed in 24 hours with the trial, yet he was convinced that their lordships ought not to let more than 24 hours pass without considering when they were to proceed. The interests of justice, and the requests of her majesty, demanded of them, that they should not allow four days to intervene without considering when and how they were to begin the trial. He could scarcely believe that the noble earl, in possession of all the facts, and accustomed, as he must be, to reflect deeply on the measure before the House—having moved for a secret committee, and having submitted papers to them on which they had reported—having had the good fortune to obtain the concurrence of their lordships in all the various changes of proceeding, should now be unable to point out the course which he meant to pursue, and should ask four days' delay to consider of it. He thought 24 hours quite sufficient for preparation.The Marquis of Lansdown
258 contended, that the noble earl ought to give his notice for to-morrow. How would the illustrious person accused feel, if, after bringing forward such charges as were contained in the bill on the table, ministers, by asking delay, declared that they were unprepared to carry their projects into effect? If they had any reasons for delay they should be connected with great and important interests. Nothing secret, nothing that could not be revealed, should prevent the immediate commencement and steady ter-
258The Earl of Carnarvon
259 sincerely wished that the observations of his noble friend would receive from ministers that attention which they deserved, and that, under the present painful circumstances, the coronation would be deferred. In saying this, he was sure he uttered the wish of every feeling man in the country. With regard to the point immediately before them, he concurred with his noble friends in raising his voice in support of the proposition against delay. Considering that the noble earl must have been long in possession of all the facts and circumstances, and considering the intervals of delay that had already occurred, it was not too much to expect that he should be prepared to state immediately his views and proposed mode of proceeding. If it was unreasonable to expect that be should immediately do it, surely to-morrow was the most distant day to which he ought to postpone his notice. The necessary arrangements could only be, of three sorts—either for the production of witnesses, or for obtaining a full attendance of their lordships, or securing the presence of judicial advice. Now, which of those arrangements rendered delay necessary? With respect to the production of witnesses, the evidence which they could give must have been months ago collected. It was impossible therefore, to conceive why the noble earl, if be had done his duty, should not be ready within twenty-four hours to state bow he meant to proceed with regard to it. The arrangements for securing a full at-
259Earl Grey
 said, that it could make no difference ultimately, whether he stated his plan to-morrow or on Monday; for, with regard to the judges, they would not all go on the circuits, and the presence of those who were going could be as little commanded in the one case as in the other. The presence of all the judges of course, would not be necessary.The Earl of Liverpool
 deprecated all delay, and could not avoid lifting his feeble voice, in accordance with what had been so well said by the noble lords who had spoken on his side of the House. On many accounts he wished the ceremony of the coronation to be postponed, and on none more than the agitated state of the public mind.The Earl of Darnley
306305 rose to call their lordships' attention to the order of the day made with reference to the bill he had introduced on the report of the secret committee. When this subject was under discussion on a former occasion, it was thought that the illustrious person against whom the proceedings were instituted, and her counsel, were desirous of considerable delay; but, in consequence of the report of the secret committee, and the bill which he had laid on the table, an application of a different nature had been made by the queen's counsel; namely, that their lordships should proceed forthwith with the inquiry. He by no means meant to complain of this as inconsistent, because he was perfectly sensible, that the different circumstances in which the case was then placed might give just ground for a change of opinion as to the time of proceeding. It must be obvious, however, that this change must, in some degree, affect those before whom the proceedings were to take place. But he did not make this observation with the view of casting any weight on that objection. On the contrary, he said that the call for an immediate inquiry having been made, their lordships were bound to answer it as far as it was practicable for them to do, consistently with the administration of substantial justice. This was a case in which they must put out of question every motive of mere convenience. On the last day on which this subject was under discussion, he had thrown out for their lordships consideration, whether they would think proper to
306305The Earl of Liverpool
308 assured the noble lord, that, from the inquiries he had made, he had found it was not possible for their lordships, with a due regard to the administration of justice, to call for the attendance of any of the learned judges before the 17th of August. He perfectly agreed with the noble earl, that it would be very desirable to obtain a delay before the commencement of the proceedings, rather than at any other time, if an arrangement for that purpose could be made suitable to the convenience of all parties. The noble earl thought that this object might be facilitated by communicating the charges and a list of the witnesses. As to the charges, he conceived that they were already sufficiently made known. They were as fully detailed in this bill as ever they had been in any other of the kind. With regard to the other and more important point, the communication of the names of the witnesses, he had given it his most serious consideration, and he was perfectly satisfied that no claim whatever could in justice be made to such a communication. It would be dangerous to make such a precedent, for it would tend to the establishment of one of the most inconvenient principles that could be adopted in proceedings of a similar kind,
308The Earl of Liverpool
311310309 desired the standing order, No. 47, which regulates proceedings of inquiry before their lordships, and directs that defendants may be heard by counsel, &c., should be read. He had no hesitation in saying, that if the date of this order, as it stood in the order-book, was correct, it was imperative on their lordships to grant to her majesty the substance of the depositions or charges against her. He had no wish to call upon their lordships to do any more in this case than what substantial justice required, and therefore he did not rest much on this ground; he would indeed candidly confess, that he had some doubt of the accuracy of the date: it was the 3rd of April, 1623. It appeared that proceedings were then instituted in that House against the lord-treasurer Middlesex. A report from a committee, at the head of which was the archbishop of Canterbury, had been made on the 2nd of April, stating that, in the course of their inquiry, reflections had been found to attach on the honour of the lord-treasurer. On the 5th a committee was appointed in the Commons to inquire into the conduct of the lord-treasurer Middlesex. If this order were entered on the Journals on the 3rd of April (the period specified), no doubt whatever could exist but that it was done for the purpose of granting to the lord-treasurer a communication of those charges that had been made against him in a secret committee, and with respect to which the other House had given him no information. A conference took place between the two Houses, and at that conference an accusation was preferred against the lord-treasurer. That accusation, and a report of the proceedings at that conference, were referred to a committee of their lordships, and they almost unanimously caused articles of impeachment to be drawn up against the lord-treasurer. The manner in which the business seemed to be conducted was this:—There was, on the part of the plaintiff and defendant, a certain report drawn up by the House, and witnesses were sworn at the bar to give evidence on the subject. On the 3rd of April, an inquiry took place as to whether the information required by the lord-treasurer should be granted to him or not. On that occasion, they did not arrive at any decision. On the 3rd of
311310309Lord Holland
312 said, it would be better if the noble lord, instead of introducing this point incidentally, would make a distinct motion on the subject. Unless that were done, the House could not, he conceived, deal with the question. If any noble lord was anxious to introduce the subject to the House, he might do so by offering a distinct proposition with respect to it. For his own part, he had heard nothing that tended in the slightest degree to shake the opinion he had formed on this question. The noble lord, in support of his view of the case, had referred to an old standing order of that House; and he had very candidly observed, that he knew not how far it would apply to their lordships' present proceedings. But he believed, if they examined their Journals, they would find entries considerably later, and connected with analogous cases, where copies of depositions and papers of the nature of those that had been referred to the secret committee, were actually refused to the parties concerned, who had applied for them. In the case of bishop Atterbury divers papers were laid before the House of Commons in support of the charge against that individual. Copies of those papers were afterwards sent to the Lords. The bishop petitioned the House, praying to have sufficient time allowed him, before the second reading of the bill, to inspect those papers by his counsel or soli-
312The Earl of Liverpool
313 said, if he had not misunderstood the noble lord (Holland), the argument which he used on this occasion was at variance with that which he had formerly advanced. The argument adduced against the secret committee was, that the consequence of laying those papers and depositions before such a body, without the examination of witnesses, would be to prejudice their minds in a considerable degree, and thus to render them unfit to act judicially on the subject. This, as far as his recollection served, was the objection against the secret committee; and that objection the noble lord now proposed to extend to the whole House, by placing under the eye of every peer those papers which, in the-former case, he considered as likely to-
313Lord Ellenborough
ex parte314 did not deny that the noble lord had stated very fairly the view which he had on a former occasion taken of the formation of a secret committee. He then said, it would be very unsatisfactory to the public, and therefore most unwise, to call for an opinion from fifteen peers, with respect to papers submitted to them, since they would be afterwards called to decide finally on the question in a judicial capacity. Now, in what he had observed this evening, there was nothing that could justly be termed inconsistent with that opinion. There certainly was
ex parte314Lord Holland
318317 declared, that he looked at this case with a feeling of the most perfect impartiality, and he wished to God that it was attended to with the same calmness both in that House and out of it. In that House, he was persuaded, it would be so regarded; but out of that House it was quite shocking to see how much it had been neglected. With respect to what his noble and learned friend had said, it appeared that there was no one case whatever, except that of high treason, which he could state as having the smallest analogy to the present;
318317The Lord Chancellor
307 did not oppose the motion made by the noble earl, but observed that, if there was to be any delay, he thought it would be much better that it should take place before the proceedings commenced than during their progress. He was ignorant as to what course the illustrious person against whom these proceedings were directed might wish to adopt; and, in the present state of the information before their lordships, it was difficult to suggest any thing on the subject. He thought, however, that some arrangement might be made with her majesty, so as to have the delay previously to the inquiry, instead of making it interpose, as it otherwise might do, to allow time for the preparation of the defence. How this was to be brought about he did not know, but he thought it might be accomplished by communicating to her
307Earl Grey
316315—My lords; much as I always desire to hear my noble friend on the right, I am not sure I should have given way to him, if I had not expected it would have been more to the matter now before us. He says that we have two characters, that of hereditary counsellors, and legislators also, and that if looking at the evidence secretly in the former character, disqualified us for sitting in judgment on it afterwards, no such parliamentary jurisdiction should have ever existed; but to that it can be only answered (and I am delivering no opinion on the point), that if looking at the evidence secretly, affects the judgment, as it is impossible to change the nature of
316315Lord Erskine.
 suggested the propriety of appointing a committee to search for precedents, not only with respect to the giving of lists of witnesses in analogous cases, but with respect to the whole proceedings.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, he had no objection to the appointment of a committee, but as it would be essential to have a report respecting any precedents for the communication of a list of witnesses, before Friday, when the question was to be discussed, he thought it desirable that the committee should be confined to that point, at least, in the first instance.The Earl of Liverpool
359 would willingly concur in the proposition of his noble friend to search for precedents; but if they were to look for what had been done on bills of attainder and bills of pains and penalties, he thought it necessary, to enable their lordships to form a just opinion of the precedent, and to give satisfaction to the public, that the whole of the proceedings on such bills should be reported. Perhaps, as a member of that House, he might have reason to feel some humiliation from the report of a committee appointed with such powers; but he was anxious that substantial justice should be done. He must object to a mere report
359Lord Holland
 wished the power of the committee to be as extensive as could be practically advantageous to the object in view.The Earl of Lauderdale
360 said, he objected to it. Their lordships ought to know the whole proceedings relative to the precedent, to enable them to form an opinion respecting it. Bills of pains and penalties were in their nature exceptions from the ordinary exercise of the judicial functions of the House. On such proceedings their lord-ships might find themselves pressed by expediency to make rules for the occasion; for that reason he could not see how their lordships could be bound by a rule so made, without knowing the grounds on which it had been adopted. It would be most unjust to extract from such cases a particular part of a proceeding, and report it as a precedent by which the House ought to be guided in the present inquiry. Suppose, for instance, their lordships should be told by their committee, that bishop Atterbury had been refused copies of certain documents for which he applied; what respect would be due to such a precedent? The real fact was, that that rev. prelate stood in the situation of having the whole mass of the evidence intended to be adduced at the time of his application before him. The charge had gone through the Commons before it came to that House, and of course he was acquainted with all the particulars when he applied for papers which had been laid before a secret committee. The principle of the refusal was, that those papers which had been referred to their lordships' committee were not likely to be used against him, as he was to be tried on the charges from the other House. He did not know that it was necessary to have an examination of the Journals at all; but if the search was to take place, the whole proceedings relative to any precedent referred to, must be reported. Their lordships would not do justice to themselves, if the report was not such as to give every individual peer the opportunity of judging of the appli-
360Lord Holland
361 again objected to the motion. He thought, if their lordships searched for precedents on one point they should search for them on all. To search for precedents in one case of an anomalous proceeding, and to be guided by those precedents, without taking into view the irregularity of the whole proceeding, might be doing an act of injustice. When their lordships, therefore, departed so much from the rules of their own House in cases of judicial proceeding, and from the forms of common law, as they did by the bill before the House, they ought to be guided not by precedent or form, but by the rules of justice. The moment they proceeded by a bill of pains and penalties they departed from all the analogies of law in the case of the prosecution, and therefore ought not be guided by them in that of the defence. Their lordships well knew that if it was not regular to grant lists of witnesses in proceedings by a bill of pains and penalties, so neither was it regular to proceed by the report of a secret committee. It was therefore, contrary to justice to look to forms when they professed to be guided by no other compass than what seemed reasonable, right, and honourable to their own minds. He would say that so little was parliament guided by regard to precedents in bills of pains and penalties, that no three cases would be found to follow the same rules. He would repeat, that from the moment their lordships proceeded by bill they deserted precedent, and should afterwards be regulated by what was agreeable to justice, and not be fettered by what was conformable to usage. The noble earl at the head of the Treasury had candidly observed, that the question was, whether her majesty should be allowed a list of the witnesses in the first instance, or whether after the evidence of the charge had been heard, an interval should he allowed her for making her de-
361Lord Holland
 declared, that his vote on Friday should be guided by a wish to see substantial justice done. The House had hitherto proceeded in an unprecedented manner; and if the granting of the list of witnesses was to be refused on the ground of precedent, he wished their lordships had been equally alive to the consideration of established form when they appointed their secret committee. If their lordships were to disregard rule on the side of the prosecution, they should take care that substantial justice was done without regard to form in granting facilities for defence. He was against the motion, unless it was made to include an inquiry into all the proceedings relative to bills of pains and penalties, as well as into the point of granting or refusing a list of witnesses.Lord Auckland
 said he had a petition to present from her Majesty, which prayed that she might be furnished with a list of the witnesses which it was intended to adduce against her. He now moved that the petition be read, and intended to propose that it should be taken into consideration on Friday next, the day on which the motion of a noble and learned lord which had the same object, was to be made. The petition was read by the clerk as follows:Lord Auckland
 would agree to a motion to search for precedents for the purpose of ascertaining if it had been the custom to grant lists of witnesses in cases of bills of pains and penalties, and, he would add, of impeachment.Earl Bathurst
ll421420 rose to move the second reading of this bill. He strongly impressed on their lordships the necessity of carrying through this measure, and hoped that their own judgment and feeling would supply whatever might be wanting in his argument in its support. The Marriage act, which it was proposed to amend, he admitted was a law of great advantage to the morals of the country; but the amendment proposed to be made by the present bill originated in no speculative theories, but in a practical view of the defects of the law. His lordship quoted several cases of great hardship which had occurred under the act by the dissolution of marriages contracted during the minority of one or both the parties after they had lived as husband and wife for twenty or thirty years. In one case a marriage had been dissolved, though made
ll421420Lord Ellenborough
422communis error facit jus. would have been deterred from opposing this bill, considering the virtuous principles on which the noble lord had rested its defence, were he not convinced that its tendency was, to injure those principles the noble lord wished to support. That there might have been, since 1754 when the Marriage act was passed, in consequence of mistakes of parties, many very unfortunate cases of marriage, was a proposition which he did not mean to controvert. These cases he sincerely regretted; and if this bill were intended for the relief of persons suffering under them, it would be a measure worthy of their lordships' serious consideration. Relief had been given with respect to marriages in chapels which were not consecrated before the Marriage act. That was a case in which an amendment of the act was necessary, because those marriages were universally believed to be legal, and 422communis error facit jus.The Lord Chancellor
 supplicated the learned lord to allow the bill to go to a second reading, as, in the committee, alterations might be made, which might remove the objectionable parts. If in the committee it was found that the objections could not be removed, and that no remedy could be afforded, the country must submit to the evils of the law, as it now stood; but even taking all the learned lord's objections to be well founded, the attempt to obviate them should at least be made. The present bill was an amendment of the Marriage act. It went upon the principle, that there should be a limitation to the time of instituting suits under the Marriage act; and he knew not why there should be a limitation in all cases of property, and none in the case of marriage. Sixty years was the limitation with respect to property, but even sixty years possession did not give a man a title to his own wife.The Earl of Westmoreland
 lamented that the learned lord on the woolsack should have felt it his duty to oppose the bill in this stage, as so many reasons had been urged in support of it. Their lordships were often called upon to administer impartial justice, and to protect the faith and sanctity of domestic life, which could not be done as the law now stood. If it was their duty at any time to examine the Marriage act with a view to amend its provisions or to supply its defects, the call became more pressing on the present occasion, when their attention was called to the awful task of administering justice on the subject between the highest individuals of the realm. Their lordships ought to consider whether they would be answerable any longer for a state of the law which inflicted more injustice and hardships on certain parties than could be conceived—which rendered that relation that ought of all others to be stable, permanent, and respected, liable to be annulled and destroyed without the allegation of a fault—and which was as repugnant to common sense as it was to common humanity.Lord Calthorpe
 supported the bill, and regretted that the learned lord on the woolsack would not allow it to go into a committee.The Earl of Limerick
 said, he could not prevent the bill going into a committee, but he could not think he should be doing his duty if he did not vote against it.The Lord Chancellor
423 opposed the bill. It would, he said, take away rights already vested, and extensively affect the property of families. If any alteration was to be made in the Marriage act, it
423Lord Redesdale
445ex-parteviva voce444443442As when a giant dies!"In corporal sufferance feels a pang as great"The poor beetle that we tread upon,441 rose. He assured their lordships that never in the whole course of his life did he engage in a duty which upon many accounts was to him so painful and embarrassing. Disagreeable, however, as the duty was, he was bound by what he owed to their lordships, by what he owed to the constitution, and by the reverence which he entertained for the due administration of justice, to obey the dictates of that duty, no matter what consequences his conduct might tend to bring about. He was very unwilling to advert to all that had passed with respect to this matter—he would consider the attempt to establish an analogy between this case and one of high treason, as abandoned—and all arguments which might be incidentally put forward with a view to revive this point, he would consider as having gone for nothing. Even the report which had been just made to their lordships, he would not advert to, because, whatever might be the effect of the inquiries of the committee after precedents, he was never of opinion, that in order to direct the course of the administration of justice in the present times, we should refer to those
445ex-parteviva voce444443442As when a giant dies!"In corporal sufferance feels a pang as great"The poor beetle that we tread upon,441The Lord Chancellor
450449448pro re nata447446 considered the decision of this question important, not merely as it respected the illustrious personage implicated in the proceeding. The impression with which he had entered the House had been most materially strengthened by the speech of his noble and learned friend, which was one of the most convincing, calm, and dispassionate he had ever heard within the walls of parliament. He felt no inconsiderable degree of satisfaction, that the motion now brought forward had been announced by his noble and learned friend (after an incidental conversation, and not a debate as the noble and learned lord on the woolsack had intimated) before any application had been made on the part of the queen; and he hoped to be able to convince the House, that, in justice to her majesty, as well as in justice to the accusing party represented by the noble lords opposite (to whom he did not attribute any wish contrary to the administration of the purest justice), and in opposition to
450449448pro re nata447446The Marquis of Lansdown
455454453452451 said, there were few questions on which he could be more anxious to deliver his sentiments than on that now before the House; because he knew little of himself, and of his own feelings and disposition in a matter of this character and magnitude, if he could allow himself for a moment to doubt on which side the balance ought to preponderate. If, in the appeal of her majesty, or in the speech of the noble and learned lord, any well-founded claim of substantial justice had been made out, he hoped he should have been among the first to give it his consent. He was, however, ready to discuss the question on the general grounds taken by the noble marquis. He agreed that bills of pains and penalties were contrary to the regular course of law; and that the House ought not to be guided in such cases by any precedents, excepting as far as those precedents might be supported by the principles of substantial justice. On a former occasion, he had made this admission to the fullest extent that could he required; he had allowed that no precedents were to be found; but supposing they were all the other way, supposing they universally supported the grant of a list of witnesses, he put it to
455454453452451The Earl of Liverpool
462ex-parte461460459de factode jure,458457456 said, the conclusion of the noble earl's speech was directly at variance with the principles with which it sat out. The noble earl had just stated his wish that the House should adhere to the
462ex-parte461460459de factode jure,458457456Lord Holland
465alias.464463 allowed that the present was a novel proceeding; but said, he could not sit still and listen to the rules that had been laid down for the government of the proceedings of their lordships'
465alias.464463Lord Ellenborough
 could not understand what the noble lord meant by talking, as he had done, about popular effect and popular clamour. If the noble lord alluded either to him or to his noble and learned friend who had brought forward the motion, he flung back the imputation with scorn, and would tell the noble lord that it was a most unparliamentary proceeding to attribute improper motives to any noble lord. If, however, the noble lord alluded to the illustrious individual whose case was before their lordships, he would then tell the noble lord that he did not envy the feelings nor admire the charity of that individual who could impute motives which he could not know, and which it was impossible for him to prove, to a party labouring under such heavy charges as the illustrious personage in question.Lord Holland
 in explanation, said, that from the respect which the noble lord knew he felt both for him and for his noble and learned friend, he must have been aware that he (lord Ellenborough) could not intend to impute to either of them any design of exciting popular clamour. Neither had he any intention to impute any such motive to her majesty. What he alluded to was the mischievous spirit that pervaded every part of the metropolis; and the efforts made to influence the public mind. It was impossible for a man to walk along the streets, or to take up a newspaper, without witnessing the dangerous extent to which that spirit was carried.Lord Ellenborough,
 expressed himself satisfied with the explanation afforded by the noble lord.Lord Holland
466 felt too anxious as to the result of this motion to give a silent vote upon it. The appearance of the times was fearful, and he prayed to God such times might never come again. Amazing anxiety existed abroad, and there was little less within doors. If the case was different from other cases of divorce, how then could their lordships
466The Marquis of Bute
Was barter'd by a timorous slave."And the firm Russian's purpose brave,And Austria bent and Prussia broke,"When Europe bowed beneath the yoke,467 said, he could not give his vote on this occasion without making a few observations. They were about to pass a law, which would deprive her majesty of rights, which she would otherwise possess. In such a case it was their lordships' duty to afford her majesty every opportunity of conducting her defence. Her majesty asked no more than that which, according to the laws of one part of the British dominions, was allowed to every subject, and to which she was entitled. He could not help expressing his surprise, at hearing certain noble lords opposite, and who owed so much to the people, raise their voices against what they called "popular clamour;" to hear them exclaim, the people meant to trample on them, to direct them, and so on. He remembered the
Was barter'd by a timorous slave."And the firm Russian's purpose brave,And Austria bent and Prussia broke,"When Europe bowed beneath the yoke,467Lord Belhaven
470469468 felt it necessary to make a few observations on this very important question. It was urged on the other side, that there were many difficulties interfering against the present motion. He did not wish to refer to the strange bill now in his hands, and upon which they had proceeded so far without any one of their lordships (save the secret committee), knowing the grounds of the measure, or the contents of the fatal bag upon which it was founded. The preamble of the bill contained, at least, what was considered the front, if not the sum of the offending. And a part of that preamble was such nonsense, as to be scarcely worth repeating. It commenced by stating, that, "Whereas in the year 1814, her majesty Caroline Amelia Elizabeth, then princess of Wales, and now queen consort of this realm, being at Milan, in Italy, engaged in her service, in a menial situation, one Bartolomo Pergami, a foreigner of low station, who had before served in a similar capacity." Where, he would ask, was the charge of criminality in this? The preamble went on to state, "And whereas the said Bartolomo Pergami, or Bergami, had so entered the service of her royal highness the said princess of Wales, a most unbecoming and disgusting intimacy commenced between her royal highness and the said Bartolomo Bergami, and that she had not only advanced him to a high situation in her royal highness's household, and received him into her service, and that in high and confidential situations about her royal highness's own person, but bestowed upon him other great and extraordinary marks of favour and distinction, obtained for him orders of knighthood and titles of honour, and conferred upon him a pretended order of knighthood, which her royal highness had
470469468The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, that there was no precedent which could guide any of their lordships on this occasion. The analogy which might be derived from other cases did not apply to the mode of proceeding now proposed. He should limit what he had to say to the grounds on which his noble friend had proposed this motion. He opposed the motion, on the ground that to accede to it would be to defeat the ends of justice. And here he would ask, whether his noble friend had called upon them to give such a list of witnesses as was mentioned in the act of William? He had done no such thing, but had reserved to the House and to the accusers the power of bringing forward new witnesses. What justice would this do either to the accused or the accusing party? Of what advantage would it be to give in a list of witnesses to the accused party, if other witnesses might afterwards be added to them? Did it not allow the accuser the power (although of course he imputed no such intention to them) of giving in a false list, and of sending the accused to look after those who were either nonentities, or had nothing to do in the cause, whilst they were keeping those whom they actually intended to call as witnesses secure in the back ground? On the other hand, did it not give to the accused party the opportunity of tampering with or intimidating the accuser's witnesses? He was sure it did not require much persuasion after recent experience, to convince their lordships of the necessity of protecting their witnesses. Who could say that the description of these witnesses would not meet the public eye, and if they did, who could answer for the consequences. He did not hesitate to say, that the national character had been disgraced by the treatment which some of the witnesses had already received; and he had little doubt that, if the names of the other witnesses were known, they would be equally maltreated.The Earl of Lauderdale
472471 replied. If it was once proved to him that his motion would have the effect of hindering the progress of justice, he would that moment withdraw it.—He was, however, far from being convinced by any thing which occurred to-night that it would have any such effect, and was therefore determined to press its adoption
472471Lord Erskine
dd440439438437For one plain reason, man is not a fly.""Why has not man a microscopic eye?436435434433432Vestigia nulla re-trorsum.431430de die in diem429 rose and said:—My lords; having already given my opinion to your lordships upon the important subject now appointed for final consideration, and, at the same time, my reasons for entertaining it, I shall now detain you but for a very short time. I introduced it before on the sudden, in consequence only of what had immediately before been suggested by a noble friend not now present (earl Grey), whose opinions are always worthy of the greatest attention, and which stand in the highest place with me; but there being then no question before the House, I gave the notice which now brings us together; and it is not my wish that your lordships should depend upon any argument of mine, but that it should rather serve as an introduction, to draw out the sentiments of others to prepare you for a just decision.dd440439438437For one plain reason, man is not a fly.""Why has not man a microscopic eye?436435434433432Vestigia nulla re-trorsum.431430de die in diem429Lord Erskine
 said, it would be remembered that deer-stealing would remain punishable for the first offence by fine, for the second offence by tranportation. Now the question was, whether the fact of persons blackening their faces was a circumstance of sufficient importance to warrant the punishment of death?The Marquis of Lansdown
 said, that from the respect which he entertained for his noble friend, he could easily conceive that the bill might, after it had gone through a committee, prove much less injurious to the morals and religion of the country than it now appeared to him calculated to be in all its clauses. He must at the same time say not-content to the motion for going into a committee.The Lord Chancellor
 observed, that if the bill was to have a retrospective operation, nothing should induce him to vote for it. It would go to overturn numberless settlements, to revive suits which had been decided, to set aside wills and revoke administrations. As the bill now stood, its retrospective effect would extend over a period of seventy years, and marriages solemnized during that period might by possibility be made null and void.Lord Redesdale
 agreed with what had fallen from the noble lord, but at the same time thought that the Marriage act required alteration. To him it appeared that the simplest law was the best, and he should rather be for granting more facility than for interposing any obstruction in contracting marriage. Every new regulation, however, should be prospective only; and although there might be past cases in which hardships must be sustained, it could not be said that there was any injustice in leaving parties to the provisions of the old law.The Earl of Liverpool
 also thought that the law required alteration, and that the proper course was to go into the committee. Those who held that the bill should be retrospective would likewise have the opportunity of submitting a proposition with that view. His own conviction was, that as the law now stood, it was as bad as it could be.Lord Holland
491bona fide said, that one of the most objectionable clauses he had ever seen in any bill was that which provided, that because the bans had been irregular, it should be left to the judge to decide whether it was a 491bona fideThe Lord Chancellor
 thought, that if the act had not a retrospective operation, no good would follow from it.The Earl of Westmorland
492 on moving the order of the day for the third reading of the Privately Stealing bill, said, that there were three bills before the House in the same stage, for the amendment of the criminal laws of the country He had selected the one just read by the clerk as the first for their lordships' consideration, as he was apprehensive that it would meet the most serious opposition. With that apprehension on his mind, he should state the grounds by which he felt that the bill was recommended to their support. It was but justice to their lordships to say, that he was persuaded there was not a member of the House who would wish to continue in their full severity any part of the penal laws which were not attended with beneficial effects. They were now to consider the propriety of repealing a bill which had remained for a considerable time a dead letter on the Statute Book, and which, instead of assisting, prejudiced the course of justice, by deterring prosecutors from taking that part which they ought in order to bring criminals to account. He knew of no test by which they could judge of the efficacy of penal laws, except the experiment, whether, on the whole, they had contributed to repress crime, and whether they had met with the concurrent feeling of the community? Looking, therefore, at the present measure in this view, he was confident when he asserted that the law ought to be repealed—that, owing to its severity, it had been hardly executed during the last 60 or 70 years, nay, even as far back as it was possible to collect facts with any certainty—that its severity had so far armed judges, prosecutors, and juries against it, as to render it almost impossible to obtain a conviction under it. In the great-
492The Marquis of Lansdown,
494l493 said, that the noble marquis had misunderstood him, if he supposed that it was his intention to oppose that bill in particular. At the sametime he considered it a matter of regret, that those bills were not brought forward when the House might have the advantage of the presence of the twelve judges, especially as they were said to have interposed mercy in so many cases against the verdicts of juries. In the former instances in which these bills were discussed, they
494l493The Lord Chancellor
495 said, the noble baron seemed to have an extraordinary apprehension of these black-faced gentry, but it was to be hoped that his apprehensions as to their increase would be found groundless. When on a former occasion. a bill was introduced into another House to take away the capital punishment which attached to persons calling themselves Egyptians, the member for Kent rose to protest against it in behalf of his county, which he foretold would be inundated with gipsies. The noble lords near him could now tell the House whether Kent
495Lord Holland
 said, he should wish the noble marquis to consent to the postponement of the third reading of this bill till to-morrow, as there were, in his mind, so many objections to it, that it could not be discussed without occupying much of their lordships' time.The Lord Chancellor
496 said, he would, in the mean time, to save trouble, point out the objections which he had to some of the enactments. Among the offences from which the bill took away the punishment of death, were those to which capital punishment was affixed by the 9th Geo. 1, chap. 22, viz. the killing, maiming, or wounding of cattle, or the cutting down of trees in orchards or plantations. It did undoubtedly seem a hardship that so heavy a punishment as that of death should be affixed to the cutting down a single tree, or the killing or wounding a cow. But it was a necessary consequence of general descriptions, that all cases were included. It was impossible, by the means of language, to frame laws which should apply to all cases, without the exercise of the discretion of the judge. In the case of burglary, for instance—if a person passing Ludgate-hill broke a pane of glass and drew out a ribband, that was burglary. This would be thought too hard a case for the application of capital punishment, yet this offence was made punishable by death under the words of the same law, which was necessary to prevent the breaking into a house in the dead of night, finding the family, standing over them with pistols, and rifling the dwelling. It was impossible, of course, to administer such a law, without the interposition of mercy and discretion. Now, in the case before the House, if the bill passed in its present state, a person might root up or cut down whole acres of plantations, or destroy the whole of the stock of cattle of a farmer, without being subject to capital punishment. Persons would thus be let loose to do mischief far beyond the limits of many capital crimes. He could not, therefore, without hearing his objections removed, consent to this part of the bill. As to the clause which took away the punishment of death from bankruptcy offences, he had no objection to it. In the experience of forty years in the court of Chancery, he had only
496The Lord Chancellor
ll said, that if it was known that courts would be in the habit of applying a higher punishment to deer-stealing when committed by persons thus disguised, as, for instance, that they would fine simple deer-stealers 10llThe Marquis of Lansdown
488487lll486 rose to move for the production of certain papers relative to some recent transactions in Parga, and the general administration of affairs in the Ionian islands by Sir T. Maitland. Although there was no reason to believe his motion would be opposed, the House would permit him to enter a little into the subject, with a view of showing the justice and propriety by which general Maitland's conduct had been marked. It would not indeed be difficult to show that he had rendered a service, and an essential service, to his country. It might be curious to trace the misrepresentations which had been circulated with reference to his government to their origin. At first those misrepresentations related only to the provisions of the treaties concerning Parga. The censure did not extend to the present high commissioner; but pamphlets had been since published, some with and some without names; and a review also had appeared, which, affecting to blame those pamphlets, gave additional force to the calumnies the contained. For the character of the officer in question he might well be supposed to feel great esteem, and no small regard for his person; and therefore he trusted their lordships would excuse his taking this opportunity of vindicating that character from unjust aspersions. The statements which he alluded to branched into a variety of accusations; the first of which was, that he had neglected his duty in making an improvident bargain for the people of Parga; secondly, that he had expended large sums of money; thirdly, that he had adopted a system of impolitic and oppressive taxation, by which an insurrection had been produced; and, lastly, that he had assumed an exorbitant power, which he exercised oppressively. Now, with regard to the provision in the treaty of Paris, as it respected Parga, he wished those who formed such decided opinions on the subject had adverted to it with a little mote care. The
488487lll486The Earl of Lauderdale
489 remarked, that the whole administration of sir T. Maitland was deserving of the highest credit: a most important and delicate trust had been committed to him—a trust of a peculiar nature, and in the discharge of which he could derive no benefit from past experience. This, however, he had executed with the utmost temper, ability, and moderation. There was no governor in the, various colonies and dependencies of Great Britain who had acted in a more upright, honourable, assiduous, and prudent manner. He now wished to offer a few words as to the conduct of his majesty's government, which had likewise been much misrepresented. Whenever the subject should be fairly examined, it would appear that the British government had never exercised its protection more liberally or more scrupulously. The whole error of those who censured our proceedings in that quarter, arose from an idea that we had any option to exercise.
489Earl Bathurst
 said, the noble marquis pre-supposed that the offenders were detected. Now he was of opinion, that the class of persons he had mentioned did not care much for transportation.Lord Redesdale
l objected to the repeal of the punishment of death in the case of persons committing certain offences, being disguised by night. He stated that in the part of the country where he resided, he was obliged, conjointly with some of his neighbours, to keep up a police of six men at the expense of 200lLord Redesdale
 said, his supposition was, that in all cases these offenders would go with their faces blackened.Lord Redesdale
525 observed, that so far as he had been able to make himself master of the subject, the effect of the repeal of these statutes would be, that where the offences referred to were misdemeanors at common law, they might be so prosecuted, and where there were any previous statutes affecting them, those statutes would come into force. He repeated his objections to the repeal of the provisions of the 9th Geo. 1st, c. 22 (the
525The Lord Chancellor
 repeated his objection also in this case, to the taking away the punishment of death from certain offences enumerated in the 9th Geo. 1st, c. 22, such as cutting down trees, killing cattle, and cutting through the banks of rivers, or sea banks; for though the cutting down one tree, or the destroying one head of cattle might not be an offence which it would be fitting to visit with the punishment of death, yet the destroying a whole forest, or killing all the cattle on a farm to the ruin of the occupier, were offences of serious magnitude, and it should be observed, that in general maxims of law, the smaller crime could only be classed with the greater in the same genus of offence (if he might so express himself), leaving it to the discretion of judges to make the distinction in the punishment. He thought the better way would be to strike out these and some other parts of the bill, and to let that branch of the subject stand over till next session, when they might have the opinion of the judges as to the expediency of repealing these enactments.The Lord Chancellor
526 was willing to agree to the course proposed by the noble and learned lord with reference to this bill. He could not, however, quit the subject for the present without observing, that the number of convictions (so far as they had been ascertained) for the offences respecting which the learned lord objected to taking away the penalty of death, did not tend to show that the continuance of that punishment was at all efficacious. It appeared that there had been 25 commitments for these offences on the northern circuit, but only two
526The Marquis of Lansdoven
527 observed, that the great defect in our criminal legislation was the want of a secondary punishment, that might be substituted for the terror of death, and for which purpose transportation, as now managed, was of little or no avail. Several years ago, when transportation meant either to be transported to the worst and most noxious climate in the world, that of Africa, or to the British colonies in North America, where the parties transported became indented servants, and were in fact treated worse than the negro slaves, this punishment served to excite some degree of terror. Now, however, the system was entirely changed, and the colonial office was besieged with applications without end (many more than could be complied with), from persons wishing to have liberty to settle in the delightful country and under the fine climate of New South Wales. It was in vain, therefore, to talk of transportation as a punishment carrying with it any species of terror; the fact was, that to a number of offenders, who had become well known as notorious characters in this metropolis, transportation to New South Wales was precisely what they wished for. The terror, therefore, of the punishment of transportation for life just amounted to nothing at all, with reference to the class of offenders to whom, in general, it was to be applied. He highly respected the talents of the hon. and learned gentleman
527The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that all offenders in such cases knew even now, that when convictions could be obtained under the act, transportation was practically the punishment to which they had to look; so that the nominal penalty of death did not operate as a prevention of crime.The Earl of Rosslyn
 admitted, that where it was possible, the punishment of death should be dispensed with, but maintained the necessity of providing a better regulation of secondary punishment than mere transportation. He further added, that it was his intention to bring in a bill next session, containing the clauses now rejected, with a view to obtain the opinion of the judges upon them.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that the great obstacle to prosecutions was not the severity of the punishment that followed, but the expense of conducting them, and suggested the propriety of having such ex-pences paid in certain cases by the public.Lord Redesdale
 doubted whether transportation could ever be made a good secondary punishment. His majesty's ministers had already sent out a commission to New South Wales, in order to inquire whether some regulation might not be made in that colony, with a view to increase the punishment against great offenders, and to mitigate it towards those of smaller criminality. As it stood at present, it was far from operating as a punishment in many instances. Another objection to transportation was the great expence to which it put the country; and one of the objects with which the commission was charged, was that of estimating the expence of any system which they might think proper to recommend, the estimate of course to be laid before parliament when the subject should happen to be brought under their consideration.Earl Bathurst
528 thought that the more the punishment of death was confined to cases in which violence was added to the crime, the less frequent would be the instances in which violence would take place.
528The Marquis of Lansdown
a fortiori said, he had submitted a motion some time ago to their lordships, in consequence of a disaster which had taken place during the late American war, and which appeared to him to have arisen in a great measure out of the inadequacy of our force. His attention to that subject was, he believed, attended with some good effects, and it was his wish to have brought the general administration of the navy more fully under the consideration of parliament in the present session, if the public mind had not been unfortunately too much occupied with another subject. He had moved for a return of all ships of the line ready for service, or ordered to be built, and of ships or frigates of two decks not carrying less than twenty-four-pouoders; and he found by the return, that the present amount was 57, and the amount of those ordered to be built 17. He had, however, to observe, that the few frigates ordered to be built were of too light a description to answer the purpose for which it might be necessary to use them in the event of a war, and that the Admiralty appeared to him not to have adopted a proper degree of efficiency and economy in their arrangements. It was his intention to have called upon the House to sanction a proposition recommending retrenchment in every branch of the public expenditure. He regretted to find that the naval estimate for the present year was greater than the last, instead of being less, as it ought to be, when once it was put in a state of efficiency. It was absolutely impossible that the country could go on with an increasing expenditure and diminishing income. He hoped, therefore, that ministers would not think it enough to lop off an unnecessary clerk in this or in that department, but that they would put their shoulders to the wheel, and try what could be done by the adoption of a general and compulsory system of retrenchment. The great department of the navy was that in which above all others profuseness might be admitted with least disadvantage; but as he could show that even in that some saving might be made without injury to the public service, it followed a fortioriThe Earl of Darnley
 agreed with the noble lord, that as the navy increased in efficiency, the expense ought to diminish, and he hoped their lordships would find this to be the case in every succeeding year. It was not, after all, the number, but the durability of the ships, that should be considered; and the House would do well to recollect, that other powers built ships for temporary purposes, but the ships of the British navy were intended to go through a course of service which other navies never contemplated. It was certainly the duty of government to have ships ready to go to war; but their lordships had observed in the committee on foreign trade, that towards the conclusion of the late war, government was compelled to resort to the use of materials which introduced a more rapid decay among the ships than ever was known before. But care was now taken to prevent that in future. The noble lord had stated, that the ships now building were not of a proper class; but he ought to recollect, that we must build after the manner of those countries with whom it was possible that we might be engaged. Looking to America, it would appear that they only built large ships of 80 guns. As to the second class, the object of government was to repair those which were likely to be durable. The same observation applied to frigates of 40 guns. It was true that the United States built frigates as large as 60 gun ships, but the common size was 40 guns, and those of the different powers of Europe were of the same description. Great-Britain had some 60 gun frigates building; but her object was to have numbers as well as force, so as to be able to spread over as large a surface as possible to the annoyance of the enemy.Lord Melville
 expressed himself satisfied at the candid and satisfactory manner in which the noble lord had made his statement, and particularly at the prospect he had held out of decreasing expense in the general administration of the navy.The Earl of Darnley
531530 on moving the second reading of this bill, said, it was not his intention to enter at any length into an explanation of the principle of the bill, nor did he conceive that it would be necessary for him to discuss with minuteness the motives upon which he should submit that the second reading
531530Lord Sidmouth,
 said, that he, for one, was not bound by the argument which was implied by the observation of the noble viscount—that those who had supported the bill formerly could not consistently oppose its renewal on the present occasion. Had he been present when this bill was passed in 1818 he should certainly have signed the protest against it which he found recorded on the Journals; for he considered it as impolitic and unconstitutional an act as had ever been framed. After six years of profound peace, and when no reasonable ground whatever could be alleged for the necessity of the measure, he conceived that nothing could be more disgraceful to the country than suffering such an act as this to exist. Was it possible to believe that the safety of this great nation could be affected by either allowing or prohibiting a few foreigners to reside in it? He could not help remarking, that a great part of the noble lord's argument was derived from his own feelings and disposition; but, at the same time that he was willing to give the noble lord every credit which his warmest friends could give him for mildness and moderation and discretion, he would not consent to arm him with such powers as this bill imparted.The Earl of Darnley
537536535534533532 felt it absolutely necessary to offer a few words, by way of protest, against the renewal of this bill. Having so frequently on former occasions stated to the House, and recorded his opinion on their lordships' Journals, that bills of this-sort were cruel, unjust, and impolitic, he could not help now making a few remarks on the manner in which this measure was introduced, although he felt the irksomenoss of addressing the House under circumstances which rendered it extremely difficult to obtain an attentive hearing, both on account of the late period of the session, and the interest and importance of other subjects which engrossed the attention of parliament and of the public. With regard to that subject to which attention seemed at present to be exclusively directed, he would say, that their lordships and the other House of Parliament stood in a situation similar to that described by a Mr. Eden, who
537536535534533532Lord Holland
539538 thought that the only question for the consideration of the House was, whether the same reasons which had applied to the enactment of the law in question did not now call for its continuance during the additional period proposed? Unwilling, however, as he was, at that hour, to enter into the discussion of general principles, he felt it impossible to leave unnoticed the observa-
539538The Earl of Liverpool
540 in explanation, said, he did not speak of the conduct of the Austrian government with respect to its own subjects; but he did say, and he would repeat it, that not merely from the examination of history—not merely from the consideration of modern events, but from his own personal observation—for he was
540Lord Holland,
 contended, that there was nothing in the state of Europe, and nothing in the affairs of this country, that went to justify a bill which he would call oppressive and tyrannical.The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, that whilst he would be willing to support government in meeting every dangerous emergency, he could not agree to a measure which he did not think called for by circumstances, and which, to strangers, ignorant of the language and manners of the country, was peculiarly severe.Lord Calthorpe
553 said, that the learned lord had almost convinced him, contrary to his previous opinion, that the petition ought not to be rejected, as if the House were to make a practice of appointing secret committees, he should think it perfectly proper that such a practice should be complained of on behalf of the people at the bar of the House; nor did he see any objection to the expressions used respecting the bill of Pains and Penalties. But there was one allegation in the petition, which was decisive with him that it could not be received, and that was, the assertion, that the whole of the evidence referred to the secret committee, consisted of the depositions taken before the
553Lord Holland
 said, it was for their lordships to determine, after hearing the allegations in the petition, whether such a petition should lie upon the table.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that the petitioners assumed to themselves to know that the bill of Pains and Penalties originated in the secret committee; now he, who was a member of that committee knew of no such thing. The bill of Pains and Penalties did not originate in the secret committee, that committee having no knowledge whatever of it, but was brought forward by his majesty's ministers upon their own responsibility.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, that according to the established practice of parliament another motion now became necessary, and he therefore moved that the petition be rejected.The Earl of Lauderdale
 urged the House not to go the length of rejecting the petition, as no greater objection could be made against it than might have been stated against many other petitions, which the House had received.The Duke of Hamilton
 said, that the city of London had no more right to interfere in the judicial proceedings of that House, than any other city or town. If they were to allow of such an interposition from one quarter, they must expect it from every other, and in that case, it would be infinitely better for the public that their lordships should altogether surrender their judicial functions.The Lord Chancellor
555554 stated, that there was hardly one word of the bill, in its unamended state, to be found in the present. He wished, if possible, to avoid any objections to the recommitment; but, after what had taken place, he must entreat their lordships not to proceed further with so important a measure at this period of the session. He could assure the noble lord (Ellenborough), that he was so oppressed with the weight of other matters that
555554The Lord Chancellor
556 regretted that his noble and learned friend who had just sat down, and for whose profound talents and knowledge of the law, displayed throughout the whole course of his long and useful life, he entertained the highest deference and respect, should have expressed himself so decidedly against the present frame of the bill, or should not have reserved the benefit of his important observations for the opportunity of a committee, in which they might have been heard with so much effect. While he lamented that that noble and learned lord would not allow the bill to go into a committee, he must say, that he was not less surprised at the course that had been taken by another noble and learned lord who had
556Lord Ellenborough
vinculo562lex post facto561ex-post-facto560559558557 said:—The proposition is for the committal of the bill to amend the act of 26 Geo. 2nd. The objections that have been made have been generally to the provisions of the bill; it has been admitted that some remedy is required for the existing grievances, and it is proposed to recommit the bill to remove the objections to it, with the aid and assistance of the noble and learned lords, in the hope, by their great ability, some remedy may be found; but if unhappily after such consideration, that which is complained of cannot be amended, that the country must still suffer under such a system, at least we may have the satisfaction of having done our duty in the endeavour.—Before I proceed to consider the measure itself, I shall attempt to make some excuses for myself and the noble lord who proposed the reading of this bill for the very distressing situation in which we are placed in supporting a measure of a legal nature disapproved by the two learned lords, and stated to shake the property and the settlements of the country. The first protection under which I shall shelter myself is the authority of the
vinculo562lex post facto561ex-post-facto560559558557The Earl of Westmoreland
ipso factobona fidemala fide563 would not op-
ipso factobona fidemala fide563The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, he should support the bill, as the principle was triumphant over every thing that had been adduced against it.Lord Calthorpe
ex post facto567 denied that the House, because it had approved the principle of the bill, was bound to consent to
ex post facto567The Earl of Liverpool
568 said, that the noble earl would, as he understood him, prefer the introduction of two bills—one prospective, and one retrospective. Now, he would not deny that the one course would, probably, be as good as the other; but there was an old proverb, that a bird in the hand was worth two in the bush. If he could hope that the noble earl would follow up his argument by moving an instruction to the committee to divide the bill into two parts, lie would offer no objection to the course which that noble earl had indicated. As far as he understood the practice of the House, the alterations which the bill had suffered in the first committee could form no objec-
568Lord Holland
sine die, could not see upon what principle the consideration of the subject in question was to be adjourned sine die,Lord Holland
 said, he had told the noble lord, from the first, that he was not favourable to the bill. When it was read a second time, he had said that to any retrospective clause he should be decidedly averse, and that he thought the only remedy for the inconveniences of the existing law would be to cause all marriages to be performed by bans.Lord Redesdale
 thought the expressions used in the petition, with reference to the secret committee and the bill of Pains and Penalties sufficient cause for its rejection.Lord Redesdale
 observed, that the bill, as now altered, bore hardly any resemblance to what it was before, and he really thought it infinitely more objectionable than it was in its original state. The act already in force had provided that marriages contracted under certain circumstances should be null and void; but this bill would render them only voidable upon suit instituted. It proceeded altogether upon a new ground; namely, that the former act did not make such marriages void; and it enacted, that all such marriages should be good, notwithstanding any provisions of the existing law. It was, in effect, a total repeal of the former act. Even marriages celebrated in the Fleet, which was one description of marriages adverted to in that act, would be now made good and binding. Then again, by this bill neither party was to be at liberty to institute any suit, but parents and guardians alone. Those, therefore, who had neither parents nor guardians, must have their marriages rendered valid, whatever might have been the circumstances under which they took place. There was another clause, relative to the succession to dignities, which was at utter variance with its proviso. When this happened, according to lord Coke, the proviso must be regarded as foolish; but the enactment was altogether at variance with a solemn resolution of that House, as to succeeding to dignities. He would move as an amendment, that the bill be recommitted on this day six months.Lord Redesdale
566565564 said:—My lords: It appears to me that we are in the same situation now as when we consented to the principle of the bill by reading it a second time, and committing it; and that the motion of the noble and learned lord is to reverse that proceeding; and were it not that he had begun by stating that he intended to oppose the recommitment, I could not have collected such an intention from his speech, which consisted principally of objections to the framing of the amendment, all of which might be obviated in the committee, if suffered to proceed, so as to carry the bill, the principle of which had already been adopted by the House, into safe and clear execution.566565564Lord Erskine
 called the attention of the House to a petition from the corporation of London, observing, that he did not wish to give any opinion upon the subject matter of the petition; his opinions were to be known from his vote and conduct in parliament. The House had been in the habit of giving such a latitude to the receipt of petitions, that it became very difficult for any peer of parliament to say what petition, worded respectfully, they would not receive; and he would find it still more difficult to determine what might be the opinion of the House, when the petition tendered was not from any individual, but from the corporation of London. He did not, therefore, feel himself authorized to refuse, as a peer of parliament, to present this petition.Lord Erskine
570 said, that the noble and learned lord did not attempt to controvert the principle on which the clause was founded, and it might therefore be fairly asked, why was it to be abandoned in the case of a learned gentleman (Mr. Ellis), in whose favour alone the amendment was suggested? It was remarkable that, in this case, the learned gentleman had disqualified himself, and, in an examination upon oath before the commissioners of inquiry, had represented that the duties imposed upon him by his office were numerous and important. It was also the custom in Ireland to associate masters in chancery with the court of delegates; and in truth they exercised a variety of functions, which, if attended to, would furnish active employment during ten months of the year. Now if the learned gentleman was desirous of signalizing himself in parliament, he had only to throw up the laborious office which he at present held. For his own part, he was much averse to the practice of law-officers engaging in pursuits of ambition in the other House of Parliament. This was too general in Ireland before the Union, and the consequence was, that high legal offices were too frequently the reward of subserviency and corruption. Fortunately, the system had been changed, and those offices were now filled by a set of men who were lawyers, and who were competent to discharge their duties with honour to themselves, and advantage to the country; but as often as judicial duties were mixed up with the pursuits of a politician, instances would occur in
570The Earl of Limerick
 agreed that a very strong case of necessity should be made out; but as to the person's buying the office, that could make no difference in the determination of their lordships. It was pretty certain that the individual would never have bought the office unless he felt himself tolerably sure that he was capable of filling it; and he would try that question by the evidence of the gentleman himself. He had said that the business of an Irish master in Chancery would detain him in Dublin for ten months in every year. There was no difficulty, therefore, in supposing that, at the time of the purchase, he was aware of the duties, and thought himself qualified to perform them. Why was it now a hardship, then, that he should be required to yield the situation, seeing that, upon his own showing, the performance of its duties, and his attendance in England as a member of parliament, were incompatible and impossible? But it might be asked, why had not parliament made some legislative provision for this state of things before? To this the answer was, that parliament had never dreamt of the possibility of its happening, and never could have supposed that one man could discharge the duties of both situations.The Earl of Lauderdale
 begged to observe, in explanation, that he had never said that a person's judicial integrity might be affected by his sitting in parliament; but he would say this—that the mode of getting returned for populous places was not that which was advantageous for the preservation, at any rate, of an appearance of judicial purity.Lord Holland
 was almost afraid to trouble their lordships upon this subject; because, for whatever he might say on behalf of legal integrity and merit, their lordships perhaps would not, standing in the way he did before them, give him credit. But this he would say, that the descendants of those who had held high judicial situations in the country and whose posterity had seats in that House, had greatly distinguished themselves in their debates by a display of talents and eloquence which did honour both to parliament and themselves. He was not less sanguine of the future merits of the posterity those unfortunate individuals might leave who were the subjects of the present bill [A laugh]. He had had occasion, more than once since he had held the office of lord-chancellor, to express a wish that those masters whom he had appointed should not sit in parliament. But what would be the effects of such a clause as this? It would apply, upon the principle of incompatibility which had been so much relied on, not merely to the case of masters in Chancery, but, by virtue of it, they must turn out of the House of Commons his majesty's attorney and solicitor-general, all the king's sergeants, and a variety of others. It was really strange that he had never heard of this inconvenience, even from his noble and learned friends opposite, until the result of a particular election had been foreseen. Upon the point of incompatibility of duties, he would instance a very striking case, which might go the length of proving the fallaciousness of the argument—he meant that of one who had been a member of the other House, and an attendant upon this House, and would have been an ornament to any—sir Samuel Romilly. Every one knew the great variety of his professional avocations, and yet he was returned as representative for one of the most populous cities of the empire. But the same principle would go farther; for it would exclude from the House of Commons officers in the navy and army. His lordship concluded by protesting against the clause.The Lord Chancellor
 said, he should oppose the clause.Lord Kenyon
ex post facto571ex post factoex post facto said, he had hardly ever met with a clause in any bill which so many reasons united to recommend. By the law, if not the custom, of parliament, masters in chancery were prohibited from sitting in either House, and a resolution to this effect had been passed in the reign of Charles 1st. In fact, still stronger reasons applied to the exclusion of Irish masters in chancery than to the exclusion of masters in chancery in this country. It might be somewhat irregular in him to notice it; but their lordships ought not to forget that, by leaving out this clause, they would risk the loss of the bill altogether. Some deference was due to the other House in a matter affecting its constitution and independence. It appeared to him that the gentleman in question could not be a good member of parliament, unless the people of Ireland were deprived of that diligent and effective discharge of his judicial functions for which he had hitherto been remarkable. The mode in which he came into parliament, by canvassing a great city, did not, he apprehended, accord well with the purity of the judicial character. It had been said that this was an ex post facto571ex post factoex post factoLord Holland
572ex post facto wished to state the grounds upon which he should give his support to the amendment. He should not enter into the question whether this was, technically speaking, an 572ex post factoThe Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that the gentleman alluded to was specially excepted by name, from the operation of the bill in the other House.The Earl of Enniskillen
ex post facto thought it unfair to make any new parliamentary regulation of this kind apply to a gentleman who was already elected. He disliked all ex post factoThe Earl of Enniskillen
 rose to move an amendment in the clause which enacts that no master of chancery in Ireland shall be qualified, after the 1st of August next, to sit or vote as a member of the House of Commons. He did not mean to quarrel with the principle of this enactment, but they all knew under what circumstances this clause had been introduced. He should move, as an amendment on the words "is or shall be," to omit the words "is or."Lord Redesdale
578577 said, that the motion was, he confessed, one which he did not expect. It called on their lordships to allow her majesty to stand in a different situation from that in which she had necessarily been placed by the course of these proceedings, and in which, consistently with the ordinary administration of justice, she must continue. He should have been extremely glad if the learned lord, instead of dealing in general assertion, would have shown in what instance, during the course of his professional life, he recollected an application of this nature to have been made. Their lordships, by their resolution refusing to grant a list of the witnesses, had shown what they considered to be the general principle; and if he knew any thing of the law of parliament, the usage of parliament declared what that law was. Their lordships had
578577The Lord Chancellor
581580579de jure,de fucto said, he could not contend with the learned lord who had just spoken on legal subjects, but he thought that some of his positions were highly objectionable. The learned lord said, that the course now pursued accorded with all the analogies of common law, under which no such indulgence would be granted; and that, according to the ordinary course of parliamentary proceedings in that House, it must also be refused. But the learned lord would allow him to remark, that in the course of his speech he did not state that the bill of Pains and Penalties on their lordships' table was, in its shape, frame, or circumstances, by any means so precise as an indictment; and therefore, when the learned lord said that no such application was made in cases of indictment, he would answer that no such application was necessary, because the indictment on the face of it stated many circumstances that were not to be found in the bill before their lordships. In the instance of high treason, it was impossible to put into an indictment for that crime that which was contained in this bill: it was impossible to spread it over a period of six years. The learned lord knew very well that a treason committed three years ago, and left unquestioned for that time, was no longer treason in law, and could not be made the subject of an accusation. With respect to proceedings in parliament, the learned lord would find it extremely difficult to quote any thing like the present. Their lordships had had bills of pains and penalties before them; but when the learned lord stated this, did he, or could he, point out any bill in that House, in the course of which the person accused had not, either 581580579de jure,de fuctoLord Holland
583582 concurred with the noble lord in thinking that no correct analogy could be drawn between the present measure and the proceedings of courts below. Neither was this measure similar to any former case in which a bill of pains and penalties had been passed. The bill had been introduced in consequence of the report of a secret committee; but he had introduced it, not as a member of that committee, but as a member of the executive government. Upon that the queen had petitioned their lordships to proceed forthwith with the investigation. This petition had been considered, and the House had decided, that,
583582The Earl of Liverpool
584 was of opinion, that if substantial justice was the object which the House had to keep in its contemplation, its ends might possibly be disappointed by refusing this application. It
584Lord King
 declared his perfect readiness to meet every reasonable application; but if the time and place were to be specified at which adultery was charged, the inquiry before their lordships must be of a very limited description. Suppose evidence to be given of a material character, but not corresponding to the alleged time and place, would their lordships think it right to strike out such evidence? This was not even done in other proceedings of divorce; and with regard to what had been said about the queen's conduct at Milan, that referred only to a single place, and to a particular period of the time to which the whole charge referred. The 17th August had been fixed to the supposed satisfaction of all parties; their lordships had not deemed it right to furnish a list of the witnesses, and they were now desired to inform the queen of the places at which the alleged improprieties had occurred. If her majesty meant to defend her case on the 17th August, this application was perfectly absurd; because she could make no use of the indulgence by a period so early. If the prayer of the petition were good for any thing, it ought to be accompanied by an objection to so early a commencement of the proceedings.Earl Bathurst
586585:—My lords, as I hare no motion now to make, but that her majesty's counsel be called in, I should not have troubled you with any further observations, except that I feel myself bound to answer the questions of my noble and learned friend on the woolsack, which I
586585Lord Erskine
576575R. said;—My Lords; I have just received from Dr. Lushington, who has leave from the House of Commons to appear at the bar of this House as one of the counsel for the queen, a petition from her majesty, which I have been requested to present, and which I do most willingly, because it contains a just and reasonable request. I will read it to your lordships myself before I ask you to accept it. "The Queen laments, my lords, that this House has deemed it proper to refuse her application for a list of witnesses to be examined in support of the bill of Degradation and Dissolution of Marriage, thus leaving her majestyand her legal advisers in total ignorance of the times and places to which the charges may relate, or the persons by whose testimony the allegations on the bill are intended to be supported." This is only preface; she does not call upon your lordships to reconsider this decision, but contents herself with lamenting it, and comes with a new request. This is just my own situation—I exercised my privilege as a peer, and did, as I thought and still think, a duty to my country, by asking your lordships a few days ago to give the list of witnesses as requested; but your lordships having refused it, I must not now put my individual opinion against the judgment of the House, but I have a right to express that I most deeply lament it. Her majesty then goes on to ask that a specification of the places in which the criminal acts are charged to have been committed, be forthwith delivered; for if this be denied, it will be impossible to be prepared to meet the accusation, &c.576575R.Lord Erskine
 rose, and said:—My Lords; I do not intend to intrude any observations of mine upon the attention of your lordships at present. But I think it my duty to take the speediest course of putting an end, if possible, to this unfortunate proceeding. I therefore move, that the order of the day for the second reading of the bill of Pains and Penalties against Her Majesty be rescinded.The Duke of Leinster
617616615***614ex-post-facto rose to state his motives for the course he intended to take upon the present occasion. He thought it due to their lordships and the country, that he should fully enter into the reasons which induced him to oppose the present proceeding. He objected to it, because he felt that it was inconsistent with the public interest; and also because he felt it was inconsistent with their lordships honour, which he conceived would be tarnished if this bill were suffered to proceed one step farther. He felt such strong objections to a bill of this kind, that he was now ready to state, that he could hardly conceive any cause sufficiently forcible to induce him to vote for such a proceeding. But if any case existed in which he could bring his mind to support a bill of Pains and Penalties, it must be one of absolute necessity. Was there, he would ask, one of their lordships, or was there a man throughout the whole country, who conceived that the investigation of these charges, under all the circumstances, was called for by the necessity of the case? Did their lordships believe that the country would be threatened with danger, if those charges had never been instituted? For his own part, he conceived that they did not entertain such an opinion; but on the contrary, every individual who had maturely weighed the subject was, he had no doubt, impressed with the idea that danger was rather to be apprehended from the course they were pursuing. He could not conceive any benefit that could be derived from the further proceeding with this measure, but he could see many difficulties and dangers that were likely to arise from it. Bills of Pains and Penalties had all the effect of 617616615***614ex-post-factoThe Earl of Carnarvon
 proposed that the House should agree upon some plan which might at all events, after another day, supersede the necessity of calling Over the names of the members—a proceeding which occupied, unnecessarily, nearly three quarters of an hour. The mode suggested by his lordship, and upon which some desultory conversation took place, was that every peer, on coming into the House, should write his name, with the hour of his arrival, in a book kept in the anti-chamber for that purpose. Members to be deemed absent whose names should not appear. After a lapse of about twenty minutes the Judges returned to the House, whenThe Earl of Liverpool
 delivered their united opinion to the following effect:—"The judges have conferred together upon the question proposed to them by the House, Whether, if a foreigner, owing no allegiance to the Crown of England, violates, in a foreign country, the wife of the king's eldest son, and she consents thereto, she commits high treason, within the meaning of the act of the 25th of Edward 3rd? And we are of opinion that such an individual, under such circumstances, does not commit high treason, within the meaning of that act." This opinion, his lordship continued, was grounded upon the language of that statute of Edward 3rd, which declared it to be treason for any man to violate the wife of the king, the wife of the king's eldest son, &c.; the judges holding that, unless there were a man who could be legally charged with such a violation—the charge being that he did the act against his allegiance—it could not be said that treason had been committed. An act done by a foreigner, therefore, owing no allegiance to the Crown, could not amount to that crime.The Lord Chief Justice Abbott
633 said, that before the counsel were called in, there was one circumstance which he did not think should be passed over in silence. He understood that among the counsel who were to appear before them, there were no less than five members of the other House of Parliament. It appeared by the votes of the other House, that those learned gentlemen were permitted to attend at their lordships bar. He by no means wished to oppose that step. On the contrary, he had no doubt there were good and sufficient reasons for allowing those gentlemen to appear. There were certainly strong reasons why the queen should not be deprived of the legal assistance of particular persons, nor the Crown of the assistance of the attorney and solicitor-general; but still he thought the privilege was not to be allowed with-a protest against its being drawn into general practice, if any general practice could be founded on that anomalous proceeding. Because, as it was possible that measures of a judicial character might hereafter be taken in the other House of Parliament, he was anxious that, to the many necessary and unavoidable anomalies which were inseparable from this pro-
633The Marquis of Lansdowne
 requested to know by what authority the attorney-general stood in that place?—on whose part he appeared?—and by whom he had been instructed to appear?The Duke of Hamilton
 said, he attended in consequence of an order of their lordships, which had been served upon him by the gentleman usher of the Black Rod—an order by which it was declared that the House would allow counsel to be heard before the second reading of the bill. In obedience to that order, he had considered it his duty either to appear personally, or to depute some other counsel to appear, in support of the bill, and to produce the evidence which was to be laid before the House.The Attorney General
 begged to repeat his second question: by whom had the attorney-general been instructed to appear upon the present occasion? He wished to know from whom that gentleman's instructions had proceeded.The Duke of Hamilton
, as he had already taken the liberty to state to the House, had considered himself bound to appear by the order of their lordships, or to depute other counsel in his stead. In consequence of that order, by which he was required to produce witnesses in support of the bill, he had taken that which appeared to him to be the course immediately open—he had applied for information to those sources from which he thought it most likely to be obtained. He had understood that information upon the subject had been communicated to the secretary of state, and had accordingly applied to that department.The Attorney General
634 said, he was certainly anxious to know who was the prosecutor upon the present occasion;
634The Duke of Hamilton
 said, that the attorney-general had stated, that he attended there, in consequence of the instructions which he had received from the House itself.Lord Holland
 said, he understood that the attorney-general appeared in consequence of an order received from the House. He had taken those steps which to him seemed best for the purpose of obtaining information. He had applied for information to the secretary of state, and with such information as had been obtained, he now appeared for the purpose of opening the case.The Earl of Liverpool
636635 then addressed their lordships to the following effect:—My lords, I have the honour to attend at your lordships bar on behalf of her majesty the queen. I am anxious not to incur the most distant risk of interrupting this court, or of interposing between what any of your lordships may deem fit to say; and I certainly wish to be stopped the moment I appear to be interrupting your lordships. My learned friend, the attorney-general, does not appear to know very exactly in what capacity he attends here. He has said, that a notification has been served upon him by order of your lordships, but in what capacity he attends at your lordships bar, does not very distinctly appear. Whatever uncertainty, however, may exist in the mind of his majesty's attorney-general, or however equivocal the capacity in which he attends here, I and my learned friends have the honour of attending at your lordships bar, distinctly and clearly on behalf of the Queen. The last time I had the honour of standing in this place and in this capacity, your lordships deemed it proper to delay hearing, till a subsequent stage of the proceedings, the arguments which I humbly ventured to tender to your lordships' consideration against the principle of the bill. By the order of your lordships, made on the 6th of July, her Majesty's counsel were informed, that in the observations which they were then permitted to make, they would be confined to the mode of proceeding upon the bill which had been read a first time, and to the time or times of proceeding thereupon. Your lordships will recollect, that I then ventured, not indeed to complain, but to express my extreme regret, that your lordships did not think fit to
636635Mr. Brougham
637 said the regular course would be to call upon his majesty's attorney-general to open the case by producing evidence at their lordships' bar, and then to call upon the counsel on the part of Her Majesty, to answer the case by endeavouring to repel the evidence, and over and above all to object, if they thought fit, to the principle of the bill. This would be the regular course of proceeding; but if he understood the application of the counsel, it was to be heard
637The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that unless some noble lord made a motion, the attorney-general must of course proceed. According to the modern course of proceeding, it was not usual to discuss the principle of the bill before the evidence was gone into. The reason of this was obvious, because if the facts were not proved, there would be no occasion to go into the principle at all.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that many noble lords thought as he did, that even if all the facts alleged against Her Majesty were proved, this bill ought not to pass, the House would have great reason to congratulate itself, if any arguments could be brought forward which would avert these painful disclosures. He repeated, that to whatever extent the allegations might be proved, the bill ought not to pass. Upon these grounds, he trusted their lordships would be ready to hear the arguments of the very able counsel who were now attending at their bar on behalf of Her Majesty, and he should move, therefore, that the counsel be allowed to proceed.Lord Kenyon
 conceived that their lordships had already decided this question. They had come to a resolution to refer a certain question to the judges, with a view, if any real difficulty presented itself, of pursuing some other course. They had heard the opinion of those learned persons, and, according to that opinion, the House might regularly proceed with the present bill. The whole of this question, therefore, resolved itself into one of convenience, and they had only to decide, whether the present time would be more or less convenient than after the evidence was gone through, for hearing arguments directed against the principle of the measure. The ordinary proceeding undoubtedly was, to hear the attorney-general open his case and adduce his evidence; after which it would be competent to counsel on the other side to urge any objection against the form or the substance of the measure.The Earl of Liverpool
638 agreed with
638The Marquis of Lansdowne
 was still of opinion, that this resolution of their lordships' was open to many objections. Evidence might be adduced in the progress of the inquiry on which the Queen's counsel might have to found material arguments against the principle of the measure. They would, notwithstanding, by the terms of this resolution, be precluded from so doing, if they urged any objections of that nature at present. This appeared to him to be a complete deviation from the ordinary and established mode of proceeding.The Earl of Lauderdale
 observed, that this was an instance of the court making a bargain with counsel as to the manner in which they should conduct their cause; and this, he believed, was without any precedent in a judicial inquiry.The Earl of Lauderdale
651650649648v.rectus in curia.647646645nunc pro tunc,644***643642***641quasiex-post-facto640Privilegium odiosum.privilegia;639 said:—I;have, in the first place, to apologise to your lord-
651650649648v.rectus in curia.647646645nunc pro tunc,644***643642***641quasiex-post-facto640Privilegium odiosum.privilegia;639Mr. Brougham
, as soon as Mr. Brougham had retired from the bar, said, that the House, which admitted but two counsel to be heard, would hear the other counsel now.The Lord Chancellor
, at that late hour of the day, when the understood period for the termination of business had arrived, after an anxious attendance, and in his present state of health, trusted that their lordships would extend to him their indulgence by granting him time till to-morrow.Mr. Denman
 was roost ready to comply with the request of the learned counsel, and suggested the propriety of an adjournment.The Earl of Liverpool
 added, that the House would proceed to-morrow, and that only two counsel would be heard for or against the bill.The Lord Chancellor
625 felt some anxiety to explain his notion of the law on this subject. The noble earl had stated his propositions with great clearness, but nothing the noble earl had offered had shaken the opinion he formerly expressed. He would now distinctly avow that he had adopted his reasoning on this subject from reasoning deduced from the text-writers, and he had always felt a very considerable doubt whether they were correct in pushing the doctrine of constructive treason to the extent they had done. The words of the statute of Edward were—"If any man shall violate the wife of our eldest son, he shall be deemed guilty of treason; and if she consent to that violation, she shall be deemed guilty of treason also." Before he proceeded farther he wished to say, that the duty he was called on to perform was more painful to him than any ever imposed on him in the course of his life; but, when called on to give his opinion on a point of law, he would do so, however painful the task might be. The statute said—if the wife consented to the adultery, it would be, on her part, high treason; and then came the question, whether, under any possible exposition of the words of the act, it could be said that a man who violated the wife of the king's eldest son committed no crime, but that the female did? Yet this position must be maintained, if the noble earl's construction of the law were correct; because a foreigner, owing no allegiance to the Crown of this realm, did not, by the act of adultery, commit an offence against the state. To constitute criminality in the woman, it was necessary that the man, who was the
625The Lord Chancellor
626 said, that nothing could be more fair or candid, than the whole statement of the noble earl. Although he differed from him on particular points, he felt not the slightest objection to any one of the general principles he had laid down. Every party concerned in this business would have full and ample justice done to them—a sentiment which he thought most properly introduced by the noble earl in the course of his speech. He hoped, if this question was brought to their lordships' bar in the manner now intended, that every peer in the House would consider it as a judicial proceeding, and treat it in that light alone. On other points a political bias might sometimes influence the decisions of individuals; but the present was a question on which no political bias should be suffered to influence the mind of any man. No individual, whether privately or politically connected with him, would hurt his feelings if he voted against him on this occasion. In doing so, that individual would only discharge his duty as a peer and a man, by pursuing the course his conscience pointed out to him. The objections made by the noble earl (Carnarvon) appeared to him extremely ill-timed. The proper period for offering them would have been before the adjournment of their lordships, and previously to their having fixed the second reading of the bill for the 17th of August; because, if it were thought necessary to get rid of this measure altogether, that necessity should have been stated at the earliest possible period. The present was not a time to review the conduct of his majesty's government. This important question he would, how-
626The Earl of Liverpool
ex post facto629628627 was perfectly satisfied with the noble earl's explanation. His opinion was, that when ministers, from a sense of duty, determined to bring this question forward, no results could be produced satisfactory either to the illustrious individual, or in unison with the peace of the country, except by proceeding with the present inquiry. That being the view which ministers took of the subject, the bill of pains and penalties had
ex post facto629628627The Earl of Liverpool
630 wished to state the reasons why he voted against the motion of the duke of Leinster. He could not go the length of some noble lords in that House, and of many individuals out of doors, who were of opinion that, under no circumstances, ought a bill of pains and penalties to be introduced to parliament. With the deepest sense of all the inconveniences and difficulties that were attached to such a proceeding, he yet felt that the House should not part with a power which, when judiciously applied, might effect the salvation of the state. There was but one ground upon which the House ought for a moment to have entertained the bill now before them; there was but one ground upon which he had been induced for a moment to allow that bill to remain upon the table: that ground was the allegation of those who, upon their responsibility, introduced the bill, that there were no other means of considering a crime which they, the promoters of the bill, declared to have been committed, and the punishment of which was essential to the safety of the country. Disapproving of all the preli-
630The Marquis of Lansdowne
 said, that after I the vote which the House had originally come to, he could scarcely hope to offer any thing which would have the effect of changing their opinion; but, for himself, he would cheerfully adopt any course which would be likely to put an end to the present strange and most anomalous proceeding. It had been said, that this was not a time, after a charge was distinctly made, to alter the mode of proceeding; but he did not see that any more distinct charge was before the House now than had been presented in the commencement of the business; and it should be recollected, that, upon every part of the process of a bill, upon every succeeding stage, parliament had reserved to itself the privilege of consideration. There was one circumstance, however, upon which he must confess himself at a loss. His noble friend (earl Grey) had said, that he would not vote for a bill of pains and penalties, except upon a charge of direct adultery. Now, he would take upon himself to say, that no such thing as a direct charge of adultery was to be found from the beginning to the end of the present bill. His lordship concluded by declaring his readiness to wave his former suggestion, and to concur in any proposal which might put an end to the present course—a course which promised nothing but pure and unqualified evil.The Earl of Carnarvon
, in explanation, conceived that, although the crime of adultery was not stated in so many words, yet it was most distinctly charged under the general terms of the bill.Earl Grey
 said, in explanation, that his observation was, that it was originally a matter of consideration for his majesty's government, whether they would or would not bring those charges forward; but, having laid them before their lordships, it was impossible for them not to enter on the investigation.Earl Grey
 thought the course to be pursued might be fairly left to the discretion of the learned counsel.Earl Grey
624623622621620l619ex-post facto618 said, that during the whole course of his political life, he had never
624623622621620l619ex-post facto618Earl Grey
656655654653652, her majesty's Solicitor-general, then addressed their lordships. He commenced his address to the House by thanking their lordships for the indulgence which had on the preceding day been extended to him. It now became his duty, the learned counsel said, to state to the House the objections he had to urge against the bill which was before them; and it would require no argument of his to convince their lordships, that the
656655654653652Mr. Denman
674673672671l.670669fiat justitia, ruat cœlum.668667ex parte666665664663662661l.660659658beau657ex-parte continued.—It was for these reasons that he protested against the principle of the bill, which he could only view as an enumeration of doubtful circumstances proceeding upon an 674673672671l.670669fiat justitia, ruat cœlum.668667ex parte666665664663662661l.660659658beau657ex-parteMr. Denman
689688687ex post factoex post facto686ex post facto685684683682681680679678677676675 then addressed their lordships. He could not, he said, refrain from observing, after his learned friends had addressed their lordships with so much ability in this stage of the proceeding, that he thought they could have he reason to regret the election they had made subsequently to the objection which was taken yesterday; because (undoubtedly, in consequence of the license with which their lordships bad indulged them upon the present occasion) they had had all the advantage which they possibly could have obtained in this stage of the proceeding, by statements of facts, which, although they were all introduced into this part of the case as facts, he must contend were not yet founded on the evidence before their lordships; by assumptions, gratuitously made; and by calumnies—(an expression by which he
689688687ex post factoex post facto686ex post facto685684683682681680679678677676675The Attorney General
698697696nunc pro tunc.695694693692ex post factoex post facto691690 followed on the same side. He began by saying, that he had also to trouble their lordships on that which had been properly characterised as a most important and most momentous question. He confessed that he participated in the feelings which had been expressed by the attorney-general respecting the conduct pursued by the learned gentlemen on the other side. He had understood that they came to their lordships bar calmly and temperately to discuss a grave, dry, legal, constitutional question: such he conceived to have been the question proposed by the House to the counsel on both sides. But his learned friends, deviating from this course and indulging in personal invective, had accused the individuals who had instituted this proceeding of the most corrupt conduct, and had charged the persons who assisted in collecting the evidence, with subornation of perjury, and the most horrible violation of justice, in attempting to make out a case against the high personage accused. The learned gentlemen, by
698697696nunc pro tunc.695694693692ex post factoex post facto691690The Solicitor General
709708lacqueys de place.proprio marte.707706705eo nomine?usque ad nauseam,prima impressionis.704703702701700699 proceeded to reply.—I confess, my lords, that after having given the utmost attention to the arguments which have been urged by my learned friends who appear as counsel against her majesty, I feel myself hardly called upon in the discharge of my duty to my royal client to avail myself of the usual privilege of reply. At all events I purpose to confine myself to a very few topics among those which have been urged by my learned friends. With this view, and with the full intention of keeping a promise which is more frequently made than observed, I purpose, without further preface, to solicit your lordships' attention to several of those topics. First of all, suffer me to observe, that a general and somewhat vague charge has been adduced of our having deviated from the point stated to be in issue before the House, namely, the principle of the bill. It has been said that I have gone into arguments which belong to another stage of the proceedings, and that I have entered into a great mass of collateral matter in no way relevant to the matter in issue. I think my learned friend would not have brought forward this charge, if he had adverted to the manner in which I submitted my arguments to your lordships' notice. Suffer me to remind your lordships, that I set out with stating that this was a legislative proceeding. The question was, whether a new law should be made by parliament, and in making objections to that new law, every argument was relevant which had a tendency to arrest the course of the legislature? We stand in a very different situation from that in which we should have been placed, if we had had to meet articles of impeachment, or to defend in a proceeding by
709708lacqueys de place.proprio marte.707706705eo nomine?usque ad nauseam,prima impressionis.704703702701700699Mr. Brougham
 said it was his intention to propose a resolution to their lordships to this effect, viz., "that it is not necessary either for the public safety, or the security of the government, that the bill intituled, "An Act to deprive Her Majesty of the Title, Prerogatives, Rights, & c. of Queen Consort, should pass into a law."Lord King
 said, that the impression made upon his mind by the arguments used by the learned counsel was very strong against proceeding with the bill. He therefore wished that time should be given to their lordships to consider what ought to be done upon this proposition, and hoped his noble friend would postpone his motion till to-morrow, when their lordships would all Come better prepared for the discussion. If he were now forced to come to a decision, he so strongly felt the inconvenience of the course in which they were engaged, that he should certainly be disposed to adopt some other mode than a bill of Pains and Penalties.Earl Grey
ex post facto715714ex post facto713712711 rose. He said, that the counsel on both sides having yesterday closed their arguments, this, it appeared to him, was the only opportunity that remained for a member of their lordships' House to endeavour by some means or other to avert those evils and difficulties, which he, in common with many of their lordships, and with the great body of the public, felt most strongly to be intimately connected with the course they were pursuing—evils and difficulties, the peculiar nature of which it was not necessary for him to state. Nothing which he had heard in the course of the argument submitted to their lordships by the learned counsel who appeared in support of this measure, had tended in the smallest degree to shake the full conviction which he previously entertained, that bills of pains and penalties ought only to be resorted to on great public occasions, when the safety of the state was involved, when the stability of the government was endangered, and when, from their adoption, some extraordinary benefit was likely to be derived. He would ask, as had been most properly asked by a noble lord (Carnarvon) on the preceding day, whether any individual, either in that House or out of it, entertained a serious apprehension that mischief would ensue if this bill were not proceeded with? Not one of their lordships had said that he entertained any degree of fear on that head; and no person whatsoever would, he believed, be found, to declare that he entertained a rational fear of danger if the progress of the measure were stopped. The dread of danger to the royal succession was the only circumstance that could justify this bill; and the circumstances of the case must preclude any such apprehension.ex post facto715714ex post facto713712711Lord King
721720ex post factoquestio omissa;719contra bonos mores,718de jure,717716 said, he rose at that early hour, as he was anxious to state the reasons which induced him to differ entirely from the noble lord, and why he should propose, as an amendment, that the counsel be directed to be called in. In stating the arguments which he had to offer on this subject he would endeavour to abstain from any observation of an inflammatory nature, for he was extremely desirous to treat this question in every stage of it, even in the present, as a purely
721720ex post factoquestio omissa;719contra bonos mores,718de jure,717716The Earl of Liverpool
740 was speaking against the motion for calling in counsel. He begged their lordships to reflect how responsible parliament was for allowing a person of her Majesty's high rank to go abroad. By this step they removed the influence of public opinion, which was a great check on female conduct; and their lordships, by acquiescing in her leaving the country, submitted to the necessity of proving such charges as the present by the testimony of foreigners. He did not consider this a bar to all proceedings, for, after the report which the secret committee had submitted to the House, he thought the moral welfare of the state imperiously called for an inquiry; but he thought it advisable, that some expedient should be adopted that would put a stop to this particular bill, and at the same time pledge the House to pursue any other course of proceeding that the circumstances of the case might demand. Another point was, the difficulty that might arise from the other House of parliament rejecting the bill in its present
740Lord Calthorpe
743742 addressed their lordships as follows:—My lords; In obedience to your lordships' order, I now attend at your bar to fulfil the duty which your commands have cast upon me, of stating to your lordships the circumstances to be adduced in evidence in support of the charges contained in the preamble of the bill now under your lordships consideration. A duty, my lords, more painful or more anxious I believe was never cast upon any individual than that which I have now to perform. I have, my lords, to state to your lordships the circumstances which are to be adduced in evidence at your lordships bar, in support of the serious and heavy charges which are made in the preamble to the bill now under your lordships' consideration against the highest subject of this country—charges which not only reflect the greatest scandal and dishonour upon the individual against whom they are made, but also reflect great dishonour upon the country itself—the highest individual a subject in the country is charged with one of the most serious offences both against the laws of God and of man—that of an adulterous intercourse,
743742Mr. Attorney-General
. Persuasion, not compulsion.Mr. Brougham
. I am sure that my learned friends do not desire to embarrass me; I know them too well: but observations made in a tone of voice to be heard are apt to embarrass one. But appearing before so public an assembly, and with the public expectation, and with the consciousness of my inability to do justice to the trust your lordships have cast upon me, I am sure I shall receive your lordships' indulgence for that embarrassment which no man, even of stronger nerves and greater power than myself, would be able to counteract.Mr. Attorney General
. My lords; I am sure I did not mean to embarrass my learned friend: I am the last man to do it: but I am sure your lordships will permit—[Order, order!] In every court it is allowed.— [Order, order!]Mr. Brougham
 Go on.Lord Chancellor.
760759758757756755754753752751750749748747746745744 I am sure my learned friend will not believe that I alluded to him with any idea that he meant to embarrass me. I was stating, that in the year 1814 her majesty left this country for the purpose of travelling on the continent, and of visiting other countries that she had a desire to visit. She went, in the first instance, to her native country, Brunswick, and from thence, after a short interval, proceeded to Italy, and arrived at Milan I think about the 9th of October 1814. My lords; her majesty, when she quitted this country, quitted it with attendants, and with persons about her princely person—she being at that time Princess of Wales—suitable to her rank, and moving in that exalted station which one would naturally expect would be the case with persons whom she selected for her immediate attendants. She was accompanied, as might naturally be expected from an English princess, by very distinguished females of the country in which she enjoyed that high rank. Her establishment at that time consisted of two ladies of great rank—lady Charlotte Lindsay and lady Elizabeth Forbes, who
760759758757756755754753752751750749748747746745744Mr. Attorney General.
—My lords, I must beg leave to set the learned counsel right, by stating, that it was not Mr. Drummond Burrell who accompanied her majesty.Lord Gwydir.
774773772771770769768767766765764763762761—My lords; I mean Mr. William Burrell. I am sure your lordships will believe that I am betrayed into the error by carelessness, but that I did not mean the slightest reflection upon the noble lord, or upon the gentleman whose name I mentioned. My lords, I am stating to your lordships the facts—I mean not the slightest reflection upon any of those gentlemen whose names I have mentioned; but that Mr. William Burrell was the only English gentleman who had replaced those gentlemen I have stated to your lordships, and that he accompanied her majesty on that tour from Milan to Venice. I am not imputing to Mr. William Burrell—far from it—the slightest suspicion. I have no doubt he was ignorant of that which was taking place in her majesty's family. I undoubtedly did not state that Mr. Burrell was cognizant of the facts I have stated. I am sure your lordships will excuse me in the difficult task I have to perform, and will excuse the error into which I fell. I was about to state to your lordships a fact which took place at Venice. My lords, at Venice, upon one occasion, when after her majesty had dined, and her attendants had withdrawn from the table, and she was left in the room with Bergami, who had been waiting upon that occasion, and was still, as I have stated to your lordships, in the situation of courier, it was observed, not by one of
774773772771770769768767766765764763762761Mr. Attorney General.
—My lords, the hour has arrived at which your lordships proposed to adjourn.Lord Chancellor.
—Has the Attorney-general nearly concluded?A Peer.
—I should state to your lordships, that I have not got through one half of the disgusting narrative I must state to your lordships.Mr. Attorney General.
724723sine qua non722 had not so understood the opinion to be qualified; but in its present shape it much more met with his concurrence. Taking it for granted that what the noble earl now stated was correct, the noble earl would not dispute that he had followed it up by saying, that the accusation having been made, he did not see how it was possible to do otherwise than bring it to the test of proof. The noble earl asked, where was the difference between her majesty's being
724723sine qua non722The Earl of Liverpool
 explained. He doubted whether a sentence of the House would have that effect, except it were followed by some special act of parliament.The Earl of Liverpool
739738ex parte737736735734, in continuation, said, that the noble earl had enumerated a variety of cases in which degradation had been decreed by that House; and that their abridgment was almost enough for the case of his (earl Grey's) argument. His lordship had referred to the case of lord Strangford expressly to show, as he understood it, that upon an occasion when the House of Lords wished to inflict degradation, the House of Lords in Ireland found it necessary to resort to a bill of pains and penalties, and not to an impeachment. But he thought he could show the noble earl, that they had other reasons for that course, and did not think that a sentence of degradation could only be effected by a bill of pains and penalties. In that particular case, their lordships would recollect that the offence charged was committed by him in the House of Lords, in his capacity of a peer of parliament. Now he did not know, in such an instance, how evidence could well be given before the House of Commons: such offence having been committed by him as a peer of parliament, and in the exercise of his parliamentary duties, it was fair to suppose that an argument might arise' in the House of Commons upon the inquiry, the
739738ex parte737736735734Earl Grey
733732a mensa el thoro:731730729728727726 began by complimenting the noble earl who had just set down on his most fair and candid statement, and at the same time most powerful and eloquent appeal to the judgment and feelings of the House. He rose under all the impressions which a speech of such effect must naturally produce, and consequently with a disposition, before he entered upon topics where he wa3 unfortunately obliged to differ, to take advantage of those on which he could express his concurrence. He should set out, therefore, with stating, that if this bill were to pass into a law, and were ultimately to be considered the fit mode of proceeding on this great and unfortunate question, he agreed with the noble earl in thinking that the clause relating to the divorce was by far the least important part of it; he was also ready to receive the assurance that it was not deemed a main object in the illustrious quarter to which reference had been made. He thought, likewise, that if in consequence of the clear proof of the charges, it were necessary to proceed to the degradation of the Queen, the clause of divorce would follow, not as a measure of release to the King, but as a measure which the public interest made necessary to preserve the character and dignity of the throne. He could not reconcile it with any principle of propriety or justice, that if the Queen were degraded for such crimes, she should be left the wife of the king of Great Britain. He no less agreed with the noble earl (and he was anxious to state his concurrence) in the regret he had expressed, at the mention of topics by the counsel at the bar, who doubtless had felt the most painful necessity of introducing them. The object, no doubt, was, that they might operate favourably for their client; but, giving them full credit for their motives (as from his knowledge of them he was bound to do), he could not help thinking that they had been governed by a mistaken discretion, and that they would not only have better consulted their own feelings, but the advantage of the case they advocated, if they had abstained. To the illustrious person the object of their remarks he must pay that tribute which even the counsel could not withhold, and which the noble earl had repeated—a tribute to the high and meritorious services he had performed for the public, and which established an undoubted claim to the affection and confidence of the people.733732a mensa el thoro:731730729728727726Earl Grey
 rose to set the noble earl right. He had certainly said, that if the noble lords opposite were in possession of proofs against her majesty such as they declared that they had, and that no considerations of public expediency operated in a contrary direction, they ought, whether the Queen were at home or abroad, to have made up their minds to proceed. He had mentioned both propositions— the decisive nature of the evidence, and the question of public expediency—which might militate against its production. Ministers ought to have acted promptly in the first instance, either by bringing forward the charges, or by dropping them altogether.Earl Grey
778777776775 resumed his speech, as follows:—778777776775Mr. Attorney General
—What is the date of this?Lord Chancellor.
791vice versâ,790789788787786785784783782781780779—The 12th of April, my lord. She was at Utica on the 8th of April, in the year 1816. Savona is in Africa, near Tunis. I may have mistaken the name: it is either pronounced Savoan or Savona. I have it Savona. She visited that place on the 12th of April, 1816. I was stating to your lord-
791vice versâ,790789788787786785784783782781780779Mr. Attorney-General.
—What is the date of that?Lord Chancellor
—In the early part of 1817; January or February 1817.Mr. Attorney General.
—What is the date of the carnival?Earl Grosvenor.
794793792—The latter end
794793792Mr. Attorney General.
—Will you favour me with the date of that?Mr. Brougham.
796795—About July 1817. Your lordships will have it proved
796795Mr. Attorney-General.
—Have the goodness to mention the date of each particular transaction. It will be a great relief to the House.Lord Chancellor.
—I do not know whether it is the wish of your lordships that I should specify each particular fact which I have stated as I have gone along.Mr. Attorney-General.
—Go on, do not go back.Lord Chancellor.
797—My lords, her arrival at D' Este was on the 11th of April 1817, at Ruffinelli about the 29th of June in that year, and at the Villa Brande within a few days of her arrival at Ruffinelli, which would be early in the year 1817. She was at the same place in April, and in May; she was at the Barona, January 1817; she quitted that residence, on the 27th of February for her tour into Germany by the Tyrol, and she returned to the same place for a short time in the following month of April, and went from there to Rome, and afterwards to Ruffi-nelli in the month of June, and continued there till the July of that year, and from thence went to Pesaro, where she arrived about the 9th of August 1817. At Pesaro, as I have stated to your lordships, her majesty resided from that period until her departure for this country, except for a short time, when she visited France, and occasionally other places.797Mr. Attorney-General
—At what period was it that her majesty went to reside at Pesaro, and when did she leave it? for it may be of considerable importance to state that.Lord Dundas.
803802801800799798—My lords, the fact to which I called your lordships attention of her majesty going to Pesaro was in the month of August 1817. My lords, I have abstained in this case from going through a variety of particulars, many of which will be produced in evidence. You will hear detailed what was the course of her majesty's conduct at the Villa d'Este. When she resided on the banks of the Lago di Como, it will be proved she was constantly in the habit of going out alone with Bergami in a sort of carriage which was so constructed as to be only large enough for one person to sit down in, find consequently one must sit upon the lap of the other. In this carriage it will be proved that she used to go out with Bergami, sitting in his lap, he having his arms round her neck for the purpose of driving. There also she is seen with him, as it will be proved before your lordships in evidence, upon the lake in a canoe, and upon one occasion bathing with Bergami in an open situation in the river Brescia. Upon other occasions they are seen by various persons during her majesty's residence at Como in most indecent situations, kissing each other; and many other familiarities will be proved to have taken place during her residence at Como by various witnesses, which I am sure your lordships will think it better for me to abstain from detailing. I shall therefore content myself with only calling your lordships attention to the circumstances generally, as showing the familiar intercourse that subsisted between her and Bergami.—My lords, upon the return of her majesty from the East, she brought in her train a man who, from the accounts given of him by the witnesses, appears to have been of the most brutal and depraved habits—a person called by the name of Mahomet, who at the Villa d'Este, as will be proved to your lordships, exhibited the greatest indecencies at various times in the presence of her majesty and Bergami. They were present at the time those exhibitions took place—exhibitions, my lords, which are too disgusting for me to do more than allude to; and it is with the greatest pain that I am compelled at all to advert to them; but the evidence of so
803802801800799798Mr. Attorney-General.
 said, that in accordance with the usual course of their proceedings, the witnesses might be questioned before their departure from the House as to where they were about to go. He agreed that they ought to be kept within call, and remain in attendance till the end of the cause; and therefore now moved, "That the witnseses do attend from day to day till further orders."The Lord Chancellor
 expressed a wish that the House should distinctly understand in what situation the witnesses would be placed, and that it should be known whether, on their coming to that bar, they would be liable upon the evidence which they gave to an indictment for perjury. Their lordships were now proceeding in a legislative capacity, but the King's attorney-general was employed to conduct the case brought under their consideration. This, it appeared, was done upon an order of the House itself. Undoubtedly their lordships might commit a witness for falsehood or prevarication, for the term of their own sitting; but as it was not improbable that they might have to revise parts of this proceeding, it was desirable to learn whether the witnesses would be in the same predicament as in a court of record.Lord King
 said, that if the noble lord's question were put to his experience, he could make no answer; but on general principles he would state his opinion, that the witnesses might be prosecuted at law for perjury.The Lord Chancellor
 observed, that his doubt arose from the circumstance of their now sitting, not in their judicial, but in a legislative capacity.Lord King
804 remarked, that in his apprehension what might be done
804The Earl of Liverpool
 was of opinion that this was a question of law, not of parliamentary privilege; but it might be doubted whether a prosecution could be commenced without the special order of the House.Lord King
 was called in.Then Teodoro Majoochi
 asked, whether he appeared by any order of the House, or at the instance of the party promoting the present bill? He wished to ascertain this point, because upon the answer which he received would depend his right to introduce an interpreter on the part of her majesty.Mr. Brougham
 thought there could be no objection to inquiring of the interpreter himself by whom he had been engaged to offer himself to the House in that capacity.The Lord Chancellor
 then addressed the marchese Spineto, and asked, in whose employment he appeared there as an interpreter?—I received my instructions from Mr. Planta and Mr. Maule.Mr. Brougham
—Do you mean Mr, Planta of the foreign office, and Mr. Maule, solicitor to the Treasury?—I do.Mr. Brougham.
—That, then, is quite. a sufficient reason for my desiring to have a second interpreter sworn. Though it may not, strictly speaking, be necessary at this moment, it may be more convenient to swear him immediately.Mr. Brougham.
805 then stated, that the witness now called appearing by the name to come from Italy, and whom he therefore assumed to be a Catholic, was now about to be sworn at their lordships bar; now was therefore the time for him to urge any objection to the taking the oath. He desired, therefore, that he might be
805Mr. Brougham
—Do you understand English? Nothing.Mr. Brougham.
806—In what situation was Pergami serving under general Pino? As valet de chambre.806Mr. Solicitor General.
811810809808807 When you entered the service, did Pergami dine with the rest of the servants? There were two fables.811810809808807Mr. Solicitor General.
812 here observed, that he trusted the solicitor-general would take care that no other witnesses remained
812Mr. Brougham
 could have no possible objection to the removal and separation of witnesses. He was not aware that any witness for the bill was present, except the one under examination.The Solicitor General
 said the rule of course embraced all the witnesses, both for and against, always of course excepting those whose duty it was to remain present.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that his only wish was, to have the practice respecting witnesses observed here as in other courts. He wished it to be strictly general. He put it, therefore, not alone in point of strict practice, but in candour to his learned friend (Mr. Brougham), to take care that his witnesses should be excluded.The Solicitor General
 replied, most undoubtedly; he had no other wish than that the exclusion should be strictly general. All whom he knew he intended to call, he wished should be out of the House; of course he could not mean that the prohibition should extend to any of those whose duty it was to remain. There might be one or two whose duty it was to remain, that he might have hereafter to call.Mr. Brougham
 commented on the expression used by his learned friend, "all whom he knew he intended to call," He submitted to his candour whether all should not remain out that there appeared the smallest probability of his calling.The Solicitor General
 ssured his learned friend that he did not mean to speak equivocally; he meant to deal fairly and candidly, and his learned friend might safely leave the matter to his candour, as he had appealed to it. Of course it was quite impossible for him to know, at this moment, what witnesses it might be necessary for him to call. He could not tell, until his learned friend's case was closed, whether he should call any witnesses or not. If he only heard such witnesses as the present called, he certainly should not call any. [A laugh.] He again assured his learned friend that he meant to exclude his witnesses until the time arrived for their examination.Mr. Brougham
813—You described, that the two apartments were separated from each other by a wall, and that there was a
813Mr. Solicitor-General.
 objected to this question. He could not think their lordships would permit his learned friend to make his own witness contradict himself. If the answer were given in one way, it. might contradict the preceding answer given by the witness. He must object to this way of pursuing an examination. If was, in fact, to put leading questions.Mr. Brougham
 disclaimed any intention of putting what could with propriety be called a leading question.The Solicitor General
 What is the question you mean to put?The Lord Chancellor.
 I shall put it in this way, my lord—whether the witness after he left Genoa ever returned there to embark for Venice?The Solicitor General.
—Where was this? If I do not mistake, I believe it to have been at the Caza Villani.Mr. Solicitor General.
818817816 said, that though he thought a counsel might put one question to a witness which would have the effect of contradicting a preceding answer given by that witness, yet that such a question ought not, nor need not, be put in a leading shape.818817816Lord Erskine
 observed, that it might be expedient to come immediately to an understanding, with regard to the situation of the witnesses, after they should have delivered their testimony. It might be material to the ends of justice that they should be placed in a station of security, and be forthcoming, if, on a subsequent occasion, their presence should be found necessary.Lord Erskine
—Explain what you mean by the expressions you have just made use of whether they were usually near or usually at a distance? Nearer than far, more near than far.Mr. Solicitor General.
 stated that he had been misunderstood.Mr. Brougham
 During the absence of Pergami on horseback, in the manner you have described, did the princess ask for him? She did.Mr. Solicitor General.
 submitted whether this question could be put as against Pergami, without evidence of the conduct of the Queen to bring them together.Mr. Brougham
 After it was communicated by you to Pergami that the princess wanted him, where did Pergami go to?Mr. Solicitor General.
840 After you had communicated to Pergami that the princess had asked for him during his absence, what did he do, where did he go to? Into his own room.840Mr. Solicitor General.
 submitted, that the princess and Mahomet should be first brought together, and then a question asked, What passed while they were together? in order to prevent the witness misconceiving the question, and forgetting the reservation.Mr. Brougham
 Was the trick, or whatever you allude to, one that he was in the habit of making?Mr. Solicitor General.
 submitted, that this question ought to be put with a guard; only those parts of his habit which were brought home to the knowledge of her majesty being receivable in evidence.Mr. Brougham
 Describe what this Giuoco was, to which you allude, before the princess.Mr. Solicitor General.
 Was any thing done by Mahomet, upon that occasion, with any part of his dress? He made use of the linen of his large pantaloons.Mr. Solicitor General.
 Describe with accuracy what was done with the pantaloons or trowsers; how were the trowsers prepared? He made them strike forward; go backwards and forwards.Mr. Solicitor General.
 submitted, that Mr. Brougham was assuming, as the bases of his questions, facts which did not appear at present to exist, which he conceived to be irregular, even in cross-examination.The Solicitor General
845 Were all the parts high and low, of her royal highness's suite, with the exception of Pergami, always in perfect health during the time they were at Naples? I do not remember.845Mr. Btoughtam.
Non so."non mi ricordo?""non mi ricordo," desired, that that which he had stated might be translated.Non so."non mi ricordo?""non mi ricordo,"Mr. Brougham
846 You gave us an account yesterday of having knocked one night at Pergami's door at Genoa so loud that he must have heard you, and that he gave no answer? I did.846Mr. Brougham.
 objected to the question, as assuming there was a person of the name of Ompteda, and secondly, that he was a friend of the witness; and also assuming that there was a gang of which the friend of the witness was a party.The Solicitor General
 stated, that he had put the question in that form to save time, but would put it with more minuteness. Did not somebody that night come and attack a window of the house? Yes, some thieves.Mr. Brougham
 stated to their lordships, in excuse for sir W. Gell having been present, that he had excepted those persons who were in official attendance, and that sir W. Gell was in official attendance upon her Majesty, but that he had now withdrawn, and would not in future be present.Mr. Brougham
 stated, that lord Llandaff was ordered to attend as a witness for her majesty; that he had applied to the Attorney General for his consent for his lordship to be present; that as that consent might not be sufficient, he now begged to apply to the House for permission for lord Landaff to be present.Mr. Denman
847 requested to be informed, whether the rule was intended to apply to those who were professionally engaged on either side, or whether it would be necessary to hand in to their lordships, a list of those gentlemen necessarily attendant on
847The Attorney General
 After the robbers had attacked or threatened the house, and you had fired upon them in the way you have described, was not the whole house alarmed by what had taken place? I immediately ran to knock at the door, and then in going down stairs I found that all the people had collected, or were coming down stairs.Mr. Brougham.
 Where were you when Pergami did what you call, come out? I knocked at the door, received no answer, and went down stairs, and then all the family was coming out; and then I saw Pergami come out in about a quarter of an hour afterwards.Mr. Brougham.
 objected to this question, as an incorrect statement of the answer.Mr. Solicitor General
848 How soon after you fired the piece did you see Pergami, and the rest of the household come out? I fired, ran to the room of Pergami, knocked, and received no
848Mr. Brougham.
854853852851850849 Will you swear that you ever in your life, saw Victorine sleep in any
854853852851850849Mr. Brougham.
858857856855Interpreter. to the Marchese.—Give us in Italian, the very words the witness said? He answered "sempre," and in the same breath, he added, "le piu parti," and that as far as I can collect it is, for the most part I was more sick than well.858857856855Interpreter.Mr. Brougham
859 You saw them yourself? Yes.859Mr. Brougham.
862861860 Did you ever write a letter to Bartolomeo Pergami, or Schiavini, or Vassali, after leaving her royal highness's service? Never: because for my misfortune I know very little to write.862861860Mr. Brougham.
Interpreter.864863 Did you ever see the baron Ompteda? I do not remember that name.Interpreter.864863Mr. Brougham.
867866865 Had you made money, and saved a little fortune in her royal highness's service? I had put by seven hundred livres.867866865Mr. Brougham.
869868 Did you ever before go, at your father's desire, any where to speak to colonel Brown, or colonel any body else? Never, before my father spoke to me, I never vent to any place.869868Mr. Brougham.
 objected to the question, as assuming that the witness was at an hotel, which he had not stated.The Solicitor General
—Is it an inn at which you lodge? I do not know whether it be an inn.Mr. Brougham.
 on reference to the Minutes stated, that the former answer of the witness was, that they were separated.The Solicitor General
 stated, that the Italian word used by the witness was "lontano," which meant "far off."Mr. Brougham
873 objected to any interposition to alter the Minutes after they had been taken down by the short-hand-writer, and acquiesced as a correct translation.873The Solicitor General
 objected to the question, as assuming that some person gave him money at Vienna.The Solicitor General
"non mi ricordo;""piu no;""non so;" —Who gave you money at Vienna before you left it? My father paid the journey; nobody gave me money: my father paid me my journey, and I remember that nobody gave me money."non mi ricordo;""piu no;""non so;"Mr. Brougham.
 being directed by their lordships to state whether he agreed in the interpretation given by the marchese di Spineto, stated that he did.Mr. Cohen
non mi ricordo said, that it was most essential that the House should understand what the meaning of non mi ricordoThe Earl of Rosebery
 begged that the last answer given by the witness should be repeated to him by the interpreter, from the short-hand writer's notes.Lord Longford
 thought the better course would be for their lordships to leave the questions as they stood upon the cross-examination; and afterwards, when the regular time came for their scrutiny, to put such questions as they pleased.The Marquis of Lansdown
 stated, that the usual practice was, for the counsel to proceed in their examination, cross-examination, and re-examination, before their lordships interposed.The Lord Chancellor
—Mr. Brougham, proceed with your cross-examination.The Lord Chancellor.
—My lords, I have done with the witness. I have no farther questions to ask of him. In a common case I should certainly be satisfied with this examination. In this case I have certainly no reason to desire to ask him a single question further.Mr. Brougham.
 objected to the question as leading.Mr. Brougham
—Upon your arrival at Milan, to which place you say you were conducted by your father, were you examined as to your knowledge of the conduct of the princess of Wales during the time that you were in her royal highness's service? I was.Mr. Solicitor General.
875—You have stated that after this examination you returned to
875Mr. Solicitor General.
 submitted, that if the rules of courts of justice were to be adhered to, as he understood they were to be in this case, the reexamination could only apply to points which arose out of the cross-examination, and his learned friend was proceeding into new matter. He made this observation merely for sake of regularity.Mr. Brougham
 said, that he was as anxious to preserve regularity as his learned friend, and maintained that he was quite regular, as he was proceeding to interrogate the witness with respect to his movements since his arrival in this country, the cross-examination having applied to the witness's journey, as well as to what happened to him in London.The Solicitor General
 denied that he had put a single question with regard to the witness's journey to Holland, however he might have interrogated him as to his motions while resident in this country.Mr. Brougham
876 argued, that his learned friend had put several questions to the witness with respect to what happened to him upon his journey, how he went from Vienna to Milan, how he went back, what became of him upon his arrival in London, palpably with a view to cast a doubt upon the character of his testimony, and to induce an inference, that he was delivering his evidence from some overruling, improper motive. He apprehended, therefore, that, to repel such an inference, he was entitled to examine the witness with regard to all his motions, from the time he left Milan up to the hour of his appearance at the bar. If it were otherwise, especially where the character of the witness was questioned, it would be in the power of a counsel to take up the evidence by piecemeal, to present garbled statements, and to give a false colouring to all the motives, circumstances and conduct of the witness. But the course for which he contended, was not only accord-
876The Solicitor General
 here offered himself to the attention of the House, and meeting some interruption from a cry of "Order,"Mr. Brougham
 said, "Mr. Brougham, you have the right of reply."The Lord Chancellor
 expressed a hope that he would be allowed to exercise that right in the usual way of courts of justice, where an advocate was not interrupted by any cries of approbation or disapprobation from the judges. He repeated that he made his objection to the course of examination which his learned friend was pursuing, merely with a view to preserve regularity. It was his original-intention to have gone into every particular connected with the journey and movements of the witness, but from what had transpired this morning and yesterday, he felt such a proceeding unnecessary. If he had put any question to the witness which could warrant the course of re-examination proposed by his learned friend, it would be easy to point it out; and unless that could be done, he maintained that the question to which he had just objected was inadmissible. But if he did not forget himself as much as other persons appeared to have done in the course of this examination, he had never put any such question. He had not indeed said one word as to the witness's journey unless as to that from Vienna to Milan and back again. He had put no question as to the witness's journey from Vienna to London, or even as to his trip into Holland. Under these circumstances, he thought his learned friend could not consistently prosecute his proposed inquiry. Indeed, if his learned friend were allowed to do so, he saw nothing to prevent him from going back before the witness's journey from Vienna to Milan, as well as to other points which had not been touched in the cross-examination; nay, into the birth, parentage, and education of the witness. His motive for pressing this objection was, to guard against any irregularity in those proceedings.Mr. Brougham
877 stated, that whatever difference there might be with respect to the rules of evidence in parliamentary proceedings, and the rules of evidence acted upon in courts below, he was influenced by a conviction that the nearer and closer their lordships kept to
877The Lord Chancellor
—To the best of your recollection, how long did you remain there? Twenty or twenty-five days; I do not precisely recollect.Mr. Solicitor General.
 objected to the question.Mr. Brougham
—Do you remember where the sleeping-place was; whether above or below the deck?Mr. Solicitor General.
878—Was mademoiselle Brunette on board during the voyage? Yes.878Mr. Solicitor General.
879 said, it would be quite impossible for their lordships to understand the nature of the evidence given, with accuracy, unless they
879The Marquis of Buckingham
—The better way would be, for the counsel on each side to agree upon one plan for the information of your lordships. And if they do concur in delivering in such a plan, let it have no denomination of rooms; but let the apartments be marked 1, 2, 3, or 4. The plan should be produced to-morrow morning.The Lord Chancellor.
 stated, that the counsel in support of the bill were in possession of some plans, but that they were subject to the objection referred to by their lordships; but that copies should be prepared according to the intimation now made by their lordships.The Solicitor General
880"non mi ricordo;" said, that he felt great difficulty indeed in acceding to the production of a plan in this stage of the proceeding. When their lordships recollected that these plans must necessarily embrace descriptions of ships, palaces, houses, inns, and other places, in so many countries of Europe, they must at once be struck with the difficulty of compliance. The plans, even with the numerical arrangement, might lead to serious injustice. He must, indeed, be an uncommon framer of a plan, who could so arrange it as that it would not at once furnish the witnesses with the relative position of all the rooms they had to describe, and at once enable them to reconcile their evidence to the actual description. He begged to apprize their lordships that he meant to regulate his evidence principally, or at least a great deal upon the description of the houses given by the witnesses on the other side. Now, how could he do this with effect, if he were obliged, at the outset, to produce a full plan? The publication of the evidence, morning after morning, was not calculated to promote the justice of the case; but from the circumstance of so many of the witnesses being foreigners, the language of that publication was not understood by them, and consequently full information of what was passing was not received in such a quarter. But any man, whether he understood English or not, if he had eyes, must understand a plan. While the publication went on, and the language was not understood, the witnesses were nothing the wiser, but a plan at once put them in possession of all. There was an end at once, then to880"non mi ricordo;"Mr. Brougham
 stated, that he had not cross-examined as to the conduct of the witness while in the service of her royal highness, but that he was ready to admit he was considered as a good servant, particularly a good travelling servant, during the whole time he was in her royal highness's service, and therefore submitted that the reading of this paper was inapplicable and incorrect.Mr. Brougham
 submitted, that the course of the cross-examination had been to impute misconduct to the witness; that certain questions had intimated that he was to he considered as a member of a gang which attacked the house of her royal highness; that he afterwards applied to her royal highness to be taken into her service again, but that his services were refused.The Solicitor General
 was heard in reply, and further stated, that it was not brought home to the knowledge of her royal highness, being written by Schiavini, who was not proved to be connected with her royal highness.Mr. Brougham
 stated, that there were two questions:—First, whether this was authenticated to be the act of the illustrious personage implicated in the inquiry:—Secondly, whether, if so authenticated, it could be received in evidence; that upon the latter question he did not understand there was any doubt in the minds of the learned judges, and there was none in his own; but that he did entertain a doubt whether it must not be proved that the person who put that seal had some authority to do so, before it could be read,The Lord Chancellor
—Do you remember Schiavini? I do.Mr. Solicitor General.
 objected to the translation, as implying that it was a certificate of good character, whereas the contents were not at present before their lordships.Mr. Brougham
 stated, that if it was written by any person shown to have been authorised by her royal highness then it would be permitted to be read.The Lord Chancellor
di Spineto.—Can you say whether Schiavini had the general management and superintendance of the servants of the household? I do not know who commanded, for Pergami commanded, Schiavini commanded, both commanded; it was impossible for me to know which of the two commanded, who was the superior commander; Pergami came and commanded, Schiavini came and commanded; all commanded.di Spineto.Mr. Solicitor General.
—Who, at the time when you left the service, had the immediate superinlendance of the servants? This I do not remember.Mr. Solicitor General.
major domo objected to this question as irrelevant; for the proof of the application to Schiavini, or even of this paper having been written by that person as major domoMr. Brougham
 intimated, that applications to Schiavini, unless the evidence should be carried farther, would be useless; that the counsel who offered it must at all events prove that Schiavini was in the habit of giving similar testimonials to other servants.The Lord Chancellor
 suggested the propriety of their lordships having before them plans of the places alluded to in the evidence. It would facilitate the investigation very much if the different parties would agree on a plan; or, if that could not be done, each might give in a plan.The Earl of Lauderdale
871 said, that, however desirable it would be for their lordships to have on the table, every morning, printed copies of the proceedings of the preceding day, it would be necessary, before their lordships came to any resolution on the subject, to consider what steps mast be taken for accomplishing such a purpose. Unless they departed from their rule, that whatever was printed for the use of the House must be held to be correct on the responsibility of the clerk, he did not see how the printing could take place. With respect to the publications to which the noble lord had referred, it was easy to understand how persons who might obtain admission there, could, by retiring every half-hour in succession, be enabled to give an account of the proceedings. After all the experience lie had had in matters
871The Lord Chancellor
—How was her royal highness dressed when she passed through the cabinet to Pergami's room at Naples? I do not remember.Lord Ellenborough.
883—You state that Pergami was in the habit of dining with her royal highness, having commenced at Genoa, and con-
883Lord Darnley.
 —You have stated, that when on board the polacre you saw Pergami hand down the princess to the place prepared for the bath? I did.Marquis of Buckingham.
884—You have mentioned a tent having been erected upon the deck of the polacre; was that a double tent? I do not remember whether there was one or two, but I know well there was this tent where her royal highness was.884Earl of Carnarvon.
—At what time of the day was this bath taken on board the polacre, morning or evening? About noon; somewhat before dinner.Marquis of Buckingham.
—You have stated, that at the Villa Villani you remember the princess to have given a blue silk gown to Pergami? Yes, a blue silk gown.Lord Falmouth.
—You have said, that you saw the princess and Pergami in the cabinet on board the polacre, but that you did not see the princess when you brought in the water; when was it you saw the princess in the cabinet? When the bath was ready he went up stairs, took her royal highness, brought her down into the room, and shut the door.Earl of Oxford.
—You have stated (vide p. 26 of the printed Minutes), being asked where the bath was prepared, that it was prepared in the cabinet of her royal highness; you were asked who assisted at the bath, and you said, "the first time I carried the water into the bath, and then Bartolomeo Pergami came down and put his hand into the bath to see the temperature of the water, then he went up stairs and handed her royal highness down, after which the door was shut, and Bartolomeo Pergami and her royal highness remained alone in the cabin," was there any person in the room in which the bath was when Pergami went up stairs to bring the princess down? There was nobody, I saw nobody.Lord Chancellor.
—Was there any other door by which persons could go into the room where the bath was placed? I had not seen any other door.Earl Grosvenor.
—If there was any other door into the room where the bath was prepared, must you have seen it? If there had been another door I must have seen it; but I have seen no other door.Lord Chancellor.
886—Was Pergami, on retiring from the bath-room, dressed in the same
886Marquis of Huntly.
—In page 26 of the printed evidence, there is this question' "Do you re-member at any time when the princess and Pergami were below in the room for the purpose of taking a bath, being called to supply any additional water," to which you answer, "I do remember, two pails, one of hot and the other of cold water;" upon receiving those orders, did you go any where to gel that water, in order to have it ready at the time that Pergami might call for it? No, I went no where, because there was a sailor who gave me the water at the door of the dining-room.Lord Anson.
—You stated, that a tent was placed on the deck of the polacre; what was the nature of that tent; was it that commonly called tent, or merely an awning? It was a tent which was spread on the deck by the means of a rope, and then in the evening it was closed as a pavilion, as a closed tent, it was closed all round; in the evening this tent was let down and was closed all round; and they said, "Stop it well, stop it all round, see that there be no hole, no opening."Lord Darnley.
—By whom were yon recommended to the service of her royal highness? By Bartolomeo Pergami; that I remember.Earl Grosvenor.
—You have stated, that when you were at Home you asked for your discharge, but did not obtain it; and that afterwards at Pesaro you asked for your discharge, and did obtain it. What was your motive for wishing to be discharged from her royal highness's service? Because her royal highness was surrounded by bad people.Marquis of Lansdown.
—How was her royal highness dressed when she went into the bath-room with Pergami? As far as this goes I do not remember.Earl of Carnarvon.
—You have stated, in answer to a question put to you just now, that you asked to quit, and actually did quit her royal highness's service at Pesaro, because you conceived a bad opinion of the persons about her royal highness; if that was your motive, what was your motive for making the application afterwards, which you have stated you did make, to be restored to her royal highness's service. Had you then altered your opinion of the persons by whom her royal highness was surrounded? I applied to Schiavini, in a kind of conversation, whether it might be possible to enter again into the service of her royal highness thus, in a playful way.Marquis of Lansdown.
—You have stated, in page 26, in answer to this question, "Do you know, whether, at the time you took the water in this way the princess was actually in the bath or not?" "I cannot know." You have just now said, that when you took in the two pails of water that Pergami received into the bathroom, if there had been anybody there besides Pergami you must have seen them; how is it that you reconcile this apparent inconsistency, that, when you could not see whether the princess was in the bath or not, you could sec whether there was any other person in the room besides Fergami?Lord Falmouth.
889—You have said that in the journey from St. Jean d'Acre to Jerusalem you and Carlo or Carlino sometimes slept between the outer and the inner tent. Can you recollect how often you so slept? I remember twice.889Lord De Dunstanville.
—Was this conversation you had with Camera at Milan, before you went to Vienna, or subsequent to your return? Before I went to Vienna.Earl of Lauderdale.
 —What religion are you of? A Roman Catholic.Mr. Denman.
Interpreter.—After you had been at Tunis did you sail from thence to any other place? We sailed for Malta.Interpreter.Mr. Attorney General.
892891—Was the right hand side of the dining cabin nearer or farther from the princess's room than the left hand
892891Mr. Attorney General.
Interpreter.—Do you know where Pergami reposed during the time these tents were erected? I positively cannot know where they slept, because I left them and went to dinner.Interpreter.Mr. Attorney General.
 again interposed. Their lordships, he said, knew that, in a court of justice, if, instead of taking the statement from an interpreter, they examined the witness himself, and he answered that he did not know some particular point, but that he guessed or imagined some circumstance relative to which a question might be asked, the counsel appearing in such a case would not do his duty to his client if he did not instantaneously interpose, and prevent the witness from proceeding. In any court whatever, he conceived the same course should be followed, and that the counsel, when a circumstance of that nature occurred, was bound to bid the witness shut his mouth. Here, when a word was interpreted "I imagine" it was absolutely necessary for him to interpose to prevent the whole of the answer being received.Mr. Dentnan
 stated, the interpreter could not be stopped in giving his answer, until it appeared from so much of his interpretation as he had made, that he was then about to state imagination, and that it now appearing what the witness was about to state, was the witness's imagination and not his knowledge, that he could not give that in evidence.The Lord Chancellor
894—Did you ever see Pergami reposing under any other tent? No.894Mr. Attorney General.
896895—Do you know by whose directions the tent has been closed on those occasions? Sometimes the count Schiavini, or Camera, but always one of the suite of her royal highness.896895Mr. Attorney General.
899898—Did you pay your own travelling expenses? I have paid nothing, because I came accompanied by a courier. I have been obliged to come, because the minister applied to the consul, and the consul told me, that if I would not go, I should be made to go, by means of the government; and as the business was to say the truth, I was not willing to come to such extremities.899898Mr. Denman.
 stated, that not being aware of the attendance of this witness, he trusted their lordships would not feel him precluded from putting further questions to him as well as to the former witness at a future time, in case of receiving information which might render it material to do so.Mr. Brougham
904—DidTheodoreMajoochi sleep habitually in the hold, or between decks? To assert that would be telling an untruth, which I will not tell.904Lord Ellenborough.
—Do you know where the female attendants slept in the voyage from Jaffa? The women had the small cabin which I have marked down, the other was assigned to the countess Oldi, but I never went below, and saw whether they actually slept there.Lord Chancellor.
—Did you ever see the lantern, or light, put out from under the tent, after the princess had retired from the tent, to any person to take it away? The light, yes; sometimes this light was given from under the tent, and sometimes it was carried down below, by the communication below.Lord Belhaven.
906 expressed his unwillingness to interpose by way of objection to a question from their lordships, but submitted, that the question was not in the form in which questions were usually put by counsel.906Mr. Denman
—Do you know whether during the same voyage, the princess took her clothes off during the night, or whether she did not? We must distinguish betwixt knowing and seeing; what I know and what I have seen; I have seen sometimes in the morning the princess open a little of the tent, and I saw her having a while gown on, a dressing gown, or some gown or other, and she opened the tent just to take a morsel of air in the morning before the sun rose. Mr. Cohen was asked whether that was the whole of the answer, and he stated that it was.Earl of Darnley.
—Have you ever seen Pergami look out of the tent about the same time? No; because towards the sea where the princess opened, the princess opened just as little as to put out her upper parts, her neck or shoulders.Lord Ellenborough.
—From your knowledge of the situation of the dining-room relative to the tent, could a person in that dining-room hear what passed in the tent when the tent was shut up? Yes, a person might hear well, provided they were words pronounced with their natural force.Earl of Lauderdale.
907 said, that before the House separated, he wished to state, that he had not failed to apply to the highest sources of information, on the point, how far prosecutions might be supported against witnesses examined in the course of this proceeding. He under stood, most unquestionably, that such
907The Lord Chancellor
902—At the time at which you state that you were desired by the captain to go away on some pretence or another, where were you sent away, to another part of the deck, or below? According to what he commanded me to do.902Marquis of Lansdown.
—Had your ship much motion at that time? During summer there is only light air, and then it is followed by calms; and there is hardly any tide to make any motion; and when they were sitting there, it was calm; the ship did not move.Earl of Rosebery.
901—Where is your ship now? I have left her at Messina.901Earl Grey.
—Do you know that the princess was in the bath before Pergami left the bathroom to call mademoiselle Demont? This I cannot know, whether she was in the bath, because I did not see into the bath-room.Earl Grey.
—Did you remain with the warm water at the door of the bath-room, when Pergami went to call the maid to dress the princess? I remained there till he told me to go away.Earl Grey.
885—Could you, in the position in which you stood at the door of the bath-room, see every body that was in that room? When it was open I could, but when it was shut I could not.885Earl Grey.
Interpreter.—Did you see her royal highness distinctly on that occasion? Yes.Interpreter.Earl Grey.
—Did you pretend to be asleep? Yes, I feigned to be asleep.Earl Grey.
—Did you remain in the outer room during the whole time that the princess and Pergami were in the inner room? At the door with the two pails of water.Lord Auckland.
—Did you see the princess and Pergami quit the bath-room? No, but I have seen Pergami come out of the room to go on deck; to call the maid to come down and dress her royal highness, and I have heard, with my own ears, when he said, "mademoiselle Demont, come down to dress her royal highness."Lord Auckland.
—You state, that in the voyage from the East to Terracina, there were tents put on the deck of the vessel: what sort of weather had you? I do not remember.Lord Auckland.
—Can you recollect in what part of the ship during this voyage, Teodore Majoochi slept? Yes.Lord Auckland.
—To a question put, "Do you know whether, at the time you took the water, the princess was actually in the bath, or not?" you have stated, "That you cannot know." To another question, "Whether the female attendants were upon the deck?" you have answered, "That you did not see them." Can you swear that none of her female attendants were at that moment in the bath-room with the princess? Yes, I can swear to having seen nobody go into the bath-room of her royal highness.Lord Duncan.
 in consequence of the objections to his motion, withdrew it. And the House being called over, the counsel were called in.The Earl of Darlington,
870 rose, to call their lordships attention to a subject connected with the important business before them. In order to assist them in accomplishing the object they all had in view, which was the doing of ample justice, it was necessary they should have the means of forming a correct judgment on the evidence. It was therefore desirable that their lordships should have before them printed copies of the evidence taken from day to day. However difficult it might be to obtain this evidence, he thought it indispensable; for it might be necessary for their lordships to ask questions on many points, and he believed few possessed memories capable of retaining the great mass of evidence detailed before them for a length of time. For his part, he felt himself totally unable to keep the evidence in his mind, so as to avail himself, after a period, of it by recollection. The evidence given by the witness in support of the bill, on the first day, had made, he confessed, a very strong impression on his mind; but the cross-examina-
870The Earl of Darlington
v.908 (one of her majesty's counsel) said:—My lords; before this witness is examined, I certainly do not wish to revive discussion upon any subject upon which your lordships may be supposed to have decided, but I wish to understand distinctly from your lordships, whether or not a question is decided which I am desirous to submit—a point which I believe has not been under your lordships consideration, still less in any degree argued before your lordships.v.908Mr. Williams
909—I do not apprehend there can be any doubt in point of law with respect to what you now state. You may take it as conceded, that a man cannot be sworn in any particular form, if he does not believe in the being of a God or a future state—if he does not believe in the being of a God or a future
909The Lord Chancellor.
voir dire.most"mostvoir dire,—I distinctly admit, that any sort of belief of that description cannot be inquired into—I allow that is no question to be made—it is decided that the question cannot be put. Mr. Justice Buller refused to permit a person to be asked whether he believed in the Gospels, when he stated that he believed in the being of a God, and that he conceived he was responsible to that God. What I was about to submit to your lordships is this, that we have a right to inquire from this particular witness, supposing him to be a Roman Catholic, whether or not, according to the form of swearing in his own particular country, and according to the form of law which there obtains, there are not certain ceremonies observed which he deems to be material towards the obligation of an oath, and the omission of which ceremonies in his particular case, would be as fatal as swearing a Gentoo on the Gospels, or swearing a Mahometan upon the Gospels, whereas the evidence of each of those witnesses would be admissible only upon the ground that their faith is pledged by the administration of the particular form of oath which each of them deems most solemn and most binding, and upon this I found the inquiry we were about to institute of this witness, and what I am submitting to your lordships upon that subject is, that it is competent for us to inquire upon this preliminary question, I mean upon the voir dire.most"mostvoir dire,Mr. Williams.
"mostvoir dire,911v.v.most,"v.910—Perhapsyour lordships
"mostvoir dire,911v.v.most,"v.910Mr. Brougham.
—The Counsel will be so good as to inform the House, what is the question they wish to put to the witness.Lord Chancellor.
—I am desirous to learn from him, first, whether he has ever been examined as a witness in his own country?Mr. Williams.,
—That does not signify.Lord Chancellor.
—Als, whether he has seen a witness examined, and then whether there are certain ceremonies observed at the time of administering the oath?Mr. Williams.
—If it is not inconvenient to you, confine yourself at present to the proposal of one question.Lord Chancellor.
—It shortly comes to this, whether there are not certain ceremonies observed in the country to which he belongs, which he deems to be binding upon his conscience.Mr. Williams.
—My lords; I state it as the opinion I have received from the Judges, and the opinion I entertain myself, that the witness may be asked whether he considers the oath he has now taken to be an oath binding upon his conscience, and that the question now proposed to be put to the witness ought not to be put.Lord Chancellor.
—We do not put that question: we do not deny that it may to a certain degree be binding.Mr. Brougham.
—I only wish it to be understood what is the point we have raised. Our objection is not that he is not bound by it, but that if there be another way which would bind him more, that should be preferred.Mr. Brougham.
—Was Pergami's bed ever prepared [for him in the dining-cabin from the time the ship left Jaffa, till the time she arrived at Capo d' Anza? Never; once I remember that it was bad weather, and they were obliged to come down below, and they went into the cabins.Lord Ellenborough.
—You have stated, that in blowing weather the light was put down the ladder; do you know who took the light upon that occasion? Theodore or Carlino; Theodore who has also been here, or Carlino.Earl of Rosebery.
—I understand your lordships wish this question to be proposed to the Judges.—"If a witness produced in the Courts below, without objecting to it, takes the oath according to the usual form, can he be asked whether he considers the oath he has taken as binding upon his conscience; and can he be also asked, whether there are other modes of swearing more binding on his conscience than the oath he has taken?" I remember a case before Mr. Justice Gould—a person of some peculiar way of thinking in Scotland was called as a witness, I apprehend either at Newcastle or Northumberland; the man objected to be sworn in the usual manner, and gave a very singular reason. Mr. Justice Gould asked him what was the reason he objected to take an oath; he said he had taken an oath that he would take no oath—the learned judge was of opinion that as he had once taken an oath he must take an oath again; but on the man afterwards saying that the manner in which he pledged his conscience was by holding up his hand, he was pledged to his evidence in that manner.Lord Chancellor.
—My lords, I do not wish to give any opinion upon the point of law, particularly as it is about to be referred to the learned Judges. I would only observe, that the cases which have been referred to appear to have been all cases where the witness had made the objection himself. It does not appear, from any thing which has been stated, to have been usual for the court to interpose and put questions to the witness.The Earl of Liverpool.
914 observed, that their lordships had, a day or two before, made an order to exclude any persons from being present at the proceedings, who might afterwards be required to give evidence. He thought it highly desirable that some similar rule should be adopted, to prevent communication out of doors between those who had been examined
914The Earl of Darnley
 replied, that it was impossible to prevent persons in the situation of the witnesses from getting together. Such persons naturally associated with one another; all that the House could do in the case was, to direct the parties to take care that the agents on each side should give strong injunctions to the witnesses, in the circumstances described by the noble lord, not to hold any conversation together.The Earl of Liverpool
 thought it advisable, for the purpose of enabling the House to understand the relative situations of the apartments and doors on board the ship, that a correct sketch should be taken, and laid before the House. Such a step would tend very much to shorten the proceedings.The Earl of Winchelsea
915 —My lords, the judges have considered the questions proposed to them by your lordships, and they have taken the liberty to detain your lordships while they sent for books, in order that they might consult the authorities referred to in the course of the argument before your lordships. My lords, the judges are of opinion,
915Lord Chief Justice Abbott.
—How long, to the best of your recollection, did that occupation of the beds continue? Till June; the princess came on board towards the end of March, and it continued till June; then at the departure from Constantinople, the air became warmer, and the princess preferred to sleep on deck under a tent; but after her departure from Jaffa, where seven horses with two asses were brought on board, she always slept on board on the deck under the tent.Mr. Solicitor General.
Interpreter.—Have the goodness to repeat in Italian what the answer was.Interpreter.Mr. Solccitor General.
—My only objection was, that "unito" would mean joined.Mr. Cohen.
919Interpreter.—How long did Pergami continue to sleep in this manner? Until they landed at the Porto d'Anza in the pope's dominions, thirty miles beyond Terracina.919Interpreter.Mr. Solicitor General.
 objected to the question as leading.Mr. Williams
920 submitted this was not a leading question, but expressed his willingness to alter it.920The Solicitor General
921 objected to the question, stating that the witness was not to state his opinions, but the facts, from which their lordships were to form their own opinion.921Mr. Williams
923922—Do you know what that was intended to represent? He wanted to play some apish tricks to make her royal highness laugh, as well as all others who saw him.923922Mr. Solicitor General.
 objected to these questions on the original examination.Mr. Williams
—Where is your vessel at present? My ship at present is on her way from Puglia to Naples; my interest did not allow me to come here, for my ship was loaded on my account, and I had given orders that she should be unloaded at Reggio.Mr. Solicitor General.
 was not aware that this question was irregular.Mr. Williams
—There is no objection to the learned counsel's question.The Lord Chancellor.
 observed, that it was usual for silence to be observed in those courts with which he was familiar—in those courts where the judges presided; their lordships would therefore excuse him if he did not quite understand the interruption.Mr. Williams
 was of opinion, that every indulgence and facility should be extended to the learned gentlemen who were engaged in this investigation. It was on this occasion the duty of the House to act with the utmost impartiality. Every part of the proceedings now pending before their lordships should be marked with the greatest possible attention; and it was of essential importance to the interests of justice that the evidence on both sides should be given with the utmost clearness.The Marquis of Downshire
926 certainly thought, that, when any question struck noble lords to be objectionable, the objection should be openly made, instead of manifesting any expression of feeling. A contrary course made that sort of impression on those who were not accustomed to their lordships' proceedings which created embarrassment. He was sure that no intention existed, on the part of any noble lord, to produce such an effect. But he conceived that their lordships ought to have a proper command over themselves, and that an entire silence should be maintained, except where a just reason for interruption could be shown; and, in that case, the reason should be stated. He made this observation, without alluding to any particular examination or cross-examination, but applied it to the whole of these proceedings.926The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that he agreed in this interpretation.Mr. Cohen
—That the subject was of such a nature, that it cannot be talked about; that is the meaning in which Mr. Cohen and I agree.Marchese di Spineto
928927—Did any body tell you not to speak to Paturzo about what Paturzo said here yesterday? No, I have told Paturzo myself by my own act, without being prompted by any body, not to talk about it.928927Mr. Williams.
931—Having stated that you were disappointed in the profits you expected, from having her royal highness the princess of Wales on board your ship, did you, in consequence of that disappointment, make any application for compensation, either to her royal highness or any person acting for her? To her royal highness I did not make any application, because she dismissed me, and granted me a certificate of good service; and this was on account of Pergami, because they wished that I should have carried them to Venice at the departure from Rhodes; the princess commanded, for the princess always commanded what Pergami commanded, that they wished to go to Venice. In sailing, after leaving the island of Candia, the wind was continually from the North; remaining in that state we were going to have no more water, the water was going to be at an end, for I had forty-four people and nine horses; I told her, that as the water was near at an end, it was necessary that we should land; they did not wish to go to Morea, they did not wish to return to Candia, therefore they were obliged to go to Sicily; arriving in Sicily, they then passed across the Strait of Sicily and went to Naples, and from Naples to Capo d'Anza; Pergmai, on landing, because he had promised me 6,000 dollars, as a present by the means of the consul at Tunis, told me there was no present for me, because I would not take them to Venice; then when I came here last year, I gave a memorial to my ambassador count de Ludolph, and I stated that as I believed myself to have served the British government, because I had had the honour of having the English flag, I expected the present which I had not received; and on account of this memorial which I gave to count de Ludolph the English government have known that I was Vincenzo Gargiulo of Naples.931Marquis of Lansdown.
—In consequence of the memorial presented to your ambassador, have you received any compensation? I have received nothing; nay, my minister and the colonel to whom I have mentioned it, told me that they knew nothing, and that I might go to London, and then might see upon this particular.Earl of Oxford.
932—You have said that at times when the princess and Pergami were together upon the deck you have thought it
932Earl of Donoughmore.
 begged to suggest to their lordships whether this question was not in an objectionable form.Mr. Williams
—Give in that certificate to which you have referred as written by her royal highness.Earl of Lauderdale.
—From whom did you receive that paper? From the princess of Wales at the Villa d'Este, when I went to her from Genoa.Lord Chancellor.
—You have stated that you saw the princess and Pergami under the tent, and that after you saw them in that situation Schiavini received orders to let down the tent; did that happen when the Princess was leaning on the bed on which Pergami was lying, and when you ordered your mate to withdraw? Yes, but this circumstance has happened more than once; it did not happen that once only.Earl of Lauderdale.
933 said, he had an humble application to make to their lordships, in
933Mr. Brougham
 wished in such a case that the House should be chiefly governed by the opinion of the learned lord on the woolsack, and that of the learned gentlemen at the bar; but he would suggest, whether, if this course was acceded to, which was breaking in upon established rules, counsel ought not, in the first instance, to state not only the particular question, but the object of the examination.The Earl of Liverpool
 stated, that it became a very important question for their lordships consideration, whether the cross-examination was to be permitted to be taken piece-meal.The Lord Chancellor
 admitted that the application was out of the strict and ordinary course of proceeding, but pledged himself, that if it was granted he should not ask that witness any other question until he had opened his case; that he should be content with putting three or four questions to that witness, if permitted, at the present time.Mr. Brougham
935934Teodoro Majoochi stated, that, with that pledge, their lordships would not refuse the application that had been made; that the counsel might suggest his question, and their lordships would propose it.935934Teodoro MajoochiThe Lord Chancellor
 stated, that apprehending it was the intention of Mr. Brougham to obtain answers from the witness with a view to contradicting him, he submitted it was necessary the name of the particular party and the place should be mentioned in the question.The Solicitor-General
936 stated, that he did not admit that this was the rule, but submitted, that as the witness might not have known the name of the person to whom he said it, if the witness swore that he did not say so to any person, he should be at liberty hereafter to
936Mr. Brougham
937Interpreter. stated, that it had been ruled in the Court of King's-bench, that counsel ought in the first instance to name the person referred to, for that a person might sincerely state, that he never had had such conversation; but that if put in mind of having been with a particular individual at a particular time, he might immediately recollect the conversation, and his former answer might be no slur upon that testimony.937Interpreter.The Lord Chancellor
—When you spoke of her royal highness as a Buona Donna, and a prudent woman, did you allude to her royal highness's moral conduct as a woman, or to her behaviour towards you as a mistress? When there was discourse respecting the princess of Wales, I always said she was Buona Donna; for if I had said she was Cattiva Donna, they would have fixed a quarrel upon me.Lord Ellenborough.
940939938Francesco Birollo stated, that in putting the questions which he had proposed to the witness, he had not done so under the slightest suspicion that any person had offered him a place under government, but with another view, which might be perceived.940939938Francesco BirolloMr. Brougham
929—What were you paid by the princess of Wales for the time your ship was
929Earl Grey.
 proposed to refer it to the Judges whether the witness might not be asked, if there was any other mode of swearing which he thought more binding on his conscience?Earl Grey
 proposed to have it put to the witness, whether any other form of oath would be more binding on his conscience.Earl Grey
930—You have stated, that you received 750 dollars for the use of your ship, was that sum meant to cover all the expenses of navigation? I have got a great deal to say upon this particular point.930Lord Auckland.
913 said, that if the mode in which the oath had been administered to the witness was wrong, then all the
913Lord Redesdale
912—My lords; I beg to express my concurrence in the opinion which has been delivered by the noble and learned lord. I am of opinion that it is not competent to the learned counsel to show whether there are other forms used in the country to which the witness
912Lord Erskine.
—At what hour did her royal highness come to see you when you were confined, in consequence of that hurt? The hour I do not know, I know she came to me, and I was half asleep, and Pergami told me, "Mind, it is the princess who has come to see you."Lord Ellenborough.
—Was it by night or by day that the princess came into your chamber? By day.Earl of Belmore.
949Samuel George Pechell,—Did the princess come into your room alone, or was Pergami with her when she came? They came together.949Samuel George Pechell,Earl of Carnarvon.
—Is it in your own handwriting? It is; it is from the log of the ship.Mr. Brougham.
950—Did you in Sicily receive her royal highness on board your ship? At Messina.950Mr. Attorney General.
— It appears that you refused to allow the princess to sit at your table then, because she refused not to admit Pergami; supposing a lad who waited at my table or any other person's table, should have the good fortune to be made a midshipman in his majesty's service, and afterwards become of rank, either as a lieutenant or a captain, would you after wards refuse to sit down with that person?Earl of Oxford.
953—You say that you appointed a cabin for Madame Oldi and the female servants; was that immediately adjoining the cabin intended for her royal highness? It was.953Mr. Attorney General.
—Was the sleeping place you reserved for yourself in the dining-room closed, or had it merely your cot? It was closed at night and opened in the day.Lord Ellenborough.
—Did you observe any improper conduct take place on hoard your ship I between Pergami and the princess of Wales? No.Lord Hood.
941 wished to draw their lordships' attention to certain observations which had appeared in a paper of yesterday (The Times), in which an imputation was cast on the character of a noble lord now absent, his wish being to state what perhaps that noble lord himself would already have stated had he had the opportunity of being present; and which would show that the imputation was unfounded, and at the same time that there was no inconsistency in the evidence given by the witness Majoochi. Their lordships would recollect that Majoochi stated that he went first from Milan to Vienna in 1817, in the service of the marquis Odescalchi; that he remained some time at Vienna, and went back to Milan; and that he was in the service of the marquis six or seven months before he entered into the service of the British embassy. If the dates were compared, it would be found that this brought him down to the month of March, 1818. Now he (lord E.) knew that lord Stewart landed in England in July, 1817, and he knew that he had business of his own which detained him in, England and Ireland till February, 1818. Up to that period he had seen
941Lord Ellenborough
 said:—Will your lordships permit me to state, that a very unfounded impression has gone abroad through the public prints respecting the re-examination of Theodore Majoochi, yesterday? It has been most incorrectly imputed to me, that I had re-examined that witness on the existence of a letter which I never saw, the fact being that I applied to your lordships for that permission, on depositions of most respectable persons.Mr. Brougham
942 said, that his learned friend had with reason complained of the imputations thrown upon him. He knew not whether their lordships had read the daily papers; if they had, they would see with what justice he (the Attorney-general) had to complain of the imputa-
942The Attorney General
l. did not know what had been stated in the papers, but he knew there were other publications of a very improper nature. In one of them, entitled "a Peep at the Peers," it was among other things of which he had reason to complain, stated, that he and his family received 36,000l.The Earl of Lauderdale
943Francesco Birollol. adverted to the necessity of preventing a repetition of certain irregularities which had occurred during the last two days. As to the complaints against the conduct of the daily journals, it was difficult to say what course ought to be pursued. It was better to leave the subject for future consideration, when it might be specifically considered. As to the publication entitled "a Peep at the Peers" alluded to by his noble friend, he must say, that though he wished his noble friend had the 36,000943Francesco Birollol.The Lord Chancellor
 objected to the question as leading, that it was too general, and ought to be made more pointed, that it was a summing up of the whole.Dr. Lushingtan
 was heard in support of the question.Mr. Parke
 stated that there was not the least doubt that the question was proper.The Lord Chancellor
—When you said in a former answer Pergami's bed appeared to be made, did you mean that it appeared as if it had not been slept in? I did.Earl of Liverpool.
—Do you remember to have seen Mahomet perform in the same motions which you have stated that yon have seen him perform twice in the presence of her royal highness, before other members of the family when her royal highness was not present? Yes; he played the same tricks before us many times.Marquis of Lansdown.
—How did you know it to be the princess's room out of which you saw Pergami come? Because when I was ordered to carry the breakfast, I went with the people to carry it, and I saw her royal highness come out from the same room all combed and dressed.Duke of Hamilton.
—When Pergami came out of the princess's room and scolded you, can you state what Pergami said? "You scoundrel, what are you doing here? Who has opened the door?" I said I had found it open, and he said, "Go away."Earl of Lauderdale.
—You have stated that Pergami looked over your accounts; had you ever any quarrel about those accounts with Pergami? Yes, I have had some disputes.Lord Falmouth.
—At what time in the morning were the beds usually made for the family at Turin? I did not go to make the beds.Earl Grosvenor.
—When you stated that, what did you mean? Because I have given a memorial to get this inn, by means of some protection; and I do not know whether I shall succeed, or whether some other innkeeper will have it.Lord Chancellor.
—You have declared, that in coming here to give evidence upon this cause you suffer loss; why do you say you did not wish for any money? Because I had money with me; because I had by me nearly 100 sequins, which I can show.Earl of Roseberry.
—When you passed from your own room into the dining-room, by the door you call secret, did you push that door from you, or draw it towards you? When I open it I open it towards the dining-room; when I shut it, I draw it towards my room.Lord Ellenborough,
969—Did the secret door reach
969Earl of Limerick.
—When you came into the room, was the princess sitting upon the bed? Yes.Mr. Attorney General.
Interpreter.Interpreter.Interpreter.By a Lord to the Interpreter.Interpreter.—What did the princess do upon your coming into the room? The princess was frightened.Interpreter.Interpreter.Interpreter.By a Lord to the Interpreter.Interpreter.Mr. Attorney General.
—Did the princess get up, or jump up in your presence? Yes, when I had entered the princess had got up, and I had retired.Mr. Attorney General.
972 stated, that if the examination was now to be broken off, he trusted that their lordships would not suffer any other witness to be called until that examination was resumed.972The Attorney General
—Did the screen which constituted your sleeping place include the door at which the sentry is placed? It included the door in part, but not altogether.Marquis of Buckingham.
—Was the door a regular door on hinges? Yes.Lord Colville.
956—Was there a light gener-
956Earl of Liverpool.
—Did any person sleep in the dining-room during the time her royal highness was on board the Leviathan? Yes.Lord Colville
957—What answer did her majesty give you when you stated the message with which captain Pechell charged you? What I have before mentioned; alter making the remark about his being as good
957Earl of Lauderdale.
958 was heard in support of the question, and submitted, that it might be material to show that there was a subject of disagreement between her royal highness and captain Pechell, which might be a motive for her conduct.958Mr. Denman
Pietro Cucki having had an opportunity of conferring with his learned colleagues, declined giving their lordships further trouble upon this point.Pietro CuckiMr. Denman
—What do you mean by agent? I am acting instead of the owner.Earl of Liverpool,
959—Do you know an inn at Trieste called the Black Eagle? I do.959Mr. Solicitor General.
963962Williams.961960—Where did you yourself remain in the morning, before you went into the dining-room? In my own room, which was at the end of the dining-room.963962Williams.961960Mr. Solicitor General.
 objected to the form of the question.The Solicitor General
—Then it is not true that the door opened into the dining-room?Mr. Williams.
 objected to this, as an inference from the evidence, and not in its form a question.The Solicitor General
 stated, that he was desirous of showing that that statement of the witness to-day, as to the situation of the rooms, varied from the deposition he had formerly made; the form of the question put by the Solicitor General having assumed the position of the rooms to be different from that which the witness had stated.Mr. Williams
 stated, in answer, that the form of the question put by him was occasioned by a mistake in his reading the paper before him.The Solicitor General
Mr. Solicitor General.965—Then is it to be taken as a fact, that the door of Pergami did not open into the dining-room, but into the bed-room of his sister, the countess of Oldi? Yes.Mr. Solicitor General.965Mr. Williams.
 stated, that he had not asked any question as to the witness having received any money, and submitted that the Tact being stated by the witness not in direct answer to the question, did not entitle the Solicitor General to re-examine upon it.Mr. Williams
966 stated that he had abandoned all idea of his intending to refer to the present proceeding, and understood the witness to refer to proceedings in respect of the inn.966Mr. Williams
—Do you know whether during the princess's residence at the inn in question the countess Oldi's bed appeared to have been slept in every night? Nobody can sleep in there, because the bed was too small.Marquis of Buckingham.
—You have stated that there were two beds in the princess's room at Trieste, were there two beds in that room before the princess arrived? There were, but they were not so near one another as they were placed after the arrival of the princess.A Peer.
—You have stated that the door was all covered with canvas, and yet you have stated that there was a key-hole, through which you could look; explain how that key-hole was placed, whether the canvas was cut as well as the door, so as to leave an opening for the key.Earl of Liverpool.
 submitted to their lordships, whether this question was in a correct form.Mr. Williams
967—You have said that the canvas covered the whole door, did the canvas
967Earl of Liverpool.
—Was there any door under the canvas? Yes.Lord Kingston.
—Is it usual in Italy to make up the bed in a different form for the day and for the night? There may be a manner, but I know in my house the bed is made in the morning; but I never made a bedEarl of Morton.
955—After the change of rooms you have spoken of, in going to that occupied by Pergami, was it absolutely necessary to pass through one of her royal highness's apartments? No.955Earl of Rosebery.
968—State whether you made use of the secret door which you have been describing whenever you wished to pass and repass from your room in the course of the day, or was it only on some particular occasion? When I was obliged to serve something in stated hours, I always looked through the key-hole, in order that I might be ready to serve.968Marquis of Lansdown.
—Was the rest of the room under the same sort of canvas as the door? No; only my door that led into the dining-room.Earl Grosvenor.
—In what manner was the painted canvas placed on the door, did it hang loose over the door or was it fixed to it? It was fixed with nails.Earl Grey.
—Did you not frequently receive, during the night, reports from officers who were on duty in the ship? I did.Earl Grey.
—Were you in the service of general Pino when Theodore Majoochi left it? No.Earl Grey.
948—You have stated that you knew the princess's bed-chamber from having seen her royal highness leave it dressed, and with her hair dressed, does that remark apply to the morning that her royal highness went to court, or to any other day? On that same day she went to court.948Lord Auckland.
—Were not those officers who came to you at night for orders, obliged to pass through the dining-room before they could get to your cabin? They must come into the dining-room, but not pass through it, because the moment they were over the threshold of the door, they were in my cabin.Lord Duncan.
—What do you suppose to have been the thickness of the door? Not so much as an inch; not the thickness of my thumb.Earl of Darlington.
—Do you recollect the king or queen coming to her royal highness the princess to the inn at Turin? I do.Earl of Darlington.
"nunc pro tunc," said, he would pursue that point no further; but he had other and still stronger reasons to show that the House was in error. He maintained that he was strictly in order, and he should be happy to hear his noble friend convince him that he was not in order. The learned lord on the woolsack had said, that the House had got intoerror, yet nobody had called the learned lord to order. It was admitted that their lordships had fallen into irregularities, in which they did not mean to persevere for the future. The facility of this House might possibly have occasioned great irregularities and great injustice out of doors. He agreed entirely in what had fallen from the noble viscount (Sidmouth). In ordinary cases the cross-examination followed the examination in chief; and why should it not in this? It was alleged, that a list of witnesses had not been granted, but the noble viscount had shown that all the information which would have been given in such a list was supplied by the examination in chief The maxim of "nunc pro tunc,"The Earl of Donoughmore
 professed himself not to understand the decision of their lordships.Mr. Brougham
 begged to propose a question upon the footing of the permission extending to the names and residences of the witnesses, namely—What is your place of residence?Mr. Brougham
—Where do you now live? At Carlsruhe.Mr. Brougham.
984—Allow me, my lords, to make a single observation on the course now about to be adopted. I understood your lordships to have distinctly stated, at the outset of the proceeding, in case my learned friends, who are counsel for her majesty, shall offer to your lordships sufficient grounds for having this witness, or any other in the same circumstances, only cross-examined in part, that they should be at liberty so to do, but not to exceed some reasonable
984The Attorney General.
—Because the House objects to the question.The Lord Chancellor.
—Does the attorney general object to the question?Earl of Liverpool.
985—I; do object to it, my lord. This is perhaps the most important, question that has yet occurred. Unless my learned friends now cross-examine the witness, how are we to proceed? Am I to lay the whole of the evidence in support of the bill before your lordships, and that before there is any cross-examination on the other side? Why, my lords, such a proceeding was never heard of in any other court of justice. Is the cross-examination to proceed in this manner, by piecemeal? If it be, I shall be shut out from offering any explanation as to circumstances disclosed by the witness that may be even necessary; and it will be impossible for your lordships to place those who are to support the bill in the situation in which they ought to be placed. Why, my lords, until the whole of the cross-examination and the re-examination be closed, there can be no summing up by counsel. They now cross-examine in part—again they cross-examine in another part, and when or where is this to end? Let them either now proceed in the cross-examination of the witness, or defer it till the whole of the evidence in chief be closed; but they should not have the election they are requiring. They are placed in no difficulties on the other side, but what your lordships have agreed to relieve them from. Your lordships rules are founded in justice, but while
985The Attorney General.
—I shall confine myself to the simple question before your lordships, and shall not presume to dispute the rule you have laid down. The only question I have now to contend for is, shall or shall not my question be put and answered? The question before your lordships, and the only question which must be first disposed of according to the practice of all other courts is, whether I am at liberty to ask this witness where she now lives? The Attorney General objects to this, and his ground of objection is, that I ought now to put not only this, but all the other questions which I have to put. His argument is not directed against this question, but that I do not put all the questions in my power to ask. But I will not argue this before your lordships. I am not called upon to do so. Your lordships have put me to my election, and I have made it, and within the narrow limits chalked out to me I shall proceed to the cross-examination of the witnesses. I do not argue against the rule as laid down by your lordships, but I am quite sure your lordships could not think of laying down any rule that would bind me one way now, and another way in a few minutes. You cannot all of a sudden change your rules: I cannot for a moment imagine you would do any thing so monstrous. My question now is, where does this witness now live in England? In a case of high treason we could have all this in the list of witnesses; we could have had "Meidge Barbara Kress, spinster, or married woman, formerly of Carlsruhe, now of such a place in such a parish in Middlesex"—if your lordships object to that, I waive the question.Mr. Brougham.
986 felt great difficulty on this point, not on account of the importance of the present question, but as to the consequences likely to result from permitting such a mode of procedure. With reference to a former opinion, if he
986The Lord Chancellor
973Through the interpretation of Mr. Gollermann.—Was it a cloak of a similar description to that you had seen upon the bed, that you saw the princess wearing? [973Through the interpretation of Mr. Gollermann.Mr. Attorney General.
—The word she uses is a word that cannot be expressed in English, unless by asking her what she means by it; she says, when once I made the bed I saw that the sheets were wüste. Now she says "Wüste," she may mean by "Wüste" in disorder, that is generally understood by this word; it is an adjective. "Wüste," in its proper meaning, is the English word "Waste." "Eine Wüste" means a desert.Mr. Kersten.
—She is rather at a loss to explain it.Mr. Goltermann.
—She says, it had stains.Mr. Kersten.
Through the interpretation of Mr. Goltermann.—She was at first at a loss to express it, but afterwards she said it had stains.Through the interpretation of Mr. Goltermann.Mr. Goltermann.
 stated, that he had but few questions at present to put on cross-examination, but that he should reserve the bulk of his cross-examination to a future time, after inquiry had been made.Mr. Brougham
 stated, that he wished to put some questions, in order to lead to those inquiries.Mr. Brougham
974 stated, that he apprehended it was to follow from being refused a list of the witnesses that, after the witnesses were examined at first, they were
974Mr. Brougham
 begged to call their lordships attention to what had passed since the commencement of this inquiry, in regard to another witness.Mr. Denman
unico contextu, stated, that he was ready to admit cross-examining by piecemeal, in general cases, would not be regular, but begged to submit to their lordships the peculiar nature of their present position; that they had at first afforded to them no knowledge of the present situations or residences of any of the witnesses that were to be called against her majesty; that they had, in the second place, no intimation given to them of either the time with a convenient certainty, or the place with a convenient particularity, at which the alleged acts were said to have taken place, and that this peculiarity of their situation might well be deemed justly to authorise this other peculiarity, that instead of being called upon to cross-examine at once, and as it were, unico contextu,Mr. Brougham
 stated, that with respect to the circumstantial evidence, he should go no further than his lordship had suggested; namely, as to the certainty of time and place, leaving all the circumstances to a future examination; and that he proposed to go into the description of the person, her residence, and circumstances of that nature, leaving further questions on that point to the result of future inquiry; that if any of his questions appeared to go beyond that which their lordships were pleased to permit, he trusted he should not be considered as intending to trench upon their lordships rule.Mr. Brougham
Through the interpretation of' Mr. Kersten.—I have cleaned the room where the master and mistress were, I have cleaned the public room in the inn.Through the interpretation of' Mr. Kersten.Mr. Goltermann.
—Besides the public room of the inn.Mr. Goltermann.
977Through Mr. Kersten.—When I was with him.977Through Mr. Kersten.Mr. Goltermann.
Through Mr. Kersten.—The same quarter of the year.Through Mr. Kersten.Mr. Goltermann.
Through Mr. Kersten.—Of which each makes five florins, she says.Through Mr. Kersten.Mr. Goltermann.
Kersten.978Through Mr.—The witness adds, "then I said I would let it come to that point." Did he give you any thing? [Kersten.978Through Mr.Mr. Goltermann.
979 objected to the line of cross-examination taken by the learned counsel. The reason that had been given to their lordships, to induce them to allow a cross-examination, at present, was, that no previous list of witnesses had been afforded to her majesty, who had not, therefore, any means of knowing the situations which the witnesses had filled, or their places of residence. Their lordships, in consequence, permitted a cross-examination, on the ground that those points should be explained; but when they did so, he supposed they meant that this permission should strictly apply to that species of information to which he had alluded. But the learned counsel had gone beyond that. He was asking questions that went to impeach the credit of the wituess—a course which was so destructive of all justice, that he did not think their lordships intended to tolerate it. If those questions went to assail the credit of the witness (and he would maintain that much of what their lordships had heard had directly that effect), they could not be vindicated, as being asked with a view to get at the place of residence and the situation of the individual, but which must be presumed to have a very different object. If this course were allowed, let their lordships observe the example they would set to those persons who might cross-examine in future. He contended that the veracity or consistency of the witness was not a matter that should be then gone into, because it gave an advantage to the accusing party. It afforded the prosecutor, in summing up, an advantage that he would not otherwise have. He ought not to be allowed to know that which would enable him to shape his summing up differently from what he otherwise would do Was it fair or right that the person accused should now conduct the cross-examination with a view to get out facts to impeach the credit of the witness hereafter, not on account of any information that he had received, but in consequence of facts elicited by a cross-examination, that
979The Earl of Lauderdale
980 thought, most unquestionably, that this cross-examination had gone far beyond the limits to which it ought to have been confined. Although their lordships would not interfere to prevent the learned counsel from obtaining a knowledge of who the witness was, what was her situation in life, where she now lived, where she previously resided, and what occupation she formerly followed; yet, if he proceeded to extract information from her by which her credibility might be impeached hereafter, it would be the most irregular and the most dangerous thing in the world to suffer him to go on As far as the cross-examination went in the first instance to obtain a knowledge of the witness's situation in life, &c, their lordships would not stop it; but that end being effected, they could not allow the cross-examination to proceed farther. In what situation did the House stand? They must stop this antecedent cross-examination—because, if they did not, if they let it proceed, they could not, with any degree of regularity, ask a single question at a future time. If the cross-examination was not concluded, and the re-examination began, then they had a right to ask questions. But the present course would deprive them of that opportunity. How then would they be situated, if the witness were called up to answer the questions of counsel on a future day, their lordships being precluded from doing so? The proceeding was bad for both parties; it was peculiarly unfavourable to the illustrious person accused, because, as had been said by the noble earl, it put it in the power of the counsel for the prosecution to sum up differently from what he otherwise would have done. It went farther—it gave him an opportunity of knowing what witnesses to call, in order to bolster up the case, if he were inclined to do so. He thought that, so far as questions were put for the purpose of learning who and what the witness was, they were allowable; but it appeared to him that the learned counsel had pushed the cross-examination a great deal too far.980The Lord Chancellor
 thought that the necessity of any cross-examination to these points, upon the ground that no list of witnesses had been furnished, was a plea which could not be maintained. If a list of witnesses had been granted, it would have contained only a statement of the name, occupation, and place of residence of each witness. The three first questions, put by the attorney-general, furnished that information, and he saw no necessity, therefore, for any cross-examination upon those points.Lord Sidmouth
 observed, that it was entirely in the option of the learned counsel to enter immediately upon the full cross-examination.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he perfectly understood that he was at liberty to enter into the full cross-examination now; but he had felt it necessary to defer it, for reasons which he had already statad to their lordships. At the same time their lordships would perhaps allow him to state what the question was which he meant to put. He wished to ask, with a view of identifying the person of the witness, and therein strictly confining himself to the limit laid down by their lordships, whether her brother had promised her nothing?Mr. Brougham
 begged to know, whether he might ask the witness, where she was now.Mr. Brougham
 said, he could not help viewing this question in a very different light from the noble viscount who had just spoken. If a list of the witnesses had been granted two months ago, her majesty's counsel would then have had such opportunities of inquiring not only into the residence but the character of the witnesses, as might have rendered a delay of the cross-examination unecessary. He would make no observations upon the doctrine laid down by the noble and learned lord. The course might be contrary to the practice of the courts below; but it appeared to him that, by the rule prescribed, the counsel would be precluded from going into those inquiries which were most essential to their client's defence.The Duke of Hamilton
 repeated, that the plea of necessity for this cross-examination, on the ground that no list of witnesses had been furnished, could not be maintained. The names, occupations, and places of residence were all the information that would have been given in such a list, and this information had been furnished by the answers to the three first questions of the attorney-general.Lord Sidmouth
 said, the whole question was, whether the witnesses were to be sifted twice upon points connected with character. If there were to be two cross-examinations, it was fit that the first should be confined to name, residence, and occupation, and such facts as came out in the direct examination.The Earl of Liverpool
bonâ fidebonâ fide could not agree with what had fallen from the noble viscount (Sidmouth), that the questions put by the attorney-general bad quite the same effect as if a list of witnesses had been allowed. If a list of witnesses had been granted six weeks ago, such inquiries might have been made as to render all examination as to residence and occupation unnecessary. He knew no way of proceeding so as to do justice on both sides, but to impress upon the counsel as respectfully as he was able, that this House was endeavouring to do justice. It was difficult to limit specifically the questions which might be put by counsel, but he trusted they would be such as to come bonâ fidebonâ fideThe Lord Chancellor
 said, he agreed entirely with the learned lord, as to the line of examination which he had just marked out. By pursuing this course her majesty would be placed precisely in the same situation as if the trial had been for high treason, and a list of witnesses had been furnished. He did not complain of her majesty's counsel for endeavouring to get the completest information they could for their client's advantage, but it was the duty of the House to stop them when they proceeded irregularly. He was of opinion that the House ought to have stopped them long ago. He must say their lordships had fallen into great error in the course of these proceedings, and had it not been for the deference which he felt to higher authorities, he should have interposed long ago. He thought it extremely improper, in the examination of that man Majoochi.The Earl of Donoughmore
992—I understand the wish of the noble baron opposite to be, to take this day to consider some measure by which many difficulties may be avoided in our future proceedings. To this I do not object; but I wish before the motion is made, to say a few words in reply to the noble lord who spoke last, as well as to the noble lord (Grenville) under him. I cannot, I confess, consider that the difficulties attending this proceeding are so great, or so insurmountable, as they have been represented to be. I do not see any difficulties which are not likely to occur in cases of impeachment, in bills of pains and penalties, and in all other judicial proceedings which may come under the consideration of your lordships. The motion alluded to, respecting the list of witnesses, would, if granted in this case, have been inconsistent with the ends of justice. In the lower courts the accuser is one party, the defendant is another: the course of proceeding is definite. The instances in which the court may interfere are clearly marked out. But what is the case here? After the accuser and defendant have stated their case, there exists in your lordships an unlimited power to examine not only in chief, as the counsel on one side do, but also to cross-examine every witness. In short, you possess every power of inquiry known to our courts of justice. But this is not all: for it is competent for the members of this House to call back a witness whom they may think material. And even on any point of the case where the counsel on either side have omitted to examine the witnesses upon, it is in the power of this House to call the witness again and examine him or her to any of the facts. He was quite at a loss, in any view of the question, to see how any of the difficulties of this case would have been removed, had a list of the witnesses, which it was intended to call in support of the bill, been previously granted. The point immediately before their lordships, was the first on which any difficulty had occurred. In every former case, the counsel against the bill had been in the practice of cross-examining the witness fully; he had then been re-examined by the counsel for the bill, and, lastly, examined by their lordships. Such appeared to be the regular course of proceeding; but he by no means intended to say, that, according to what had already
992The Earl of Liverpool.
994 was also of opinion, that an opportunity ought to be afforded to their lordships fully to consider this, which was a point of the last importance; and that, when once the rule should have been laid down, that in the whole course of the proceedings it should not be departed from. He thought this the more especially necessary with reference to the right of his majesty's attorney-general to sum up the whole of the case, or only parts, as he might think fit, if their lordships should determine, which they had not yet determined, that the cross-examination might take place at various periods. The fullest consideration and attention was due from their lordships to so important a part of the proceedings connected with the great question before them. The discussion in which their lord-
994The Marquis of Lansdown
 before the question of adjournment was put, requested that their lordships might have an opportunity of hearing the counsel upon that point, one on each side.Lord Ellenborough,
 agreed with the noble lord, provided the counsel were prepared to argue the question.The Earl of Liverpool
995 apprehended it was the duty of the counsel on both sides to be prepared to argue at once any point that might occur.995Lord Ellenborough
996—I trust your lordships will give me leave to say a few words with respect to the great embarrassment in which I feel myself on this subject. I am asked to state, and to support that statement by reasons, if I propose any departure from the usual course, which, in my opinion, and with reference to the present proceeding, may be desirable, with a view to promote the ends of public justice. My lords, I know, that in ordinary cases I am bound, by my professional duty, to be ready at all times to address the Court in which I may have the honour to plead. I know, that in ordinary cases I am never allowed to complain of being taken unawares, and of thereby being prevented from making whatever suggestions may appear to me to he favourable to the cause of my client. I know, that the ends of justice can be attained on any controverted point only by allowing each party to be heard by their counsel, and by then leaving the Court to decide on the merits of the case. But, my lords, although, in ordinary proceedings, in proceedings where there are rules and precedents either known or analogous, I should not be allowed to complain if I were taken unawares by a requisition to state my objections to the usual course pursued, yet I most humbly, and with the greatest confidence in your lordships' justice, suggest that, with reference to the interests of my client (those interests which I am bound especially to attend to), it is very hard (to say no more) to be called on to point out at once what, in my opinion, ought to be the general course of proceeding, in an inquiry which has no precedent, which has no parallel, which is utterly new, and respecting which, therefore, I can have no guide. My lords, I may be allowed to add, that I am only one of six counsel in this case. I am the leader undoubtedly, and on my shoulders must fall the responsibility consequent on such a station;—a responsibility from which I have never for a moment shrunk. But, my lords, it is indeed a fearful responsibility which I am called upon to assume, when I am required to state at once the result of all our six opinions on a point as delicate and diffi-
996Mr. Brougham.
—I am extremely sorry to interrupt the learned counsel, but all the House wish to know is, whether he wishes for time to argue this, or is ready to argue it now. My own opinion is, that it is impossible to refuse the learned counsel the time for that if he wishes it; but I think we should be misspending our time by hearing half the argument to-day and half on Monday.The Earl of Liverpool.
—My lords, I was only running over the difficulties that struck my mind, without the intention of arguing them, but only praying your lordships to observe how manifest and how important all those questions are—all of which I must dispose of before I could be heard to make the suggestion. I only therefore wish to say, that I desire delay for the purpose of consulting my colleagues.Mr. Brougham.
—It is not too much for the counsel to ask for delay, when the House itself has asked for forty-eight hours to consider.Lord Chancellor.
 observed, that after the general approbation with which their lordships had received the observations which had fallen from the learned lord on the woolsack, it remained only to ascertain their lordships' pleasure with respect to the last question put by the counsel at the bar. Cries of "Go on! go on!"Earl Grey
 rose to order. He submitted to their lordships, whether the proceedings ought to be interrupted by such a discussion as the noble lord was now entering into?Earl Grey
989988 was anxious that any rule which their lordships might adopt on this occasion should not become a precedent, and a part of the future law and usage of parliament. He conceived that it should not be considered as a precedent in cases of impeachment or in bills
989988Lord Redesdale
991990—My lords; when I said a few words to your lordships some minutes ago, I anxiously wished to have been silent; I was afraid, and still feel the same painful impression, that in imputing the present difficulties to the rejection of my motion for communicating the times and places which ought to have been charged in the preamble of the bill, together with a list of the witnesses by which any criminal acts were intended to be established, I should seem to be setting up my own opinion against a judgment of the House; but in consequence of the proposed motion of my noble friend under the gallery, I feel that I am called upon to trouble your lordships once again. My noble and learned friend on the cross-bench, has said, that we ought strictly to observe the rules of parliament, applicable alike to impeachments and bills of this description; but let me ask whether in either of those modes of proceeding there ever was such a case as the present? Was any person ever before accused of a course of criminal conduct for six years together, in places, too, beyond the seas, without knowing from specific allegations, according to the rules of all courts, and the most obvious principles of justice, at what times she was to stand upon her defence? Was any person ever so charged with such numerous offences without any specification of place, though the accused had, during the whole period, been in constant motion by land and sea, from one extremity of Europe to the other?—Did this or any thing approaching it, ever happen before?—There was the less justification for this total departure from all the analogies of trial, since I did not ask to bind the House by the statute of king William, but only asked the names of the witnesses then in their power, and whom they then intended to call, without prejudice to the examination of others that might be legally admissible, from circumstances in the defence; and now,
991990Lord Erskine.
—Why does not the interpreter give the witness's answer?Lord Erskine.
983 said, that his noble friend had expressed his acquiescence in the argument of the noble viscount, and also
983Lord Erskine
987 before proceeding farther in this case of such extreme importance, thought it absolutely necessary that their lordships should take into their serious consideration the question that had now arisen. On this most important and anxious inquiry they should look with caution to the question of the cross-examination of witnesses; and if any rule had been suddenly or hastily laid down, they should revise and amend it as soon as possible. The difficulties arising out of their present situation were innumerable. When they had examined all the
987Lord Grenville,
 perfectly concurred with his noble friend in the object which he had in view. It was certainly expedient that the counsel should be required to state if they proposed any, and if any, what departure from the ordinary practice of cross-examination immediately following the direct examination. Their lordships would, of course, hear both sides; and he was sure they would do so with an earnest desire and determination to adopt that course which they should conscientiously conclude to be the most consonant to the interests of justice.Lord Grenville
993 entirely agreed with the noble earl, that the difficulty arose from the peculiar nature of the case itself. On this important subject, of the period at which the cross-examination of the witnesses should take place, whether partially or wholly after the examination in chief, that had hitherto proceeded upon an understanding, which, however, he now felt it necessary should be converted into a fixed and definite rule, from which their lordships should not hereafter be called upon to depart. He would not, at that time, state what practice he thought it best to adopt. What appeared to him to be the most desirable course was, that their lordships should turn their minds to the serious consideration of the subject,
993Lord Grenville
 observed, that before the motion for counsel being called in was acceded to, he rose to express his satisfaction at the decision their lordships had come to on Saturday. Had the other course been adopted—had that House agreed to any resolution by which it was left open to the suggestions of counsel to tell their lordships what it would be proper and expedient in them to pursue, he should have pronounced it as wholly unprecedented in the usage and practice of parliament. To leave it to counsel to suggest to that House what they, the counsel, thought should be the conduct of that House, would be not only an unprecedented proceeding, but an actual surrender of their most essential privileges. Did their lordships mean to say, that five members of the House of Commons, acting with others, as counsel at that bar of the Lords, were to prescribe the form and manner of their proceedings? Let their lordships but consider the meaning of the rule which was laid down as to the examination of the evidence, and they would see that the whole of the difficulty arose from a misunderstanding of that rule. That rule was founded on the practice of the courts of law, where, subsequently to the examination in chief, the cross-examination of the witness was immediately proceeded upon; but if, in the subsequent course of the case, any facts were discovered which were material to the ends of justice, and to the developement of which the re-production of the witnesses was necessary, it was then their lordships would, of course, take into their consideration such an application. A rule so plain it was difficult to misunderstand; and the fact was, that up to Saturday last there was no deviation from it. Let, then, the course be steadily persevered in; let the cross-examination of the evidence be continued conformably to the usage of the courts of law; and let that House, if subsequently the ends of justice require the re-production of the witness, be ready to attend, and to consider the grounds of such an application.The Earl of Lauderdale
999998 trusted their lordships would feel most sensibly the danger of any deviation from the accustomed rules of evidence and examination, which were so strictly observed in courts of justice,
999998Lord Manners
10011000 observed, that such alterations of opinion as were manifested, seemed to him to prove that noble lords forgot the truth, that "man who is born of a woman had but a short time to live." Last Saturday they agreed to adjourn, for the purpose of considering the limitation or the extent of a rule, and to hear the arguments of counsel as to that rule; to-day his noble friends congratulated the House on the adjournment of Saturday, although, in the same breath, they say, that there was no difficulty whatever in the case. Surely then, if there was no difficulty, the adjournment was unnecessary; and if at one o'clock on Saturday there was no difficulty, it did not require forty-eight hours to deliberate where no deliberation was required. Why did not his noble friends state then that full conviction they now entertained? Why then decide on the necessity of time for the deliberation the nature of a proposition on which there was no doubt? For his part, when he declared that he felt disappointed in the rejection of his motion for the list of witnesses, and that every hour and every measure since taken, induced him more firmly to continue in that opinion, he was still not so arrogantly disposed as to set up his judgment against the collective judgment of that House. But, though then disappointed, he would even now state what, under present circumstances, ought to be the conduct of their lordships. It was impossible in his mind, to follow the course laid down by his noble and learned friend.
10011000Lord Erskine
10041003 contended, that the privilege applied for by her majesty's counsel was not only contrary to the practice of their lordships own House, but to the universal usage of all inferior courts of law. In the discussions which had taken place previous to the introduction of the bill, he had declared, that although he felt it to be the duty of the authors of the measure to refuse a list of the witnesses to be examined in support of it, he was yet perfectly ready to grant any reasonable interval of time to enable her majesty to bring over her own witnesses and make her defence. That was a concession which he both then and now considered to be of infinitely greater advantage than the furnishing a list of witnesses; because, in the latter case, her majesty would come to her defence without knowing before-hand one word of what the witnesses against her had to say; but according to the course which he had suggested, she would come with the knowledge of all that had been said against her, and having the benefit of the delay of the proceedings to procure evidence to rebut it, if it were possible. Therefore, if there were any disadvantages attendant on the mode of proceedings adopted—and that there were disadvantages he did not pretend to deny—he contended they were infinitely more than compensated by the advantages arising from the privilege that had been proposed on that side of the House.—He now came to the question immediately under consideration, and with respect to a matter of fact connected therewith, he thought a noble lord had not been quite correct in his statement. He had talked of an interval in the proceedings, as if something had occurred in the House which gave her majesty's counsel an option as to the time of cross-examining the witnesses. Nothing of the kind had been said in the House according to his understanding of the matter. He was sure he had not said any thing of that nature; but this he had said, that if any special reason could be made out by her majesty's counsel for calling a witness a second time to the bar, he thought their lordships would be disposed to grant all the indulgence in their power, and to afford a greater latitude than could be allowed in a common case. Up to Saturday every thing had gone on regularly; the witnesses had been examined, cross-examined, re-examined by the counsel, and, what was the most
10041003The Earl of Liverpool
10061005 said, that after what had fallen from his noble friend on the cross-bench (lord Lauderdale), and after the desire which was generally felt on Saturday, that counsel should be called in, he was anxious to state distinctly the view which he entertained of the question. It was not desired to call in counsel for the purpose of inviting him to suggest or to dictate to their lordships the precise mode of proceeding which they ought to follow; but it was, that if their lordships were about to adopt a rule deviating from the ordinary course, then that counsel should be heard, to instruct their lordships with respect to that deviation. Their lordships could not wish to act unjustly; had they even adopted the rule without hearing counsel, and should a special cause arise to convince them that it ought to be departed from, they would do so even after making the rule. With reference to what had fallen from the noble earl (Liverpool), he re-
10061005The Marquis of Lansdown
1007 thought, that if the course taken by the House on Saturday was followed up, a most fatal precedent would be established, a precedent which would at any time give counsel an opportunity of interposing a delay of twenty-
1007Lord Ellenborough
101010091008 said, that in considering the present question, he should not make any observations on questions which the House had already discussed—he meant the refusal of a list of witnesses, and of a specification of times and places. With all the respect which he entertained for the noble lords who differed from him on those points, he should still, if called on, give the same vote as formerly, because he was convinced in his conscience that that list would not have obviated one-fortieth part of the present difficulties-He congratulated their lordships that they had paused on Saturday, for he was sure that a more mischievous precedent could not be laid down than the course which they were then pursuing, though he must confess that at first he thought it was the
101010091008The Lord Chancellor
1014101310121011 hoped, after what he had heard, that his noble friend on the cross-bench (lord Lauderdale) would no longer say that this was not a case of great difficulty; for, notwithstanding all the time which had been occupied, and all that had been said in the course of the discussion, he had not yet heard a satisfactory solution of it. It had been said by the learned lord on the woolsack, that this was a difficulty which the House should not hesitate to look at, and to grapple with; and that in obviating it, they should take that course which would be the least deviation from established rules. To this principle he most readily agreed. Their lordships, however, should recollect, that they were sitting on a new case—a proceeding involving not only facts, but considerations of policy, that placed them under the necesssity either of adopting a course that would violate the established rules of justice, or of doing fundamental injustice to the party accused. It was in this view of the difficulties with which the case was beset, that he thought it might be better not to proceed further in the present course, but to send the case back to be tried by those other rules from which he was sorry they had ever departed. He believed, indeed, that, according to the ordinary rules of courts of justice, the liberty now claimed would be allowed to
1014101310121011Earl Grey
unâ voce1015 observed, that the House appeared to him to have already adopted two courses diametrically opposite to each other. Being one of those who were present in consequence of their lordships' order, it was painful to him to express such an opinion on the nature of their proceeding. He did not think, however, that their future course ought to be regulated by any understanding or engagement implied in the minds of individual peers. Their rules ought to be distinctly expressed, and not left as matter of opinion or belief. In his view their proceeding on Saturday last was in manifest contradiction to the principle which they had originally laid down. Counsel had been allowed to renew and complete a cross-examination after a re-examination had taken place; and if they were now to state that new circumstances had arisen into which it was most important farther to inquire, he was sure that in every court of justice, upon a statement so made, such an application would be acceded to, and the Queen be allowed to defend herself against a charge of this nature by the amplest and most unlimited means of adducing new facts in opposition to the evidence. At all events, justice should be done, and no rule could be proper for their adoption which would in effect go to the exclusion of important evidence. The question now was, after the course which they had pursued on Saturday, not whether they would enlarge, but whether they would limit, the powers of counsel. He was not in his place when the last question was put by the learned counsel, but he believed it to have been perfectly regular, and in the usual course of a cross-examination. The House had in-
unâ voce1015Lord Grenville
 conceived that the noble earl (Grey) had not correctly stated the understanding of the House on Saturday. It was true that their lordships had promised advantages to her majesty's counsel equivalent to a list of witnesses and a specification of charges. They were to be at liberty to recall the witnesses, and to examine them as to new facts, but not to suspend a cross-examination after it had actually begun. No disposition had been indicated to depart from the rule as originally laid down.The Earl of Liverpool
1016 observed, that he was not present when the rule alluded to was adopted, but he had a distinct recollection that their lordships had undertaken to afford to the Queen every advantage in some way which she could have derived from a specification of the charges. This was his impression, and he had understood, whilst the first witness, Theodore Majoochi, was under examination, that counsel were to make their election of then finishing their cross-examination, or of afterwards resuming it. Counsel must otherwise, in a case circumstanced like the present, be placed under the disadvantage of examining witnesses of whom they knew nothing, and of drawing from an adverse what they might possibly prove by friendly and willing evidence.
1016Earl Grey
1027ex gratia,1026102510241023instanter10221021in initialibus,1020nisi prius1019venuevenue10181017 addressed their lordships. He begged leave to state the very great difficulty he felt, on the part of her majesty, when called upon to address their lordships on this point. He should feel it much easier to object to the course prescribed by their lordships than to point out any other course. First of all, their lordships would suffer him to remind them that the difficulty was none of their (the counsels') making. If any difficulties, be they numerous or be they few; if any obstacles, be they less or be they greater in their nature, presented themselves to their lordships, none of them were his. The party patronizing this bill had indeed urged, that it was more for his interest to proceed by this bill; they (her Majesty's counsel) on their part and on her part had objected. Although it seemed good to the wisdom and justice of their lordships to reject the course pointed out by her majesty's counsel, and to adopt that pointed out on the other side, if a difficulty had now arisen, her majesty's counsel might say that it had arisen from rejecting their
1027ex gratia,1026102510241023instanter10221021in initialibus,1020nisi prius1019venuevenue10181017Mr. Brougham
1034103310321031103010291028—Nothing, my lords, could tempt me to trespass upon your lordships attention, after the able argument you have just heard, but my deep sense of the extreme importance of that question which your lordships indulgence—I will so call it—upon this subject, has submitted to the consideration of her majesty's counsel—a compliment for which, personally, I will take leave, in the name of my learned friends and myself, to express our high gratitude for the confidence which that kindness implies, while, at the same time, I protest, as counsel for the illustrious accused, against a course which must make her legitimate defenders parties to the injustice of which she complains, and deprive her, in the result of that inquiry, of the effectual means of defending herself against all the modes that might be practised against her, in the course of this long, harassing, and overwhelming investigation. My lords; there is no security for her majesty the Queen—there is no security for the meanest subject in the realm—there is no security for any one of this august assembly, who now sit as judges upon the first of their fellow subjects, but may hereafter stand accused at a bar of criminal justice, without that important right which now, on the behalf of the Queen, we are endeavouring to vindicate from limitations and restrictions, which reduce it to a mockery and a name.
1034103310321031103010291028Mr. Denman.
103710361035 said, that from the speeches of his learned friends,—any one ignorant of the nature of the question before their lordships, would suppose their lordships had under consideration the adoption of some rule in the present case, which was at variance with the practice hitherto adopted in all judicial proceedings, and in direct opposition to the known laws of the land. On the contrary, the real question was, not whether their lordships would depart from such a rule? but whether they would adhere to the established practice of ages, relaxing the rule in the present case, with a view to the benefit of the party accused? His learned friends had introduced many topics which bore no reference to the subject before the House; they had complained of the generality of the charges, and the refusal of the names of the witnesses, as grounds for requiring farther indulgence; but the topics on which they seized were calculated rather for declamatory display than for argument, and consequently could have no influence on their lordships' determination. He begged to remind his learned friends, that there was no indictable offence in which it was essential that time and place should be distinctly specified; for it was competent to the prosecutor to prove the fact, though committed at any time or place different from that which was originally stated. With respect to the demand for a list of the witnesses, the only criminal charge in which an accused party could claim that privilege was the charge of high treason; and he had
103710361035The Attorney General
104010391038 next addressed their lordships, for the purpose of supporting the allegations contained in the bill. He trusted that the House would permit him first to advert to some of the assertions of his learned friend the attorney general for the Queen. His colleague, as well as himself, had been charged by that learned gentleman as acting parties in the present proceedings. Had those charges been fated merely to meet the ear
104010391038The Solicitor General
—No such thing, I expressly limited it to civil cases, but said that an indictment gives a man an equal advantage.Mr. Brougham.
10421041 continued. He thought that the learned counsel was more completely mistaken upon that point, than even if he had contended for the practice in criminal proceedings. In the presence of almost all the law in the land, he denied that there was any such rule; but the learned counsel on the other side introduced every thing, founded or unfounded, for the purpose of making out, if possible, something like a plausible case before the House. After these misstatements by the Queen's attorney-general, in which, however, he was not supported by his learned coadjutor, their lordships would know what reliance in future to place upon statements so broadly made, when upon investigation they turned out to be so utterly unsupported. It was said, that the other side could not cross-examine, Why not? To put the case of Saturday, why could not that witness be cross-examined? She swore that the Queen was present at all the times of which she spoke; and could not the counsel consult their illustrious client, and obtain all the information necessary for cross-examination? Cross-examination,
10421041The Solicitor General
—You cannot allude to what has been stated in the House.The Lord Chancellor.
1043 apologised. He might perhaps say that it had been; suggested, that if the cross-examination were delayed until all the accusing witnesses had been heard, the counsel in support of the bill would have a right to insist that they should not be compelled to cross-examine the evidence for the Queen until after the lapse of a reasonable time. Thus the proceeding might be eternal and interminable, it was impossible to see where it could end. He did not urge these inconveniences so much in answer to the arguments on the other side, as to show the wisdom of the rule now prevailing, and from which he hoped the House would not depart. It could not be infringed without infinite danger and positive mischief—without breaking in upon the rules and principles by which truth can be alone elucidated and investigated. He laid no stress on the observation, that counsel in favour of the bill could not sum up the evidence until the case had been gone through. Besides the course recommended was unjust to the witnesses themselves: much of a cross-examination depended upon small facts and apparently insignificant expressions, which could not be recollected, explained, or reconciled, after the interval of months, or even weeks. As the object of this proceeding was the investigation of truth, he might be allowed to add, that the recommendation would be injurious even to the Queen; the witness would thus have an opportunity of deliberating upon the evidence he should give, and of preparing himself for cross-examination; and to avoid this, all courts of law required that the cross-examination should immediately follow the examination in chief. Besides, a witness under cross-examination might hesitate, and prove the untruth of what he had stated; but if he were allowed to tell his story straight forward, and was followed by other witnesses to the same fact, it might amount to confirmation that could not after wards be shaken.—After recapitulating
1043The Solicitor General
10451044 commenced his reply by stating, thatlittle had been offered on the other side requiring an answer. He could not, however, allow their lordships to separate without setting himself right with regard to a misquotation (undesigned of course) which he was supposed to have made from their lordships' journals. It was easy to misstate a case, and easier to assert, that a case had been misstated. The counsel on the other side were very sharp men; but it would be well for them to be accurate as well as sharp, when they impeached the accuracy of other folks. The attorney-general had fallen into an error, though he was aided and accompanied by the solicitor-general who generally spoke with great contempt of every body but himself—and their lordships. He (Mr. Brougham) made this exception, because the solicitor-general had been pleased to bestow his high commendation upon their lordships: though not lawyers, in the excess of his approbation he had admitted, that their lordships had put some questions to the witnesses in a form sufficiently judicious. (Order, order.) He was merely repeating what had been said by his learned friend, who had not been interrupted while expressing his approbation: it was a tribute from one who filled the high office of the king's solicitor-general—it was of considerable value, and he (Mr. Brougham) trusted it had been received
10451044Mr. Brougham
 said, that the inaccuracy of which he complained was, that in the particular list of times and places given in, his learned friend said it was five months, whereas it was six years.The Attorney General
toties quoties10481047Proprio marte1046 answered, that if time were of any consequence to his argument, he could show that the attorney-general was here again in erroc, for the specification allowed to the duchess extended from January, 1685, to August, 1691; and if the same course had been adopted with regard to her majesty, she would at this moment have stood in a very different situation. So much for the attorney-ge-
toties quoties10481047Proprio marte1046Mr. Brougham
 recommended the House to pause even now in the course they were pursuing, beset as they were with difficulties, and as the only means of getting into the right course, to postpone the further proceeding till the Queen should be ready with her defence, and in the mean time to grant her majesty a list of witnesses, and a specification of times and places. He would make a motion to that effect to-morrow morning.Lord Erskine
1050 observed, that when he made the motion yesterday that counsel should be called in, it was with the view of hearing what might be said on either side on the subject of the instruction he had moved respecting the course of proceeding. He had then observed, that he should not think himself bound by any opinion he had given on the subject of his motion, if, upon the statement of the counsel, it should appear necessary for the due administration of justice, that an alteration should be made with respect to the cross-examinations. He still conceived, however, that the course recommended by his motion was that which was most convenient for their lordships' proceedings; and also, as far as he was capable of forming an opinion on the case of her majesty, the most advantageous for her interests. But the counsel for the Queen had not thought so, and in their argument at the bar had pressed for a contrary course; namely, that they should have leave, af-
1050The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that according to their lordships' standing orders, when a motion was once submitted to their consideration, it could not be withdrawn without the consent of the whole House. It was therefore sufficient that one peer should object, and he declared that he would not consent to the withdrawing of the motion.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, that to remove any objection as to the amendment being proposed by his noble friend, he would move it himself.—The noble lord accordingly moved the resolution stated by the earl of Liverpool as an amendment on the motion made by that noble lord yesterday.The Earl of Harrow by
1052 observed, that the question was now put into a shape which called for their lordships' attention; for it came before them in the shape of a motion made by the first lord of the Treasury, and amended by the president of the council. It was singular enough that this proposition should come from the noble earl opposite, who had contended so strenuously for a different course; but if the motion were to be agreed to, and the counsel for the Queen permitted to suspend the cross-examination of a witness, and resume it at pleasure, he should be glad to know at what time the examinations by the House were to take place. The proper time would be at the close of the cross-examination; but how was that to be done, if the counsel for the Queen, after having cross-examined a witness, were to say he was not sure but that he would have occasion to call up that witness again? He had a right to ask the noble lords what their view of the
1052The Earl of Lauderdale
10541053 felt himself called upon to say a few words, in consequence of what had fallen from the noble lord, and he could not but complain of the tone in which that noble lord had just spoken with respect to the motion under their lordships' consideration. When he made
10541053The Earl of Liverpool
 admitted that the noble earl was perfectly correct in his reference to the orders of the House. He certainly had a right to oppose the withdrawing the motion; but the difficulty could be easily got over, by his proposing the motion he had now suggested as an amendment on his motion of yesterday.The Earl of Liverpool
, had no objection to the counsel for the Crown putting what questions they pleased to the witnesses after the examination-in-chief. He was also willing that, on stating that they wished to call any witness again, they should have leave to subject that witness to a second or renewed examination at any time they might think fit. The only condition he wished to impose was, that the attorney and solicitor-general should not be called upon to close the case in support of the bill until the counsel for the defence had finished all their cross-examinations.The Earl of Liverpool
 wished to know what extent would be deemed sufficient, as it might otherwise run to an interminable length.Lord Ellenborough
 observed, that there might be a limit as to times and places; but if the questions went to the discredit of a witness, he did not see that counsel could be precluded from pursuing their cross-examination.The Earl of Liverpool
1058 thought it his duty to state the view which he now entertained upon this question. If in the course of yesterday's proceedings he had given any opinion which he had since seen reason to alter, he should hold himself under a sacred obligation to acknowledge that he had so altered it. Further reflection, however, had only served to convince him, that the ends of justice never could be obtained, if their lordships yielded to the' proposition now before them. He must be allowed at the same time to say, that he had never expressed any thought so inconsistent with the ordinary course of justice, as that counsel ought to be stopped in the course of their examinations. He never had approved of such a proceeding, but thought, on the contrary, they should be at liberty to carry on their first cross-examination to any extent which in their discretion they might think fit. But he was just as well satisfied of the necessity of exercising some sound and wholesome control over the practice of calling witnesses back, and subjecting them to a renewed cross-examination. They were bound to exercise what the law called a sound discretion in administering justice; and he could not admit the propriety of renewing a cross-examination, unless it was intimated by the counsel claiming such a liberty, that new facts or circumstances had been discovered, or unless it were intended to supply an accidental omission. Counsel might also apply for it in the first instance, if they conceived that any material purpose might be answered by postponing their cross-examination till some further testimony was produced on the other side. This they could only be expected to do in the exercise of a sound discretion due both to
1058The Lord-Chancellor
10601059 expressed his conviction, that if any thing could inspire
10601059The Earl of Harrow by
10621061 said, that if the amendment which had been pro- posed by the noble president of the council were brought to the vote, he should certainly vote for it, although with a deep sense of the great inconveniences attending the whole course of proceeding—a sense which had certainly been much fortified by what had fallen from the noble and learned lord on the woolsack—and with an undiminished preference for that other course which he had before declared it to be in his opinion most desira-
10621061The Marquis of Lansdown
 wished to be informed of the present state of the question before the House.The Earl of Lauderdale
1063 stated, that the amendment before the House was, to omit all the words in the original motion after
1063The Lord Chancellor
 said, he had a proposition to make which he thought it impossible the House should reject. Their lordships had heard the various arguments which had been urged on the subject, and in opposition to each other, by the noble president of the council and the noble and learned lord on the woolsack, the latter of whom had distinctly declared, that to agree to the proposition made by the former would be very much to impede, if not wholly to defeat the ends of justice. Their lordships might have the benefit of the advice of the learned judges; and, under all the circumstances of the case, he submitted to their lordships that they would neglect their duty if they did not avail themselves of it. He proposed therefore that the judges should be asked, "if in a court of law a rule were to be made by which a counsel should be left at liberty to cross-examine a witness immediately after the direct examination to whatever extent he might think proper, with the liberty of calling that witness back and cross-examining him again, what effect such a rule would have on the administration of justice" [No, no]? He thought this proposition ought not to be met with clamour. He thought the House ought to know what effect the judges considered the adoption of such a rule of law would have in the courts below. He knew very well, that if he required the judges to state what effect such a rule would have there (the House of Lords), the proposition would be inadmissible; but he considered it to be quite competent to him to ask them what effect the rule would have in the courts below.The Earl of Lauderdale
1064 said, he must object to this proposition. In the first place, he thought the learned judges would be rather embarrassed to say what effect an entire new rule of law would have on the courts below. In the second place it was not practicable so to assimilate the proceedings before their lordships
1064The Earl of Liverpool
 felt himself bound to state, that the opinion given to the counsel for the Queen was, to take the whole cross-examination at the time, or defer the whole to their defence. There were now three questions before the House: 1st, the examination of the Lords; 2nd, the postponement of the cross-examination; and 3rd, the time of summing up. He would take the last first, as it scarcely required a word, since it was impossible to close the case until the evidence was finished on both sides. As to the examination by their lordships, from which much good had already arisen, he contended there was nothing in the nature of these proceedings, nothing in law, to prevent it. Was there, he asked, any case made out by the counsel at the bar to show that their lordships should not put questions? On the contrary, all parties agreed that such examination was productive of great advantage. In what court had it ever been said that the judges of the court had not a right to examine the witnesses? On the whole, he conceived that the House ought at once to come to a right understanding. Their lordships had no objection to the cross-examination proceeding when the examination in chief was ended, or to its being postponed to a subsequent period; and that the counsel for the Queen should have the privilege and full right either of cross-examining the witnesses immediately on the close of the direct examination, or of postponing it entirely. This was not granted as an indulgence, it was a matter of right.The Earl of Donoughmore
1056 said, that undoubtedly, the difficulties attending either course were considerable, but they appeared to him to press just as heavily on the counsel for the bill, as on the counsel on the other side. The counsel for the bill had to contend with a cross-examination spreading over a series of years, and had as little
1056Lord Ellenborough
de die in diem1067 expressed his satisfaction at the vote which had just been given, as it relieved her majesty's counsel from many of the difficulties which would otherwise fetter them in the discharge of their duty. In fact, the state in which the matter stood before that decision was confusion worse confounded. Having, however, got thus far, the period was perhaps arrived, when every remaining difficulty might be set aside. The noble earl opposite had, yesterday, said, that the refusal of a list of witnesses, in the first instance, was productive of advantage to her majesty, more than equivalent to any disadvantage arising from a publication of the evidence. Supposing this to be true, it only showed them, that the effect of committing an error was, their being obliged to make concessions, which might otherwise be avoided. [The noble lord spoke in so low a tone, as to be at intervals inaudible below the bar]. The vote to which the House had come, only convinced him more and more of the necessity of still doing what the House, in his opinion, ought to have done at first —allow her majesty a list of witnesses, and a specification of the times when, and the places where, the alleged acts of criminality were said to have been committed. He meant, therefore, to move, that the House should now adjourn for such a time as should enable her majesty's counsel to make the necessary inquiries in order to prepare for her defence. And in order to ascertain what time would be necessary, he should propose, that counsel be heard at the bar on the subject. He could not conceive what objection existed against a motion of this kind. The witnesses were all here, and he took it for granted under adequate protection. It was seen, that the names and evidence of the witnesses already examined had gone forth to the public, and yet no violence or insult was offered to them. What disadvantage, what danger, then, could arise from furnishing her majesty with the names of the remaining witnesses? If her majesty did receive a list of witnesses, she ought also to know what they were to prove against her, he did not mean to detail, but generally what each witness was to be called on to substantiate, and specifying also the times and places. This, he repeated, would only be doing what ought, in his opinion, to have been done at first. Then
de die in diem1067Lord Ershine
 wished to ask his noble friend, whether he meant this as a revival of his former motion, on the same subject, which had been negatived? He asked this, as he conceived it to be very different. This motion would go to preclude the counsel for the bill from calling any new witnesses.The Earl of Lauderdale
1068 said, that his object in having the motion read, was, to show that it differed in its character from that which his noble friend had just made —that the latter was more extravagant and more strong than that which their lordships had negatived. After alluding to the consistency of his noble friend, in voting for the amendment of lord Harrowby, and then in proposing that the
1068The Earl of Lauderdale
 observed, that the House had not before come to any determination on the subject.The Earl of Liverpool
Through Mr. Kersten.—"Compensation for the time I had lost."Through Mr. Kersten.Mr. Goltermann.
Through Mr. Kersten.—"That I should lose my. place by it, and I must receive some compensation for it."Through Mr. Kersten.Mr. Goltermann.
—That she does not know whether he is minister in the country, or ambassador.Mr. Goltermann.
Through Mr. Kersten.—Do you mean that you do not know whether he is one of the duke's own ministers, or a minister at the duke's court? [Through Mr. Kersten.Mr. Brougham.
10801079—He lodged in the inn.10801079Mr. Goltermann.
By Mr. Kersten.Witness. to the By Mr. Kersten.Witness.Mr. Brougham
—"And then I retired up stairs."Mr. Goltermann.
10821081Through Mr. Kersten.—She repeated that she went down stairs.10821081Through Mr. Kersten.Mr. Kerslen.
1083—Entschadigung means compensation, belohnung means recompence.1083Mr. Kersten.
1084—Glashuit is a manufactory of glass, where glass is fabricated or made.1084Mr. Kertten.
—She says, "I have never had any thought about this: I never thought that I should be asked about it."Mr. Goltermann.
1085Through Mr. Kersten.—She says, "how do you mean, whether any body has asked me."1085Through Mr. Kersten.Mr. Goltermann.
—When the courier came forward, and ordered a broader bed, did he give any reason for ordering that broader bed?Earl of Mansfield.
 requested leave to submit, through the House, that what the courier said could not be received as evidence.Mr. Brougham
—You have said that you went to make the bed when they had left it, or just as they had left it, what do you mean by they? When I made the bed there was nobody in the room, I had seen nobody when I made the bed.Earl of Limerick.
1086—Had you any conversation with any person respecting your observation
1086Lord Hood.
 prefaced his examination of the witness, by observing, that since the examination had begun, he had not availed himself in any question that he had put, of the knowledge he had acquired as a member of the secret committee. He regretted much the rancour of feeling which possessed the public mind on the present occasion, and which existed to a degree that he had never witnessed on any former occasion.The Earl of Lauderdale
—She adds to that, "when the room was not open, I have placed it before the door."Mr. Goltermann.
 objected to the evidence being given through the interpretation of the marchese di Spineto, not on the ground that he had not interpreted truly, but that he was informed he had seen the witness before, and had interpreted the examination taken out of court by the attorney on the part of the prosecution; he conceived, therefore, that the rehearsal of the evidence which had taken place before, might in some degree affect the mode in which the evidence might be given now.Mr. Denman
 could see nothing in the objection. The marchese di Spineto had been retained as interpreter for the government, and if the attorney had employed him out of the House, it was no reason why his very useful and satisfactory services should now be dispensed with. The interpreter of the other side would be present to assist, should any occasion arise; and it was certain that the House would lose a great deal if any other individual than the marchese were employed between the witness and the House.The Earl of Liverpool
10911090Denman. Through the marchese di Spineto.—He adds the words "as I did."10911090Denman. Through the marchese di Spineto.Mr. Cohen.
107410731072 said, that it had been his fixed intention to take no part whatever in this troublesome, tedious, and lie would add, disgusting business, in which their lordships had been pleased to involve themselves; but the noble earl who had just spoken, and his noble friend on the cross-bench, had introduced topics and matter so extraneous to that immediately before them, that, notwithstanding his previous intention, he could not refrain from occupying the attention of the House on the present occasion. He should have thought, indeed, that the consistency or inconsistency of any noble lord as to the particular mode of proceeding to be adopted in hearing evidence in this disgusting case, could have afforded no opportunity to a minister of the Crown to have risen in his place in parliament, and pleaded against the best law which it was the blessing of this country to enjoy. It was still natural, perhaps, that some individuals should see a connexion between two subjects which to him seemed so distinct and immeasurably distant from each other. It was natural, perhaps, that this distinction should be altogether over looked by members of that party in the J state, who, for the last forty years, saw nothing in the public feelings of the country that was not fraught with treason to their power, and Chat treason always of a more malignant dye than any which had ever preceded it. Those who had entertained this opinion of the events of the last forty years did right now, in attempting to fix the imputation of inconsistency on him to whose powerful professional exertions, combined with that most glorious act of their provident ancestors, he (lord Holland), and many other men who fearlessly thought with him upon public
107410731072Lord Holland
 was of opinion, that the permission already granted the counsel against the bill, of cross-examining at their own time and discretion, gave them every opportunity of acquiring information which they could desire respecting the witnesses for the bill. He thought, therefore, the learned lord's motion unnecessary. The time, in fact, between the first production of a witness, and the cross-examination, as he understood it was to be permitted, would give ever)' opportunity which could be required for scrutinizing the characters of the witnesses.The Earl of Limerick
 thought the motion of the noble and learned lord the only one calculated to extricate the House from the dilemma in which it was placed by the proceeding that had already taken place; otherwise, he feared, their lordships' proceedings would be in their duration interminable. Any alternative which could extricate them from such a situation, he thought it desirable to adopt. Any thing which could rescue them from such an investigation as that in which they were about to embark, in a manner that afforded no prospect of the termination of their proceedings, he was most anxious to see adopted by their lordships. With that view he should certainly vote for the learned lord's motion, as better than that which had been adopted.Lord Calthorpe
1075 said, that as far as he was able he should try and give effect to their lordships' instructions in the proceedings in this case, whatever his own opinion happened to be upon any one of those instructions. He still appre-
1075The Lord Chancellor
1051 was aware that his noble
1051Earl Grey
 was of opinion that it would be most advisable to recur to the proposition originally made, which was, to allow counsel to pursue their cross-examination to any extent, with a liberty to call the witnesses back, and to continue it as far as they might desire.Earl Bathurst
107110701069 said, that the motion already agreed upon by their lordships gave the accused an advantage which, under all the circumstances, he thought it was-desirable should be given; but it was-quite a different thing to adopt such a motion as that now proposed by the noble
107110701069Earl Bathurst
1065 was of opinion that the question which his noble friend proposed to put to the judges, could not be productive of any beneficial answer. He was so persuaded, however, that the amendment, of the noble president of the council would be highly inconvenient, that he could not assent to it. Instead of tending to the discovery of the truth, the mode of examination which the adoption of that amendment would sanction, must tend to the very reverse. It would put the whole of the evidence into the power of the counsel, to manage as he pleased. In his opinion, the cross-examination ought to proceed immediately after the direct examination, although he willingly admitted, that if a sufficient reason were alleged for the proceeding, a witness might be subsequently examined. The proposition before their lordships would, if adopted, enable the counsel to garble the evidence, than which nothing could be more injurious to the ends of public justice.—The effect also would be, that the evidence would be in the utmost confusion, and their lordships would find it impossible clearly and intelligibly to connect the parts. They would not have in their recollection, after the second cross-examination, what had occurred in the first. Although the words "under the especial circumstances of the case," were well intended to guard the proposed rule from being drawn into a precedent; he did not think they would have that effect. Former rules so guarded were, nevertheless, now, cited as precedents. In the duke of Norfolk's case, when the duke attempted to obtain a di-
1065Lord Redesdale
 said, he meant it as a revival of his motion. When a question arose, as to the Crown calling new witnesses, their lordships would, he conceived, be governed by the ordinary practice of the courts of justice. By the vote which had been given, that had been gained which otherwise would have been lost. But the motion he was about to make was at the same time more favourable, and more just towards her majesty.Lord Erskine
 continued—Be it so. He understood that the House appeared inclined to give that which before they appeared disinclined to give. He therefore postponed his motion until he saw to what determination the House was likely to come on the other subject. Surely he could not refuse voting for what he conceived to be good, because there was something which he conceived was better and ought to be granted. He waited until he saw what was the opinion of the House, and his noble friend, who had risen to thrust him out of the possession of the House, now complained that he had not brought forward his motion soon enough. He did not mean that the counsel for the Crown should be bound by the act of William, but he wished that the Crown should, after the cross-examination, not call whom they pleased, but that they should call such evidence as would be legal in a court of law. He would give them the option of calling such witnesses as they thought necessary, under the advice and opinion of the learned judges. Their lordships frequently said, that they wished to assimilate this proceeding, as nearly as possible, to a proceeding in a-court of justice, and with that view it was, that he now proposed an adjournment, in order that the case might, when it again came, proceed without interruption.Lord Erskine
 said, that nothing was more easy than to give the noble lord a satisfactory answer. In the morning, when he came to the House, the noble earl (Liverpool) interfered,and proposed to give to counsel that mode of examination which the House had before refused ["no, no"].Lord Erskine
1055 was happy to hear this-explanation given. He was glad to see-
1055Lord Erskine
 was happy to see ministers at last coming forward to amend their own awkward work. As ministers were thus disposed to amend their own motion, and to correct their own ill-judged proceedings, nothing could give him more pleasure than to withdraw the motion he had proposed, if he should be given to understand that the counsel for the defence were to be permitted to have the advantages to which they were justly entitled.Lord Erskine
 said, that if, when the counsel were called in, they declared themselves satisfied with the mode of proceedings now to be offered to them, he would be silent for ever; but if they said that they were not satisfied, then he would move an adjournment of the House. He wished that counsel should be called in, and that it should be ascertained from them what they required of their lordships. The House did not seem to be fully aware of what the counsel asked. They asked, that evidence should not go forth to poison the public mind without the best antidote they could give at the same time-that they should proceed as far in the cross-examination as they were enabled by their limited knowledge of the witness, and that the bane and antidote should go together. God forbid, that this House should refuse a request so just and so moderate! The noble lord wished distinctly to know if their lordships meant that the counsel for the Queen should, after the adjournment, call the witnesses again and cross-examine them.Lord Erskine
, in explanation, entreated that their lordships would even now pause before they went further into this proceeding. If they still determined to go on, he should, in the progress of the business devote whatever experience he had in judicial proceedings to guide him through their lordships forms.Lord Erskine
 objected to this question. He submitted, that unless the circumstance alluded to could be stated to have happened in the presence of her royal highness, or could, in some way or other, be connected with her agents, their lordships could not, according to the received rules of evidence which governed the inferior courts, allow the question to be put. Their lordships, he conceived, must at once see the propriety and necessity of objecting to a question of this nature.Mr. Denman
 said, their lordships had always been ready to give a certain liberty to counsel in objecting to questions that appeared irregular; and. if they looked to former trials in that House—he spoke particularly of regular trials—they would find that the party prosecuted had been allowed so to object, by the indulgence of their lodships.Mr. Brougham
1111 conceived, that the decision on the propriety of the question must depend on what followed it. For instance, something was said about the receipt of money; and then the witness was asked, whe-
1111The Earl of Lauderdale
 observed, that the noble lord who put the question might give reasons for asking it, and it would then be for the House to decide whether it should be put or not. But, at present, it was so general, that the House knew not how to apply it.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that for the sake of their lordships, and in order to save time, he objected to this question. It was unconnected with the case. If their lordships thought the question ought to be put as to what passed on witness's arrival in England, he would not object to it.Mr. Denman
 observed, that it was for their lordships to decide whether he ought to ask the question. Witness was asked the period of his arrival in England, no doubt with a view to some particular object, not to waste their lordships time, and he conceived he had a right to re-examine on the same point.The Attorney General
1109 said, that he had no objection to any inquiry relative to witness's second arrival in this country, but if this question was to be urged as a precedent, to be referred to for particular purposes, he objected to it. It was not decent to put it; but decent, or indecent, he contended that it was wholly irregular, as it had nothing to do with the
1109Mr. Denman
 contended that he had a right to put the question. The witness had been asked how long he had been in England, and where he now was, with a view to show that the witnesses were living together; he therefore had a right to show why that was now the case.The Attorney General
of said, that his learned friend's statement took him completely out of court. He was sure their lordships would not now try that collateral question, namely, what circumstances operated upon the witness's mind to induce him to join the other witnesses? This might produce an injurious impression towards his client. The attorney-general, who was there only to see justice done to all parties, ought not to put the question; at all events, he begged it might not be put until their lordships had formed their judgment on it.ofMr. Denman
1110—On the occasion on which you have described Mahomet to have used certain gesticulations in the presence of
1110Marquis of Lansdown.
—When you state that her royal highness did not send for Mahomet on the occasion of his using certain gesticulations, do you mean that her royal highness did not send you for Mahomet, or that you know that her royal highness did not send for Mahomet at all? I never saw any person sent to fetch him, and I do not know whether any person was sent to fetch him; I know that she came when he was dancing.Earl of Liverpool.
—Will you translate into English time the time?Mr. Solicitor General to the Marchese.
—My lords, I was born in Lombardy myself, and I know this is the mode of reckoning.Mr. Cohen,
—What agreement was made by you with Restelli for your coming over to England?Mr. Tindal.
1103—Was any agreement made between you and Restelli for your coming over here? No agreement.1103Mr. Tindal.
—Do you mean to say, that you never have been examined in England previously to your appearance here this morning? There was somebody who took me into a room, and asked me, whether it was true that I had said so, and I said "Yes."Lord Chancellor.
—About how many days ago? It was last week; I do not know the day, but it was last week.Earl of Liverpool.
1123 said, that he and his friends had no complaint to make against any part of the interpretation hitherto. The French of the marquis di Spineto was certainly not so good as his Italian, but at least for this day he had no objection to its being continued, and to-morrow another interpreter could be procured.1123Mr. Brougham
112611251124—Did her royal highness say any thing more upon that subject? Her royal highness only said, that she wished to take that, because it was far from Genoa and the English.112611251124Mr. Solicitor General.
—You have mentioned balls given by the princess; who asked the company to those balls, did the princess, or were the servants allowed to ask their friends? I do not know who invited the company; they came, but I do not know who invited them, because I attended to my work.Lord Falmouth.
—Did you consider the motions of Mahomet as the customary motions of Mahomet in his dances? Yes, he always made this gesture, as a custom he had in his dances.Lord De Dunstanville.
Louisa Demontmen?—You have stated that at the exhibitions of Mahomet many persons were present; were women present as well as Louisa Demontmen?Earl of Darnley.
1121112011191118111711161115111411131112In French, through the Marchese di Spineto.—You do not understand English, do you? Tres peu.1121112011191118111711161115111411131112In French, through the Marchese di Spineto.Mr. Williams.
 said, he interposed with great reluctance, because he thought the interpreter not quite competent to the task he had undertaken; he should be wanting to himself and to his country in a case of so much importance if he did not say, that the mode of interpretation as it had been conducted since this witness was called had not been satisfactory to him.The Duke of Hamilton
 said, that the marquis di Spineto had shown himself an excellent Italian, but he did not seem quite so perfect in the French language. He was not aware that any material mistake had been made by him, but the interpreter had certainly appeared embarrassed sometimes, and it might be better if a gentleman could be procured more conversant with French.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that from the inquiries they had made, they had reason to think the marquis perfectly competent to discharge the duty he had undertaken. He and the interpreter on the other side had only differed regarding a single expression.The Solicitor-General
11061105Paolo Oggioni—You have stated that you have signed a deposition at Milan: you have also stated that you have not since been examined: what do you mean by stating that you had not been since examined? I was thinking that you were asking me whether I had been examined at Milan before I came to England, and I was not examined there.11061105Paolo OggioniEarl Grey.
—No foundation having been given for this question, I conceive the learned lord on the woolsack has very properly stated that it cannot be put. This point has already been decided on the re-examination: and though I am ready to contend for the fullest latitude of examination by your lordships, I think you will find it a matter of sound discretion to pause before you allow a question to be put, which the House, on the decision of the judges, has already decided cannot be regularly put.Earl Grey
 agreed, that no unfaithful translation had been given by the interpreter, and that his task was an arduous one, recollecting the liability of confusing three languages, two of them not his own. He had performed his duty in his native tongue in the most satisfactory manner.Earl Grey
1122 admitted, that the interpreter did not seem sufficiently acquainted with the idiom of the French language, although he was not aware that he had made
1122The Earl of Harrowby
—Did any thing particular happen to you upon your first arrival at Dover? Yes, much.Lord Combermere.
1129—Did you remain in the room for the purpose of undressing her royal highness? Before her royal highness entered, or afterwards.1129Mr. Solicitor-General to the Witness.
 stated that the ques-had not been rightly interpreted.The Solicitor General
113211311130 stated that the translation had been given to the witness "within."113211311130Mr. Garston
113511341133—I have heard but not seen them do any thing.113511341133Mr. Garston.
—The expression was, "as she was at night after I had undressed her."Mr. Garston.
—The reply to that question was, "I know nothing about it."Mr. Garston.
1136—Not a small cloak, but a cloak of silk.1136Mr. Garston.
—The witness said, "I do not know how long."Mr. Garston.
1137—She repeats, "I do not recollect the time."1137Mr. Pinario.
Interpreter.—114011391138 stated that the other interpreter had used the word "Gorge" in putting the question, and that that means the neck rather than the bosom; that it is sometimes used to imply it, but not generally.Interpreter.—114011391138Mr. Garston
11571156115511541153115211511150114911481147114611451144114311421141—She was speaking in the presence of Pergami, and consequently it seems, therefore, that it applied rather to the position of the shirt than to the person.11571156115511541153115211511150114911481147114611451144114311421141Mr. Garston.
 stated that he had no farther questions to ask this witness.The Solicitor General
 stated, that he was unwilling to press upon the witness, after the fatigue of so long an examination in chief; but feeling at the same time that inconvenience might result from the division of the cross-examination, he desired to leave the matter entirely in the hands of their lordships.Mr. Brougham
—When you were asked two or three questions before, and then to describe more particularly the appearances of the bed, did you not understand that to apply to persons sleeping in it? I understood that I was asked to say in what condition the bed was, whether it was much deranged.Mr. Williams.
 their servants sleeping in the house at Naples at that time? I saw their servants in the day-time, but I do not know whether they slept in the same house.Had sir William Gell and Mr. Keppel Craven
Garslon.116311621161 had however men-servants at that time? Each of them had one servant.Garslon.116311621161Both sir W. Gell and Mr. Keppel Craven
Through Mr. Pinario.Garston.]11651164 —She now adds, "I saw many costumes, but I do not recollect seeing one of Victory."Through Mr. Pinario.Garston.]11651164Mr. Garston.
Garston.116811671166 —She now speaks of the word "robe" instead of "jupe;" she now says, I must be mistaken, for it was the same jupe of which I spoke before.Garston.116811671166Mr. Garston.
 desired that the examination might proceed through the interpretation of Mr. Garston.Mr. Brougham
11701169 was directed to attend to the-examination, and to interpose in case of any
11701169Mr. Pinario
 objected to the question.Mr. Solicitor General
1171—How much of that paper that has been before you so long, was submitted to your eye during the time you have
1171Mr. Williams.
Donoughmore—Do you now see the line and a half that is before you? Yes.DonoughmoreMr. Williams.
1172 said, with respect to
1172The Lord Chancellor
 said he had overlooked that circumstance.The Lord Chancellor
117511741173—Was it not in the month of November 1817, that you quitted the service of the princess? Yes.117511741173Mr. Williams.
 stated, that he had not interposed when the counsel against the bill had asked as to particular expressions used by the witness, but that now that he was proceeding to read a long letter, he felt it necessary to submit, that the regular course was for him to produce it, and put it into the hand of the witness, and to ask whether it is her hand-writing or not; and that he had no right, without having so done, to read the contents of a letter, which was assumed to exist.The Attorney General
nisi prius,1178pro aris et focis;v.nisi prius,1177nisi prius1176 submitted, that he had been perfectly in order. In cross-examinations there were two modes which an advocate had a right to take, with a view to try the veracity of a witness. First, as
nisi prius,1178pro aris et focis;v.nisi prius,1177nisi prius1176Mr. Williams
 only begged to state, from his own recollection, that in the case to which Mr. Williams had referred, the rule was decided to be that which his learned friend had stated by Mr. Justice Bayley. He (Mr. Brougham) was putting a writing into the hands of the witness, and asking him to deny or to acknowledge his own hand-writing—nothing more. He proved it, and then Mr. Scarlett objected to his examining to the contents or the writing of that letter, upon which Mr. Justice Bayley held that he had a right to examine the witness from such letter, holding it in his hand, without showing it to that witness. The learned judge so ruled, for this obvious reason-that if he (Mr. Brougham) did show it to the other, there must be an end, at once, of all possibility of his trying the witness's credit.Mr. Brougham
1180nisi prius,1179 would dismiss the two cases which had been cited with this observation—that counsel who quoted cases from memory always did so according to their own impressions of the law upon the subject: those in question had been cited by his learned friends in their own favour. He should not remark upon the declaration which had been used by his learned friend, Mr. Williams. "It is mine and your lordships' duty" (continued the learned gentleman) "to look upon this question according to those rules by which your lordships will conceive yourselves to be bound;" he meant the rules of evidence applying to other courts of justice. Whether the question was one that was material or immaterial, if he felt
1180nisi prius,1179The Attorney General
de novo,1186 observed, that he understood the usual practice to
de novo,1186The Marquis of Lansdown
 said, that if the question of striking out this evidence from their minutes was to be debated, it ought to be debated with a full statement before them of the whole matter, and in that case it would be proper to adjourn till the next day. It certainly appeared to him to be a most important and serious question.The Lord Chancellor
1187 observed, that he was not responsible for the order of their lordships' proceedings; he was but a simple peer amongst many. He objected to an examination appearing and going forth which the judges had pronounced to be irregular. That opinion of the judges ought, in his view, to be construed as looking backward as well as forward, and as affecting the whole of that day's examination. If, however, this was contrary to the general impression of their lordships, he was willing to withdraw his motion.1187The Earl of Donoughmore
 —Is that your hand-writing? (a letter being put into the hand of the witness.) Yes.Mr. Williams.
 objected to any question being put as to the contents of the letters, and submitted that the written instruments must be produced, and must speak for themselves.Mr. Attorney General
1189l.incunabula1188 remarked, that the attorney-general's objection was certainly a short one, but if he understood it rightly, a more important question, as affecting the administration of justice, never yet arose from the beginning of the law to this time. No man was more disposed than himself to bow with humility to great legal authorities, but in that high court, and in a cause of such high importance, he should be ashamed of himself, if he did not fairly, candidly, and manfully, state his own opinion to their lordships. The rule in question was one of practice rather than of written authority; if there had been any authority in the books respecting it, that authority should have been produced. But in the absence of all recorded reference or citation on the subject, he should assume that none was to be found. If the rule were as the attor-
1189l.incunabula1188Mr. Williams
1190Non constat said, that the question now depending was of the utmost importance as it applied to the evidence which might be settled or unsettled by it. It was of great importance to the cause immediately before them, to their proceedings on all other occasions, and involved a rule of practice that might affect the administration of justice, not only in the highest courts, but before the lowest tribunals. The great rule of evidence, as laid down and recognised, he took to be this—that without any previous examination, the letters or written statements of either party on the record may be given in evidence, because by putting or suffering himself to be put on the record, he let in the adversary to produce all the declarations or statements which during his life he had ever made. Suppose he gave a witness under cross-examination no knowledge of the existence of a written document contradicting his testimony most materially, in what situation would the witness be placed. 1190Non constatMr. Brougham
 said, that the whole point lay in a very narrow compass. Unquestionably the letters of a party in a cause were evidence against him; but no declaration in writing by a witness could be received in evidence to contradict him without being read. In cross-examination all that was wanted was, the negative by the witness, and then the contradiction must be supplied: but it must be supplied in the regular way, and according to established rule. Where a witness was contradicted by parole, the witness to contradict him must be produced and cross-examined by the adverse party, and the same rule applied to documentary evidence: that also must be produced and read, that the nature of its contents might be properly judged of. This was the fallacy of the argument on the other side; for if they asked questions regarding letters, those letters must be produced at the proper period. In the case before baron Wood, it was merely decided, that matter collateral to the issue could not be introduced; but here the letter itself was put into the hands of the witness, and the consequence was, that if it were to answer any purpose, it must be read in due course. It had been contended, that this was doing injustice to the witness, who ought to be allowed an opportunity of explanation; but if that were required, it could be afforded at any time by recalling the witness. The written declaration of a witness, like every other written paper, must speak for itself: no examination of its contents was ever allowed by parole, and if he did not cite authorities upon this point, it was because the rule was too well known and too often acted upon, to need such support.The Attorney General
1182vivá voce,1181 said, that whatever his own opinion might be upon this question, it was one which he thought it would be most advisable to refer to the learned judges. They might be asked, what would be the rule of evidence, in the courts below, applicable to a case similar to the present. He by no means concurred in the view which had been taken of it by the noble lord who had just spoken. When he (the lord chancellor) had the honour of attending courts of law, he al-
1182vivá voce,1181The Lord Chancellor
 thought, that there could be no doubt, if the witness had confessed this paper to be her handwriting, that the cross-examination upon the strength of it was quite regular. But his doubt upon the subject was this—that it should have been proved. Counsel were making the same use of this unauthen-ticated paper as if it had been already regularly proved. If the witness had declared it was her hand-writing, then they might have been allowed to use it for the purposes of cross-examination; but he doubted, under present circumstances, whether they had a right to make any use of it whatever. What, he would ask, had the whole of the cross-examination tended to? To discredit the witness, if he might use the term, by anticipation. Having shown her that letter, it should be proved; but that could not be done at the present moment, because they could not interrupt her testimony. The witness then, as far as these letters went, must leave the bar, an uncontradicted witness: and the fact being so, she ought to have the benefit of: it. Instead of this, here had been a cross-examination of nearly two hours, and he protested against a proceeding like that upon which their lordships were called upon to interfere being allowed to produce any discredit of the witness in this stage. A very extraordinary objection had been made to the attorney-general, that because he did not interfere before, as he might have done, he ought not to interfere now; so that, because that which was irregular had been allowed to go on for an hour or two, it ought to be permitted to continue.The Earl of Donoughmore
non constat had a doubt whether their lordships could put the proposed question: supposing the signature or subscription were shown and proved, non constatThe Earl of Lauderdale
1183 thought, that another question had arisen in the course of the examination. The question was, whether parties were entitled to examine upon certain expressions? But previously to the ascertaining of this, there was
1183The Earl of Liverpool
1184.—My lords; the Judges have conferred upon the questions propounded to them by your lordships: the first question was in these words, "Whether, in "the courts below, a party on cross-examination would be allowed to represent, in the
1184Lord Chief Justice Abbott
1185, after a consi-
1185The Earl of Liverpool
 expressed a hope that their lordships would hear him before they came to any resolution upon this subject.Mr. Brougham
 conceived the subject to be of so much importance, that he should be guilty of a dereliction of his duty, if he did not fairly state his own impressions respecting it. He should be glad also to hear the opinions of other noble lords, although he himself saw but one way of getting out of their difficulty. The opinion of the judges went to affect the whole of that day's proceeding, and if they were not to persevere in an irregular course, neither ought what had been irregular to remain upon their Journals. He thought, too, that it would be unjust to allow the evidence upon an examination which had been erroneously pursued, to go forth to the public. This might serve the purposes of the defence, by casting general discredit as soon as possible on a witness's testimony, but it was for their lordships to prevent any improper influence over the administration of justice. He should therefore in the mean time move, that after communication was made to counsel of the opinion delivered by the judges, they should also be informed that the whole evidence with regard to the letters would be expunged from the minutes of the House.The Earl of Donoughmore
 observed, that they could not strike all this evidence out of their minutes without in the first place hearing counsel against it.The Earl of Lauderdale
1192—My lords; the, judges have conferred upon the questions last proposed to them by your lordships: the first partofyour lordships question is in these words, "Whether, when a witness is cross-examined, and upon the production of a letter to the witness under cross-examination, the witness admits that he wrote that letter, the witness can be examined in the courts below whether he did or did not in such letter make statements, such as the counsel shall, by questions addressed to the witness, inquire are or are not made therein; or whether the letter itself must be read as the evidence, to manifest that such statements are or are not contained in the letter?" My lords; in answer to this part of your lordships question, I am to inform your lord ships, that the judges are of opinion, in the case propounded, the counsel cannot by questions addressed to the witness, inquire whether or no such statements are contained in the letter, but that the letter itself must be read to manifest whether such statements are or are not contain-
1192Lord Chief Justice Abbott.
1193, before he made his election
1193Mr. Brougham
 told tire counsel for the Queen, that they must make their choice whether they would have them read now, for the greater convenience of cross-examination, or would produce them in a subsequent stage of the business. In both cases they must be considered as the evidence for and of the Queen. He would look more particularly at the duchess of Kingston's case.The Lord Chancellor
 added, that Mr. Williams had one or two other questions to put to the witness before he examined her on the contents of the letters.Mr. Brougham
1194—You have been thirteen months in England? Yes.1194Mr. Williams.
boná fidepro formá, tendered the letters in evidence. The Solicitor General desired their lordships might be informed, whether the counsel against the Bill meant to put questions upon the letters after they should have been read. Mr. Williams, of counsel for the Queen, stated that he should put a question upon them. An observation being made on the above statement, it was explained to be the intention of the counsel for the Queen not to put a single question merely boná fidepro formá,Mr. Brougham
 did not think it was necessary to mark the paper in this manner, since it was stated, on their lordships' minutes, that the letter exhibited to the witness was doubled down lengthwise, so as to show the first half of every line.Earl Grey
 thought, that if- the witness admitted the letter to be her hand-writing, the examination might be proceeded in. If not, he thought it ought not to be allowed.Lord Redesdale
 was of opinion, that they might show the witness a small part of the letter, in order to give her an opportunity of ascertaining whether it was of her writing or not.Lord Erskine
 stated, that the examination had not been objected to till it had proceeded a very considerable length. If the whole evidence taken under it were struck out, their lordships must, in consistency, go back, and strike out many other pieces of evidence. They were probably not aware how far this would carry them, or that it might lead to the necessity of revising the whole of their minutes, and to infinite debate upon what parts ought or ought not to be expunged. In any case, however, the counsel ought to be heard if their lordships entertained the present question.Lord Erskine
1191 observed, that if questions founded on the letters were put to the witness, no further use could be made of them then, but they must be produced in the proper stage of the case hereafter. He begged leave to say, however, that whatever might be the rules of courts of law where the case of the accused followed immediately that of the accuser,
1191Lord Erskine
 said, it appeared to him that the more preferable course would be for the queen's counsel to go directly to work. They should produce the letter— they should ask the witness whether or no it was her hand-writing; and then if she doubted or denied it, that would be no matter, because others need not doubt about it. It would be easy to examine others as to her hand-writing; and then it would be seen how far that which was written in the letter might be in contradiction, or otherwise, to what she had deposed at the bar. There might be, as he apprehended, danger in the other course. Counsel might hold the letter in their hands, and say to witness, "Did you not write this, or something like this?" and she might reply, "I wrote to this or that effect;" so that there would be nothing like a definite answer, and infinite time would be consumed. Therefore such a course, instead of arriving at the desired object by a direct and speedy method, would be as circuitous as for himself to go round by Hampstead and Highgate to his own house.Lord Erskine
—You are not asked whether you know it to be yours, but whether you believe it to be yours? I cannot say positively that it is not my hand-writing, but I do not believe it is.Lord Erskine.
 was of opinion that they ought not to proceed upon the motion till some application was made on the part of counsel for that purpose, nor until after it was shown, question by question, and article by article, to what parts the objection was applied.Lord Grenville
, by leave of the House, stated, in their presence, that a reference having been made by the learned counsel for her majesty, at the close of yesterday's proceedings, to the trial of the duchess of Kingston, where it was stated, that a letter had been presented to a witness (Judith Phillips) on cross-examination, and having been acknowledged by her to be her hand-writing, had been afterwards read in evidence, not as part of the defendant's case; his lordship had since referred to the printed trial, and had compared the statement contained in that with the Journals of their lordships' House; and his lordship read at length the proceedings touching the same, both as they appeared in the printed trial and upon the Journals of the House; after which, the counsel were informed that, in the opinion of the House, the proceedings touching the said letter, as set forth in the printed trial, did not appear to establish, or destroy, or affect the opinion delivered by the learned judges to the House yesterday; and that, according to the proceedings as they appeared upon the Journals of the House, there was no statement whatever there, to show that the letter was ever read: therefore, the House was of opinion, in the present case, to adhere to the rule as laid down yesterday.The Lord Chancellor
 then informed the counsel against the bill, that they might proceed with their cross-examination; adhering to the rule which their lordships had laid down yesterday.The Lord Chancellor
 said, he presumed with respect to reading the letters of the witness in that stage of the proceeding?Mr. Brougham
 replied in the affirmative. If the learned counsel proposed to read them in the present stage of the proceeding, they must be prefaced by a statement, according to the rule laid down yesterday.The Lord Chancellor
 begged to ask whether his lordship did not think, in the case of the duchess of Kingston, that Mr. Wallace intended the letter to be read as part of the proceedings when he read it?Mr. Brougham
 said, that he thought the letter might be meant to be so read at the time, but as far as they could judge from what they saw on the Journals, an objection being taken, Mr. Wallace (whose knowledge of the law, and especially of the law of evidence, was as great, perhaps, as that of any man who ever lived), seeing what sort of an objection that would be in the result, thought, in the exercise of his discretion and judgment, that it would be better to put the letter in his pocket, and say no more about it.The Lord Chancellor
11981197 was again called in, and further cross-examined as follows by Mr. Williams, through the interpretation of Mr. Garston.11981197Then Louisa Demont
 was the gentleman that examined you in Italy? Yes.Mr. Powell
1199—Did Mr. Powell examine you at any time in England? No.1199Mr. Williams.
 here interposed, and begged that the witness might be ordered to withdraw. After she had retired, he put it to their lordships whether the disclosures already made ought not to vitiate the whole of the witness's evidence. It appeared that she had been brought before a magistrate, and there sworn, through the activity and zeal of the attorney on the other side; and this, after the proceedings in the case had been commenced before their lordships. It was for their lordships consideration whether they were not called upon to interfere in consequence of the influence which had been exercised over the witness, and of the most outrageous proceeding which she had described.Mr. Brougham
1200ex-parte followed in support of the objection. He observed, that if the evidence of a witness, situated as Demont was, were received, very considerable danger would probably arise from the precedent. Every witness came into court to speak the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. But here a party came forward, whose conscience was already pledged to an 1200ex-parteMr. Williams
 was of opinion that the objection taken by the learned counsel did not affect the competency of the witness to give evidence. If the circumstance alluded to affected the credit of the witness, it would be open to observation when the whole case was understood; but to stop the cross-examination now, would be acting against the resolution to which their lordships had come. In ordinary cases he was quite clear that observations of the nature made by the learned counsel could only be urged after the re-examination, as affecting the credit of the witness's testimony.The Lord Chancellor
—Then you are understood to say, that, with the exception to which you have alluded, the swearing and the examination at Milan, you have not been examined at all upon this subject till you came here? No.Mr. Williams.
 stated, that, with the permission of the House, he proposed now to read two letters; that three had been proved, but that, of course, it was at the option of the counsel whether they would read the whole, and that, on reading the third, it did not occur to him to be necessary to put any questions upon cross-examination.Mr. Williams
 answered "Certainly."Mr. Williams
 proposed, that the letters should be read first in French by one interpreter, and then the translation read by the other; the interpreter who had read the letter holding it in his hand, and stating whether he agreed in the interpretation.Mr. Brougham
1201 stated, that he had no desire that any person not connected with the proceedings before the House, should be introduced by the reading of the letter; and consequently that he had no objection to the name being omitted in the reading or in the copy of the letter, as it might appear upon their lordships minutes.1201Mr. Brougham
 the interpreter, produced a paper, and was asked,Then Mr. Garston,
—Have you compared that in your hand with the original? I have.Mr. Brougham to Mr. Garslon.
1202**—Who is the count to whom you allude in the letter first read? The count Schiavini.1202**Mr. Williams.
1203 objected to a statement of any conversation with Mr. Pergami in the absence of the princess.1203Mr. Williams
1207120612051204 came into my chamber and said, that her royal highness wished to dismiss my sister also on account of me. I was very sorry for that, for my sister not having any fortune at home could not live at home. I begged Mr. Pergami to speak to the princess, in order that she might keep my sister: he promised to do it, and at the same time advised me to write a letter to her royal highness because she was much offended against me, and to recommend my sister to her, and to ask her pardon. I wrote the letter at Pe-saro.—The following morning, when I parted with my sister, she recommended to me when I wrole to her to write to her nothing which could prejudice or hurt her; I promised that I would, on the contrary, do every thing in my power in order that she might keep her place; I wrote also to her royal highness the letter which has been seen from Rimini. I wrote to my sister several other times, and always in those same letters I spoke much of her royal highness, because I knew that they would be intercepted.—About the same time in which I wrote that letter, I had formed the idea of quitting Switzerland and coming into England, at the time that I received information that if I could set off, and have letters of recommendation, I should be placed here as a governess; at the same time being afraid that her royal highness would dismiss my sister, I wrote to my sister, and I dare not write freely for fear the letter should be seen: I said to my sister what has been read in the letter, only to let her know, that if she were dismissed, I would find the means of placing her here, and that I would pay her journey; at the same time, I knew that since I had left the princess, she had always said that she was afraid I should speak against her, and as I knew that the princess would read the letter also, I wished that she might be convinced that I would not speak against her even if I came into England. I have often had questions put to me in private conversations, and I have always avoided saying what took place in the house. This is the reason why I wrote that letter to my sister.1207120612051204Mr. Pergami
 objected to the question, slating, that there was no proof of the former letter having been intercepted.Mr. Brougham
By a Lord.1208—Did you afterwards see that second letter? I saw it a long time afterwards.By a Lord.1208Mr. Solicitor General.
 objected to the question.Mr. Williams
1209—At the time when this letter was produced to you the following morning by her royal highness, was any person in the room with her royal highness? There were several other persons.1209Mr. Solicitor General.
1210 objected to the question.1210Mr. Williams
— The words were, "Je vis que Pon fermait la porte."Mr. Garston.
1211—The words are, "I heard that the key was turned."1211Mr. Garston.
—In what situation in her royal highness's household was monsieur Schiavini? A little time he was master of the ceremonies.Mr. Solicitor General.
1212—On your examination in chief you were asked whether you could describe the situation in which you found the large bed at Naples after the second night of your arrival there; you have said that you could not, but on the cross-examination of the learned counsel on the succeeding day, on being questioned as to the situation of that bed, you said you could describe it; what was the state of that large bed on the morning after the second night of your arrival at Naples? I said that I could not describe it, because I might have had to make use of terms which were not decent.1212Earl of Limerick.
—You said that you think the bath was in the dining-room, was there not more than one occasion on which the princess used the bath? The princess bathed on more than one occasion.Earl of Liverpool.
1217—By whom did you suppose that the letter you wrote to your sister would be first read? I believed that my letter might be read by Mr. Pergami or by the princess.1217Lord Ellenborough.
1218—Did you ever receive a letter from your sister containing the mark which you had agreed should be communicated through your future correspondence? I have only received a letter from my sister, but I do not recollect whether there was any such mark—the letter which I mentioned before, which had been taken up at the post.1218Marquis of Lansdown.
1219—Was it the information contained in that anonymous letter which induced you to think of coming to England as a governess? I had already had thoughts of it before.1219Earl of Lauderdale.
1220—If there had been any wet linen in the bath-room on board the polacre, which the princess had used, would it have been your business to have taken it away? Either my business or my sister's,1220Lord Falmouth.
—Were you sincere in those parts of your letter which speak the praises of the princess? In speaking of the personal qualities, how she was good and patient, I was sincere.Earl of Lauderdale.
—You have said more than once, that at the time you wrote that letter you were much attached to herroyal highness, when did that attachment cease? This attachment ceased when I heard that herroyal highness had said several things of me in the house of her royal highness; that several things had been said of me in the house of her royal highness.Earl of Darnley.
—On board the polacre, on the return from Jaffa, there was a communication between the tent and the dining-room, was that communication open or closed during the night? The communication descended into the dining-cabin.Earl of Morton.
1196 said, he was clearly of opinion, that the law, as laid down by the learned judges yesterday, had been most correctly stated. He re-
1196The Lord Chancellor
1215—Had you any reason to believe that the princess was in fact surrounded by spies? I never saw any spies in the house, that I knew as such.1215Marquis of Buckingham.
dans la capitale de I'Europe."l'ecrivenr,une haute protection1213la Capitate dc I'Europe."—On the night at Scharnitz, when you were ordered to take your bed and leave the room where the princess slept, where did you pass the remainder of the night? In a room where there were the countess Oldi and my sister.dans la capitale de I'Europe."l'ecrivenr,une haute protection1213la Capitate dc I'Europe."Earl Grey.
1214—You have now heard the letter read, is not the assertion that the princess's enemies acted with bitterness, and that she was surrounded by spies, founded upon the fact that you have just stated, and not upon what the princess had told you? It was upon what the princess had said to me, that she was surrounded by spies and enemies.1214Earl Grey.
1216—You have stated, that the reason of writing in that mysterious manner, which has been alluded to, was for fear of these letters being intercepted? Yes.1216Earl of Derby.
 also expressed himself thoroughly satisfied with the decision of the judges. That the letter had not been allowed to be read in the case of the duchess of Kingston, was evident; because, after Mr. Wallace had been heard, no entry appeared in the Journals of its having been read.Lord Redesdale
 said—My lords, it does not appear to me that what has been read from the duchess of Kingston's case goes at all to oppose the opinion delivered by the learned judges yesterday; and if it had, I should have thought it entitled to no regard. I am now approaching fast to be one of the oldest members of the profession of the law, and I have no hesitation in declaring to your lordships, that the opinion delivered by the judges so entirely corresponds with all the principles that I collected at the bar, and from the whole practice of the courts in my time, that if any judge had held a contrary opinion, which it had become my duty to resist, I would have tendered a bill of exceptions, and can have no doubt that it would have been supported upon a writ of error, by an unanimous judgment of this House.Lord Erskine
 objected to this question, as not arising out of his cross-examination.Mr. Tindal
, in support of the question, staled, that it was put in order to do away an inference arising from the circumstance of the witnesses being together.Mr. Parke
 said, he had no objection to the question, but he submitted to their lordships, that there would be no end to the inquiry, if all these unnecessary details were entered into.Mr. Brougham
 waved the question.Mr. Parke
—You have said, that when you opened the door you saw the princess and Pergami sitting, with Pergami's arm round the princess's neck, and that her breasts were uncovered so; do you mean by that that the breasts were bare? I saw it so, and, as far as I saw, I saw it uncovered.Earl of Liverpool.
—How far did you see the breasts uncovered? I did not stay to look; I saw it, and made my escape; I saw it in the twinkling of an eye, and it was uncovered as far as here; I saw the breasts (he veduto le mammelle); I saw the breasts.Lord Chancellor.
—Had Pergami his hand upon the princess's breasts? They were so [The witness put his hand round the neck of the Interpreter so as to reach the breast.]A Peer.
1239—How was the princess dressed at that time? I cannot say; I say what I saw; I was surprised, and went away.1239Duke of Hamilton.
 rose to observe, that the interpreter had joined in the laugh which the answer of the witness had elicited from some of their lordships. He could not help thinking that such conduct was extremely indecorous, and ought not to pass without some animadversion from their lord-shins.The Marquis of Downshire
 thought the conduct to which the noble marquis alluded was altogether involuntary, and occasioned by the peculiar manner in which the witness had given his testimony. If the interpreter had not controlled the feeling which the circumstances were calculated to excite, some of their lordships had also been unable to restrain themselves, and he thought, therefore, that it would be a little too hard to visit the conduct of the interpreter with any degree of severity.The Earl of Liverpool
12411240Alessandro Finetli thought that demeanour of this sort was highly indecorous, and intimated that opinion to the interpreter12411240Alessandro FinetliThe Lord Chancellor
cuts interposed. He begged to remind his learned friend that they had no cutsMr. Brougham
—What do you mean by the word "embrace?" She was doing so with her hands [making a motionj.Lord Chancellor.
1242—In what direction were their faces at that time—towards each other? One opposite the other (Puna contro paltra).1242Mr. Attorney General.
1243Domenico Brusa stated, that he had no questions to propose to the witness.1243Domenico BrusaMr. Wilde
 objected to the question as leading.Mr. Denman
—Was there any and what other door in the room you have mentioned, besides that leading into the room in which you were working? There was another door.Mr. Parke.
1244 objected to the question, it not appearing who had told the witness that it was Pergami's, or on what ground he supposed it to be Pergami's.1244Mr. Denman
1245Antonio Bianchi stated, that he had no question to propose.1245Antonio BianchiMr. Denman
 objected to the question, and submitted that the question ought to be put, what their appearance was.Mr. Denman
—Were their clothes wet? At the top they seemed wet, but I cannot tell whether they were dry or not, for I did not touch them.Mr. Attorney General.
 stated, that he had no question to put.Mr. Denman
12471246Giovanni Lucini—How many feet is a braccio? A braccio is the same with which they measure cloth, linen, every thing. [Showing the length of his arm. The witness measured before him about three quarters of a yard.]12471246Giovanni LuciniDuke of Hamilton.
Carlo Rancatti—Have you frequently seen two persons in a padovanello? Yes, I have seen others.Carlo RancattiLord Ellenborough.
12521251Giuseppe RestelliDenman.1250Francesco CassinaWilliams.12491248 objected to the question, and submitted that the fact should be stated, but not the observations which the witness had made upon their conduct.12521251Giuseppe RestelliDenman.1250Francesco CassinaWilliams.12491248Mr. Denman
1253The Witness proceeded.Interpreter.Denman. objected to this answer standing upon the minutes, the princess not being there.1253The Witness proceeded.Interpreter.Denman.Mr. Denman
 objected to the question.The Solicitor General
12581257125612551254—Do you understand English? No.12581257125612551254Mr. Denman.
—You state that you have a pension from the Italian government; on what occasion had you that pension given you, and on what account? I have received it on account of having been seven or eight years in the service with prince Eugene, who was then viceroy of Italy.Earl of Liverpool.
Lords.1261Williams.Interpreter.12601259Giuseppe Galli—At the time you turned to the carriage in which the princess and Pergami were, to ask which road they wished you should take, did you get any directions from them upon the subject? Yes, we entered the town on the right hand, to go to take up count Cassio, to bring him to Caprila.Lords.1261Williams.Interpreter.12601259Giuseppe GalliEarl of Lauderdale.
—Was it in the month of December that they dined the first time, or the second time, at the inn? Between the first time and the second time that she dined at the inn, there was a difference of about three weeks.Earl of Lauderdale.
Lords.Parke.1265Wilde.1264Giuseppe GuggiariTindal.1263Giuseppe Dell' Orto1262 requested leave to draw the attention of the House to the matter which had been reserved for consideration on Friday last; namely, whether any alterations were necessary to be made in the minutes of that day relative to the questions which had been put upon the contents of certain letters at that time not regularly in proof, and previous to the questions afterwards put to the learned judges upon that day; and his lordship further acquainted the House, that he had been furnished with the following statement of the minutes relative to the above matter, as they now stood upon the minute book, viz.—that nothing appears in the minutes of Friday last, upon the subject of the letters examined to, previous to the objection afterwards taken, and the opinion given by the learned judges on that day, except what
Lords.Parke.1265Wilde.1264Giuseppe GuggiariTindal.1263Giuseppe Dell' Orto1262The Lord Chancellor
—How do you know that the princess and Pergami locked themselves into that room? We saw it with our own eyes, for we were there; and we saw them take themselves from the table, and go into the room, and shut themselves in.Earl Grosvenor.
—Were you in the pantry when you heard the lock turned? I was not.Earl of Lauderdale.
—You are understood to say, that when Pergami kissed the princess in the boat, there were several other boatmen along with you? There were.Earl of Belmore.
—Have you at any time had any conversation with any of the boatmen that were in the boat at the time you saw the circumstance you have just alluded to? No.Marquis of Lansdown.
—Was any body in the corridor with you when you heard the door of the room locked, as you have stated? There was either my brother or this John Capella.Duke of Hamilton.
1270 objected to the question.1270Mr. Dewnan
 (to the Interpreter.) Is there any other word in Italian but vergini and verginelli for maids and little maids? No, maids and virgins are expressed by the same word, vergini or verginelli.Mr. Brougham
12721271—You have said that the princess stated, that she was about to make a present to some of those girls; did you learn from her to which of those girls this present was intended to be made? No.12721271Mr. Attorney-General.
 objected to the question.Mr. Denman
 was heard in support of the question.The Attorney General
 was heard in reply.Mr. Denman
12771276Brougham.127512741273—Do you know whether that was the princess's bed-room into which that door opened? I cannot say it with certainty.12771276Brougham.127512741273Mr. Attorney General.
 objected to the question, as assuming that the witness had come over in the service of a Spanish family, and that the witness had not so stated.The Attorney General
—Is it true, or not true, that you came over to this country in the service of a Spanish family? It is not true.Mr. Brougham.
 objected to this question. The witness had not said that he used a double entendre, and his learned friend had no right to ask any question as to what passed in the witness's mind.The Attorney General
128012791278 said, his learned friend had
128012791278Mr. Brougham
 contended, that the limits of a cross-examination were much more extensive than an examination in chief. He had a right to put the question in the way he bad done. He had a right to ask the witness if he had represented so and so, without stating whether it was-in a written instrument or in a conversation. And further, the only time in which the opposite counsel could take an exception, was, if the witness had said it was in writing. He trusted their lordships would not adopt a course, the consequences of which would be, to prevent all the benefits of a cross-examination.Mr. Brougham
double entendre1281—In all the books of law that I have seen—in all the trials that I have read, and in all the practice that I have known, I never knew such an interposition as that of the attorney-general. To furnish a witness with an excuse for not answering a question, which only put his credit to the test in a legitimate way, if permitted, must prevent the detection of every conspiracy. I dare the attorney-general to state a single case, to quote a single instance, in which this has been permitted. It may screen a witness from the detection of his frauds and perjuries; it may, for the moment, prevent his being proved totally disqualified to give evidence. It can be of no other use, nor used for any other purpose, than to prevent the eliciting of truth. What! shall we not put a witness, whom we know to be infamous, to the severest examination, without declaring to him the means we have of proving him so? It is a little too much, to be told that a letter written on a former occasion, which directly contradicts the evidence he now gives, must be produced,
double entendre1281Mr. Denman.
 complained warmly of the term of "perjured witness" applied to the individual under examination.The Attorney General
 owned that it was improper, and begged leave to retract it.Mr. Denman
—It was used purely hypothetically.Mr. Brougham.
to resumed—The opposite counsel had no right to do cir-cuitously what they could not do directly —they admitted that their object was, to get the witness toThe Attorney General
—I admitted no such thing [Order, order!].Mr. Brougham.
—My lords, we have a right to correct any misrepresentation or misconception of our words. The privilege of explanation belongs to us [Order, order!].Mr. Brougham.
 with peculiar energy— My lords, I have a right to do so [cries of Order, order!].Mr. Brougham,
 with increased energy—"I have a right to do so" [renewed cries of Order, order! with much murmuring among the lords].Mr. Brougham,
 with considerable elevation of tone and vehemence of manner—"I have a right to do so."[Here the cries of Order, order! became still louder, and the counsel were desired to withdraw.]Mr. Brougham,
 said, that he had it in command from the House to state to the counsel, that they must not interrupt each other while speaking, but reserve any corrections or explanations they had to make till their opponent had finished.The Lord Chancellor
 resumed. He was as anxious, he declared, as any man to avoid misrepresentation; but he contended, that he was correct in his argument as to the tendency of the doctrine laid down by his learned friends; for that doctrine, if acted upon, might lead to the admission of illegal evidence; as any evidence founded upon a written document could not be received while the best evidence, namely, the written document itself, was forthcoming. His opinion, indeed, on this subject was sustained by the recent decision of the House itself; and if this decision were allowed to be evaded, their lordships might be again in the situation in which they were placed previous to that decision, by having illegal evidence inserted upon their minutes. The learned gentleman concluded with pressing his objection to a question so likely to lead to illegal evidence as that referred to, stating, that if the question were only, whether the witness had made any parole representations to the effect mentioned, it would be quite unobjectionable, while his friends would still be at liberty to adduce any written representation which they might have in their possession, in contradiction to the depositions of the witness.The Attorney General
1283"Whether, according to the established practice in the courts below, counsel cross-examining are entitled, if the counsel on the
1283 thought, that the former decision of the judges, as to the production of letters, did not amount to a decision of the propriety of putting the present question; and, with the leave of the House, he would put a question to the judges, which he should the rather do, as nothing was more important than that the House should be fully acquainted with the mode of its proceeding. He meant no unfounded compliment to Mr. Williams, but be must say that, the other day, he had extremely well argued this point: considering, however, the present as additional argument to what was then offered, he was most desirous to refer to the Judges this Question—
1283"Whether, according to the established practice in the courts below, counsel cross-examining are entitled, if the counsel on the
1283The Lord Chancellor
 thought it right to take this opportunity of making a motion, without giving any notice. It was desirable that that House and the country should be informed whether every due facility, in pecuniary supplies as well as in other respects, were afforded to the Queen for the preparation of her defence. The House had heard with satisfaction, from the noble head of the administration, that means had been taken, on the part of his majesty's government, to enable the Queen's advocates to collect any evidence which they might deem it desirable to adduce. But still, for the complete satisfaction of the House and the country, he felt it necessary to move for copies of all communications which had taken place between the Queen or her advisers and his majesty's government since the arrival of her Majesty in this country in June last; and also for an account of all sums of money advanced by government for the use of her Majesty within that period.Lord Kenyon
1284 complained of the irregularity of making a motion of this nature, without previous notice, which was agreeable to the practice of the House, or that kind of communication to himself or his colleagues, which was the usual courtesy of noble lords. But this motion was the more to be deprecated, as it referred to circumstances to give publicity to which would be contrary to common decency. Besides, no complaint was made, nor could he suppose that any dissatisfaction was felt, on the part of her majesty's advisers, as to the conduct of the king's government, in affording every facility necessary for her majesty's defence, in the means of collecting evidence, or in the advance of unlimited pecuniary supplies. Upon what ground, then, should such a motion be pressed? While on his own part and that of his colleagues, he could have no personal objection to let all that had passed on this subject go forth to the public, yet as there was no necessity whatever for such a motion, he hoped the House would not assent to it, without due consideration. If the noble lord meant
1284The Earl of Liverpool
 thought, that when the noble earl said that unlimited sums of money were advanced, it was the duty of their lordships to inquire from what source such sums were drawn, and who were to be accountable for them?Lord Holland
 said, that when he mentioned unlimited sums, he meant it to be understood that these sums were advanced under proper securities.The Earl of Liverpool
 expressed his surprise to hear any noble lord ascribe to him any disposition to propose a proceeding contrary to common decency, and he was the more surprised at such an imputation, considering the quarter from whence it came. With respect to the motion he had submitted, he had made a previous communication of his purpose to some of the noble earl's colleagues, and that he supposed a sufficient intimation to the government; and as to his bringing it forward without any previous notice to the House, that was owing to the circumstances of the case; for understanding, since he came into the House, that the evidence on the part of the advocates for the bill would close this day, he considered it of the greatest importance, that an immediate opportunity should be taken of satisfying their lordships and the public, that every means and facility were afforded to her majesty, that could be deemed necessary for the preparation of her defence. But, understanding that the case on the part of the prosecution would not close so soon as he was led to expect, and being quite unwilling to take any noble lord by surprise, he should, with leave of the House, withdraw his motion, and give notice of it for to-morrow.Lord Kenyon
12861285—My lords, the judges have conferred upon the question proposed to them by your lordships, "Whether, according to the established practice in the courts below, counsel cross-examining are in-titled, the counsel on the other side objecting to it, to ask a witness whether he has made representations of any particular nature, not specifying in the question whether his question refers to representations in writing or in words."12861285Lord Chief Justice Abbott.
 inquired, whether he was to understand, before he had asked, whether the witness made any representations, he was to ask whether it was in writing.Mr. Brougham
 had no objection to such a general question; but he had understood the learned judges to state, that the question, as submitted to them, could not be asked generally, but must be divided into two; that it must be first asked, whether any representation had been made in writing? and that, if an answer were given in the affirmative, then the inquiry must cease; but that, if the answer was in the negative, the witness might then be asked if he had made any parole representation? and, if he answered in the affirmative, that the particulars of such parole representation might be inquired into.The Earl of Liverpool
 confirmed the statement of his noble and learned friend. Such was invariably the practice when he attended in the courts below.The Lord Chancellor
 begged to know, whether lie might be at liberty to alter his question, and to put it, "Did you ever make any representation in writing concerning your real or supposed ingratitude towards so generous a mistress as her royal highness?"Mr. Brougham
 observed, that on all former occasions, when a question had been referred by their lordships to the judges, the opinion of the judges had been declared to the counsel at the bar as the opinion of the court. He was not aware why there should be any departure from that practice in the present instance. He did not want the question before their lordships to be settled by any kind of accommodation, he wanted it to be settled according to law. What he proposed, therefore, was, that the subject should be submitted to the reconsideration of the judges.The Earl of Donoughmore
 said, that if, from the imperfect and insufficient character of the question that had already been submitted to the judges, they had found it impossible to give to that question a direct answer, it might be advisable to amend the question before it was again referred to them.The Lord Chancellor
 stated, that he earnestly begged to withdraw the question, to save the necessity for farther discussion.Mr. Brougham
1290Mr, Attorney General.12891288—Did you ever say to any person that your conduct towards her royal highness was liable to the charge of ingratitude with respect to a generous benefactress? Never.1290Mr, Attorney General.12891288Mr. Brougham.
 objected to the question.Mr. Brougham
—Do you know whose seal is annexed to it? I do.Mr. Attorney General.
non constatnon constatnon constat—My learned friend has not yet brought home the paper to her royal highness. I object as much for the sake of regularity as any thing else to its being read. The paper was received from Schianivi, non constatnon constatnon constatMr. Brougham.
—You say that was given to you by Schiavini? I repeat it.Mr. Attorney General.
1291 objected to the question.1291Mr. Brougham
 submitted, that he was now in a condition to read the certificate, connecting this evidence with that given on a former day.The Attorney General
 objected to its being read, and stated the seal was not capable of being deciphered, and that there was no proof it was put by her royal highness.Mr. Brougham
 objected to the relation of any conversation between the witness and a third person, unless the rule was to be laid down, that because a particular person was at one time his (Mr. B.'s) banker, he must be therefore connected with all such persons said.Mr. Brougham
 meant not to argue on any hypothesis. He was aware that he had no right to put such a question in an examination in chief, but when in a cross-examination questions were asked relative to a conversation, he contended that he had a right to inquire as to the whole of that conversation.The Attorney General
1292 desired that the evidence relative to the conversation alluded to should be read.1292The Lord Chancellor
—Upon what occasion was it that you told Marrietti you were a witness against the Queen? On the occasion that he came to pay me a visit at my lodgings, about two months ago.Mr. Attorney General.
 insisted that the witness had said nothing in his cross-examination leading to such an explanation as he was about to give. It was not because A. B. had told Marrietti something, that it was to be made evidence against the Queen. Marrietti might have been dumb, for any thing that the witness had stated in his cross-examination.Mr. Brougham
 further enforced this objection, contending, that the answer formerly given by the witness required no further explanation, which formed the only reason for allowing more questions to be put on re-examination.Mr. Denman
1293 fully allowed that all questions on re-examination must arise out of something said on the cross-examination: for
1293The Attorney General
—Did any conversation pass between you and Marrietti, at the time to which you have referred, relative to your being a witness on the subject of the Queen? Marrietti came to me in the morning, and told me that Mr. Brougham, the brother of the counsel of her majesty, had called upon him, and as Marrietti had received some favours from those two brothers——Mr. Attorney General.
—See, my lords, to what your permission leads. [Order.] Do any of the judges refuse to allow me to speak? [Some confusion.]Mr. Brougham.
—What induced you to make the statement to Marrietti, that you were a witness against the Queen? Marrietti, when he came to pay me a visit, had already been told by somebody that I was a witness against the Queen, and he asked me whether it was true, what he had heard, that I was a witness against her majesty; I answered in the affirmative; he then told me—Mr. Attorney General.
 objected to this answer, submitting that the question put by Marrietti having been stated, and the witness having stated the answer which he gave to that question, no further account of the conversation which passed could be given in evidence.Mr. Denman
nisi prius1294 answered, that a counsel who in cross-examination put a question regarding a conversation, knew, that he
nisi prius1294The Attorney General
 enforced the inconveniences that must necessarily arise if a door were thus opened to conversations of any kind, and with any persons. The primary issue regarded the Queen, and there was a collateral issue on the credibility of the witness, but neither of them could be affected by the dialogue between the witness and Marrietti. Suppose the witness had conversed with De Mont respecting the Queen, would the House think of inquiring into all that had passed between them?Mr. Brougham
—Whatdid Marrietti tell you, upon your saying that you were a witness against the Queen?Mr. Attorney General.
 objected to the question.Mr. Brougham
—Did Marrietti, upon your saying you were a witness against the Queen, say any thing to you upon that subject.Mr. Attorney General.
 objected to the question,Mr. Brougham
 —Before you stated to Marrietti that you were a witness upon this subject, had he said any thing more than you have already stated? No.Mr. Attorney General.
 objected to the question. What Marrietti said could not touch the Queen, unless agency was first established.Mr. Brougham
 consulted with the judges, and after a short inverval, his lordship stated, that the judges wished to have that part of the short-hand writer's notes which included the cross-examination relative to this point.The Lord Chancellor
 observed, that the witnesses had been over and over again asked if any promises had been made to them? To such questions no objection had been made, until it was ascertained whether those promises had been made in writing or not. It appeared to him that the present question came within the principle on which the questions respecting supposed promises proceeded; and that a general question might be put, in the first instance, avoiding details.Earl Grey
 begged to inform the noble viscount that counsel were at full liberty to interpose if a witness stated what was not legal evidence. Counsel would ill discharge their duty as advocates, if they did not interpose, and their lordships their duty as judges if they did not allow that interposition.Earl Grey
 repeated that such was the constant and regular course.Earl Grey
 observed, that if counsel went to particulars, it must first be ascertained whether the representation had been parole or written. Might not a general question be put as to the fact of any representation whatever having been made, without going into any details, until it should be understood from the answer to that question how the matter stood?Earl Grey
 said, that the counsel had interrupted the witness in the very middle of an answer.Lord Exmouth
 said, that he had called to order, as he had a right to do, when the counsel had interrupted the witness.Lord Exmouth
1282 thought the counsel had no right to interrupt each other. When one had done, the other had a right to interfere and explain; but to allow interference and explanations in the middle of an argument would introduce the greatest disorder. Such interruption
1282Lord Redesdale
1287 remarked, that a counsel had a right to ask a witness whether any promise had been made to him. If the
1287Lord Erskine
1302—It certainly does appear, from the short-hand writer's notes, that the publication which has been complained of, is by no means consistent with the evidence which was given. My lords, with respect to representations and misrepresentations which are found in the public prints, I trust your lordships will excuse me if I take the liberty of saying, that if you throw aside your privileges with reference to such publications, you must insist on their being minutely correct. My lords, what it may be fit hereafter to do, with respect to some publica-
1302The Lord Chancellor.
—Mr. Justice Richardson
1306130513041303—1306130513041303Mr. Justice Best.
—Mr. Baron Garrow
—Mr. Justice Burrough
—Mr. Justice Holroyd
—Mr. Baron Graham
—Lord Chief Baron Richards
—Lord Chief Justice Dallas
1308—1308Lord Chief Justice Abbott
13101309—My lords; the question on which the difficulty arose yesterday was this, "Upon your saying you were a witness, did Marrietti make any observation upon the subject of your being a witness?" Her majesty's attorney-general objected to that question: the attorney-general was heard in support of the question, and then the counsel were directed to withdraw. My lords, several
13101309The Lord Chancellor.
1317—You are understood to have stated, that the princess was present during the balls mentioned by. you, as given by her royal highness at the Barona, how long was she usually present at those balls? As her royal highness had her own apartment contiguous to the ball-room where she had her own party, so she came from the room and came into the ball-room, where she staid three or four minutes, and returned into her own room.1317Viscount Falmouth.
1318—Do you speak and understand the French language? I do.1318Earl of Lauderdale.
—At the time you withdrew the curtain did her royal highness sit on the right or left of Pergami? Her royal highness was sitting on the right hand of Pergami.Earl of Balcarras.
—When you opened the curtains did you ask for orders? No, because they were asleep.Earl of Rosslyn.
1319***—Did you ask to see the princess after Schiavini gave you your discharge? I asked to see the princess after I had received my certificate, the evening before I went away.1319***Lord Calthorpe.
Robert Hare acquainted the counsel on both sides, that a witness, whose attendance was required on the part of the Queen, was abroad, and indisposed, and suggested, for the consideration of the counel, whether they would consent that the witness should be examined by commission.Robert HareThe lard-Chancellor
1320—Have you ever seen the King write? Never.1320Mr. Solicitor General.
—Did his majesty, when prince of Wales, keep money at your house? He did.Mr. Brougham.
 proposed to give in evidence the certificate produced by Majoochi, referring to the evidence in pages 361 and 362; and it appearing on the further evidence that Schiavini (in whose hand-writing it was proved to be) was marshal of the palace, and that he had in several instances given certificates to the servants,The Attorney General
 objected to the same being given in evidence.Mr. Brougham
1321 then stated to the House, that certain persons resident at Lugano, who were intended to be produced as witnesses, had set out in order
1321The Attorney General
1323instanter1322, in resisting the application, said, that the only analogy to guide the House was to be found in the proceedings of courts below: there, such a motion as that the remainder of a trial should be postponed when it had been half gone through, because a material witness was absent, had never yet been heard of. Motions of the kind were invariably made before the trial commenced, and then the party must swear to the importance of the testimony, to his inability to procure the attendance of the witness, and his expectation that in a short time he might be procured, was generally added in the affidavit. As, however, by the forms of the House, affidavits could not be admitted, he presumed that it would be required those points should be established at the bar. He was ready' to assume therefore that the attorney-general was prepared to do so, and he should oppose the present application on very obvious grounds. The prosecution had been commenced (and he only used the word prosecution for shortness, as, for aught he knew, this was nothing more than an amicable suit, and most of all unlike a prosecution), and the prosecutor had had full time to prepare himself: for months and years he had known
1323instanter1322Mr. Brougham
, before he followed on the same side, wished to know at what time these supposed witnesses were at Beauvais?Mr. Denman
 replied, on the 27th of July.The Attorney General
1324—On the 27th of July these witnesses rerurned from Beauvais, because they had heard rumours of what had passed at Dover. He requested their lordships to ask themselves, whether if any of the witnesses for the defence had been alarmed by reports that the Alien bill would be put in force against them, or that the English ambassadors at foreign courts—active agents against the Queen—were using their utmost efforts to bring them into trouble, the)' would think it a sufficient ground for delaying the progress of the defence; more especially when it had been commenced at the time chosen by the counsel for her majesty, and when, therefore, they came plighted to pursue it to a conclusion. Yet such, in truth, was the request on the other side regarding witnesses who were to be here four or five days hence, and who might have been here four or five days ago, if ordinary diligence had been used by the agent who had them in his charge. Where was this to stop? Was the attorney-general to be permitted thus to supply defects in every instance where he had completely failed in establishing the facts he had
1324Mr. Denman.
procès verbal1325 commenced his reply by complaining of the unfair opportunities taken by the other side of deviating from the real question for the sake of making declamatory addresses, and offering insinuations against the witnesses already produced. He had also some reason to complain of the manner in which the present application had been treated. It had been said, that the object was to mend and patch up the case of the supporters of the bill; but, after having
procès verbal1325The Attorney General
1326 thought, that the House would find infinite difficulty in arriving at a decision; but, in his opinion, the question would not be fairly raised until proof had been given at the bar of the cause of the detention of the witnesses, their materiality, and other circumstances of alike nature. It would be very dangerous for the House to proceed to a decision upon any case mere-
1326The Lord-Chancellor
 did not rise to offer any opinion, but merely to state a few points for the attention of the House. He admitted that the special grounds ought to be established at the bar, and he took it to be quite clear, in the first place, that, until the case of the Attorney-General was closed, it was competent to him to bring forward any evidence with which he might be furnished. If this application had never been made, the Attorney-General would have been entitled to call on the other side to finish their cross-examinations before he concluded his case. If the Queen's counsel replied that they had not the means of doing so without an adjournment, then the case of the supporters of the bill would be still open, and, without any request of this kind, they might call and examine the Luganian witnesses. If, on the other hand, the Queen's counsel required no time for cross-examination, then, of course, it would remain for the other side to submit to the House what course it would be proper to adopt. The facts to be proved by these new witnesses had been opened to the House by the Attorney-General.The Earl of Liverpool
 made the motion of which he had given notice yesterday. He thought that, considering the agitated state of the public mind, the fullest explanation ought to be given on this most important topic. He then moved for "Copies of all Communications which have taken place between his Majesty's government, and her Majesty's legal advisers, touching pecuniary supplies; together with an Account of all Sums of Money furnished from the Treasury for her Majesty's use, since her arrival in June last."Lord Kenyon
double entendre disliked the motion, because it only went to disclose the expenses which had been incurred on one side. He thought it right that the whole transaction should be known to the House in all its particulars. It was evident, from the testimony of several of the witnesses at the bar that large sums of money had been paid or promised on this occasion. It was, important that the House should know on what authority those sums had been promised or paid, and from what funds they had been taken, or were yet to be drawn. It would be satisfactory also to know, if any estimate had been made before hand. He alluded to the case of Warren Hastings, wherein such an estimate had been given, though the eventual expense far exceeded it. No doubt the money spent and to be expended on the present occasion, would be a sum of great magnitude and it would be well for their lordships to be informed of it. The object of the motion proposed was chiefly to secure the furnishing of proper means to the Queen for her defence. No question but that in appearance, her majesty would be most amply supplied; but would those means be all furnished? Government would, perhaps, give directions to ministers and ambassadors on the continent to give all facilities to the Queen's agents, and advance the necessary means. But upon application to those ministers, it might turn out that there was a double entendreLord King
1296 had no difficulty in agreeing to the motion of the noble
1296The Earl of Liverpool
 then observed, that as an account of the pecuniary advances to the queen, with a view to enable her majesty to prepare for her defence, was to be laid before the House, he thought it also desirable that the House should be informed of all the expenses which had been incurred from the outset of this unfortunate business. He should therefore move for "An Account of all Sums of Money expended in the Inquiry relative to her Majesty the Queen since the time of her leaving England, in 1814."The Earl of Darnley
, in the fullest and most explicit manner, said, he would do so when the business was concluded, adding, that it would be inexpedient to make such a communication at present.The Earl of Liverpool
1297 recapitulated what had taken place yesterday at the close of the proceedings, and the question which had been raised on the examination then in progress. He had considered the subject, and would move, that the following Questions be proposed to the learned Judges:1297The Lord Chancellor
1299 said:—Perhaps your lordships will allow me to perform a very painful duty; but one I owe to the profession, and I may say to the court. My lords, I am unwilling at all times to complain of any use or even any abuse, if it is kept within ordinary limits, of the press; but as a minister of this court, in which I have the honour to practise, I think there are some bounds which ought to be prescribed, and which I humbly submit to your lordships, for the purpose, not of punishment, but of warning and hint for the future; and I am sure there will be on all sides of the bar a most ample disposition to concur in the propriety of this proceeding. My lords, in giving the evidence which passed yesterday, one of the morning papers of this day has made the following most gross, and I will add, flagitious mis-statement—flagitious, because no man who heard it could think that any thing like what was said, is what was here given, and the motive and purpose of altering it is equally apparent. The question asked was—"Did any conversation take place between the witness and Marrielti, relative to his being a witness against the Queen?"—The pretended answer—"When he told Marrietti that he was going as a witness against the princess, Marrietti told him that Mr. Brougham, brother to her royal highness's counsel, had said he would bestow favours on those who would not go, "charging that honourable relation of mine with tampering with witnesses, and imputing an offence to him which must, my lords, if you have privileges, suspend this inquiry, until you shall have called that person to the bar, or at least his agent Mr. Marrietti, and have dealt with him, as a person 'deserves to be dealt with who dares to tamper with the witnesses before your lordships bar. My lords, there was nothing like this said; it was only said, that that person had been with Mr. Marrietti that morning, and had desired him to go—I do not believe even that was said—but that he had been with the witness, and as he, Mr. Marrietti considered himself to be under some obligations to me, then he was going to say something else, obviously that he then came to ask what Sacchi had to say upon the subject. I put it to any man who hears this read, whether a more gross, more scandalous, or more flagitious misstatement ever was made of a proceeding in
1299Mr. Brougham
1300 said, that his learned friend had gone much further than he was warranted; for his observations went to charge him with having held some communication relative to Marrietti with his majcsty's government. He never heard, however, of the facts till they came
1300The Attorney General
 felt it material that he should state how the matter of fact stood. It was perfectly true, that the learned counsel did, with great courtesy, about three evenings ago, send him such letter and representation; and he (the earl of Liverpool) took the liberty of stating to the learned counsel immediately, that there was not the smallest foundation whatever for what had been said about any liability of M. Marrietti's being sent out of England; and informing him that he might assure M. Marrietti, the son, that he had full protection of the government, for any thing which he might do in this case. He had felt it his duty to communicate the point to another person in office, in order to ascertain the correctness or otherwise of the fact; and to M. Marrietti, the father, the proceeding he had taken, in order that he might be aware of the circumstances in which he was placed, if any such thing (which he did not believe) had been really said. But he thought it also his duty now to state, that he never had any communication, personal or direct, with the attorney-general on the subject; if he had any knowledge of the fact, it must have been through other channels.The Earl of Liverpool
1301 said, that it having been stated, that the lords of the Admiralty had sent for two officers of the navy, in order to put questions to them, he should wish to state what was the real case, and with what view any proceeding of the kind had taken place. It did so happen, that with a view of bringing forward evidence, as to the residence of persons in different parts of the world, the professional gentlemen retained in support of this bill, had from time to time made applications to the Admiralty, to know where certain individuals
1301Lord Melville
1312 here submitted to their lordships whether the question could be put consistently with the decision that their lordships had already arrived at. If this question was not evidence, for the sake of regularity and the rules of evidence, let it be rejected. He felt how a counsel was exposed to the imputation of wishing to conceal a truth—that a witness might disclose in his answer, when
1312Mr. Brougham
 said, he had made the objection after the first three words used by the witness. The remainder of his answer showed how necessary it was, that he should have interposed at that moment, for it disclosed not only that the witness was giving in evidence what Mr. Powell told him, but also what lord Liverpool wrote to Mr. Powell.Mr. Brougham
 said,. "that Mr. Brougham was right to take his objection whenever it best suited him, but that their lordships could not shut out the answer given by the witness.The Lord Chancellor
—You have described yourself as having been an officer in the army of Italy, do you receive any half-pay in consequence of having served in the army? I have no pay.Earl Grosvenor.
1313 begged leave to submit, through the House, how far the custom and usage of servants could be received in evidence upon this occasion.1313The Attorney General
—You have stated in your cross-examination that you were not offered any money to induce you to come here to give your evidence; have you been offered any money by any person, or has any body endeavoured to persuade you not to give your evidence here since you arrived in England? No one has ever made me a promise of money, and no one has ever endeavoured to dissuade me from coming, because I never have communicated this thing to any body.Lord Kingston.
1314—How long have you been acquainted with Marrietti? Since my arrival in London.1314Marquis of Buckingham.
 informed Mr. Brougham, that if there was any other question which he wished to put as to this interview, he would willingly put it.The Marquis of Buckingham
 said, there was not. He had no reason to be dissatisfied with the answers already obtained, though others might be.Mr. Brougham
 proposed postponing the further debate until to-morrow.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that the attorney-general ought first to be asked whether he was prepared with evidence to support his application.The Earl of Carnarvon
—Mr. Attorney-General, do you propose, and are you prepared, to enter into any proof of the circumstances on which you found this application?Lord Chancellor.
—My lords, I think I shall be able to lay before the House such proof as would be received in a court of justice.Mr. Attorney General.
—We submit to your lordships that as my learned friend is not even ready to say that he can prove this—Mr. Brougham.
—The question was put by the House to the attorney-general, and no other person is authorized to interpose. Are you now prepared to enter into any proof of the circumstances on which you found this application?Lord Chancellor.
procès verbal—I will state to your lordships what documents I have, and what I shall be able to prove before your lordships. I hold in my hand the original procès verbalMr. Attorney-General.
1329—Your lordships are aware, that in an application to a court of justice to put off a trial, on account of circumstances that have come to the knowledge of the party making that application, the evidence by which that application is supported, is of a very different character and description from that which it is necessary to introduce into a court of justice in the conduct of the cause. All that is necessary on the occasions to which I refer is, in the first instance that a party shall make an affidavit, that he believes the witnesses to be material, and that he is informed and believes that these witnesses will arrive at the time indicated in the affidavit. He is also to explain, not by the positive oath of an eye-witness, but from the information and belief of the party making the affidavit, that such and such facts have occurred which have had the effect of preventing the arrival of the witnesses; and I undertake to say, that if an affidavit were transmitted to this country, sworn before a notary in a foreign country, stating that such and such circumstances had occurred preventing the arrival of a
1329Mr. Solicitor General.
—My lords; I have no thing to trouble your lordships with, except to state—Mr. Brougham.
—The question the House wish to put is, whether you would be prepared to go on with the cross-examination which is reserved to you, if they closed their case now?Lord Chancellor.
1330—Your lordships will see, that the resolution I have come to, in conjunction with my learned colleagues, must be hypothetical—it must always be on a consideration of what case may be made out; and if these witnesses are be-
1330Mr. Brougham.
1316tumulto1315—Had you ever gone by the name of Milam before you came to England? I took this name in Paris.1316tumulto1315Earl Grey.
 observed, that he should vote for the motion, but if the noble earl opposite would give a pledge, that at a future period he would lay before the House the whole of the expenses incurred in this business, including that of the Milan commission from its first establishment, he would advise his noble friend to withdraw his motion.The Earl of Essex
tumultoGiuseppe Sacchi1311 acknowledged that he felt himself in an awkward situation, differing, as he did, from the opinion of the majority [of the judges. The principle on which it appeared to him that their lordships ought to act was clearly laid down in the books as well as in practice. That principle was, that witnesses should state the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. In the present instance, it was manifest, that they had not the whole truth before them until an answer was given to the disputed question. The witness himself was proceeding to state something further, when, he was stopped. It had been admitted, that if the witness had held a conversation with one of the parties, the whole of the con-
tumultoGiuseppe Sacchi1311Lord Redesdale
 said, he was satisfied the counsel meant no insinuation as to the fact which had been so satisfactorily explained. The learned counsel had, with a very natural feeling, consented to withdraw his objection to the question, which had been put on account of the insinuation made against himself. He (lord E.) however, could not consent that the rules of evidence should be departed from on account of that insinuation.Lord Erskine
1327 felt it his duty to oppose, in the first instance, such an outrage upon public justice, as that of interposing a delay in the middle of a case, for the purpose of producing fresh witnesses. No such instance had ever been heard of in any court of justice. Indeed, so decidedly averse were the courts to interpose delays in the course of justice, that in the instance of the assassination of
1327Lord Erskine
 said, he had no difficulty in concurring with the recommendation of the noble and learned lord as to the propriety of adopting the opinion stated by the majority of the judges, and rejecting the dissenting opinion of one of them. They had fallen into the present difficulty by using a term which could not be found in the notes of the short-hand writer, the witness having never used the word "conversation;" and he would ask' how it was possible that any thing which Marrietti might have said afterwards could affect the motive by which the witness had been previously influenced.Lord Erskine
Huntley.—What was the cause of your being discharged from the service of her royal highness?—It was in consequence of a difference which I had with the confectioner.Huntley.Earl of Darlington.
 thought, that the proper course of proceeding, when any noble peer wished to interpose, was, first to move that the counsel withdraw. This, he thought, should have been done, if it was wished to ascertain whether the witness meant that people were going to see the king, or the king's funeral.The Marquis of Lansdown
—My lords; I think it right that I should state to your lordships, that within the last half hour I have received dispatches from Milan, and from which I find that longer delay than I had anticipated yesterday must take place before the arrival of the witnesses to whom I alluded. I think I ought, in justice to myself as well as to your lordships, to state that fact; and under those circumstances to withdraw the application which I made yesterday.Mr. Attorney General
—My lords; it cannot but give your lordships pleasure, that this application should be withdrawn. The House, however, will permit me to say, that I think the attorney-general having in a general way stated in the opening of his case, the transactions to which that application alluded, he would not have done his duty to this House, under the state of the information which he had yesterday, if he had not submitted that application to your lordships consideration.Lord Chancellor.
13331332Tcodoro Majoochi1331—Then, my lords, considering my learned friend as saying, that this is his case, unless something which I shall do in the way of deferring my further cross-examination should induce him to call other witnesses—taking that to be
13331332Tcodoro Majoochi1331Mr. Brougham.
 complained of this interference. He was not to be interrupted in this way. Their lordships must be aware that he was obliged to pay the greatest attention to the course of the cross-examination, and yet a noble lord thought fit to object to a term he had used, and thus prevent him from proceeding. He desired to know whether their lordships allowed him to put the question.Mr. Brougham
134213411340 said, he would take that opportunity, before the summing up of the counsel, to call the attention of the noble earl opposite, and of the House, to a letter which had that morning appeared in all the public journals. The letter was dated "Milan, Aug. 21, 1820," and purported to be from M. Marrietti to his son. One of the learned counsel at the bar had commented yesterday upon the extraordinary contents of that letter, and had also mentioned the communication which he had upon it with the noble earl opposite. He (the marquis) had not, however, seen this letter until he read it in one of the morning papers. Now that it had gone before the public, and would, no doubt, be copied
134213411340The Marquis of Lansdown
1343 said, he had not the smallest hesitation in giving the noble marquis the explanation he desired, as far as it was in his power at the present moment to give it; and, so far from being surprised at the question, he felt thoroughly obliged to the noble marquis for putting it, and thereby enabling him to give the explanation which he was now about to offer. He begged in the first place to assure the noble lord, in the fullest and most positive manner, that he was wholly and utterly ignorant of there being such a person in this country as the younger Marrietti. He certainly did know that there was a respectable banker of that name in Milan; but he was utterly ignorant of there being any relative of his here, and his noble friend (lord Sidmouth) was just as ignorant as he was of that circumstance; so that it was clearly impossible for either of them to have had the most remote notion of applying the provisions of the Alien hill against a person, of whose residence here they were utterly ignorant. He could also assure the House, that they were as ignorant of even the sound of the name of the other person alluded to in the letter as any noble lord who now for the first time heard it. After clearing away by this explanation, which showed the utter impossibility of either his own or his noble colleague's intention to apply the Alien bill to M. Marrietti, of whose existence they were wholly ignorant, he would proceed to answer the more immediate question of the noble marquis. Before he did this, however, he begged to state, that at the moment when Mr. Brougham had apprised him of this letter, he authorised him to take the first and earliest opportunity of apprising the younger Marrietti, that he might live here with perfect impunity, as long as he liked, from the operation of the Alien act; that he might at once remove from his mind any impression of apprehension from the operation of that law. With respect to what happened at Milan, it was quite clear he was in no condition at the present moment to give a full explanation; for he could have no knowledge of what the occurrence had been which gave rise to this letter. As to colonel Brown, he had no
1343The Earl of Liverpool
 expressed himself satisfied with the explanation given.The Marquis of Lansdown
1344 said, he could not help hoping that in the course of the investigation the conduct of colonel Brown would
1344Lord Holland
—Am I to understand that the Queen's attorney-general does not contemplate any further cross-examination at any time?The Attorney General.
—At no time.Mr. Brougham.
138313821381138013791378137713761375je paime mieux comme ga.1374the bill,137313721371137013691368"mon ami,""mon cceur,"136713661365136413631362136113601359135813571356non mi recordos1355nan mi ricordos"1354135313521351versus13501349134813471346—138313821381138013791378137713761375je paime mieux comme ga.1374the bill,137313721371137013691368"mon ami,""mon cceur,"136713661365136413631362136113601359135813571356non mi recordos1355nan mi ricordos"1354135313521351versus13501349134813471346Mr. Solicitor General
 rose to propose that the counsellor her majesty should be asked, whether it was now their intention to open the case for the defence, or to ask the delay which had been agreed to.The Earl of Lauderdale
1384 said, that in this stage of the proceedings he conceived it was not improper to remind a noble earl (Liverpool) of the observations he had made on a former occasion, respecting one of the provisions of this Bill, and
1384The Earl of Lonsdale
1385 rose to address their lordships in consequence of the observations of the noble earl. Before he spoke to that subject, in order that no unguarded expression of his might convey an idea which he did not intend, he begged to say that it was his decided feeling, and he trusted the feeling of every noble lord who heard him, that no opinion whatever should be formed of the evidence, until the whole defence should be before them. Their minds ought to be kept free from impression respecting it, if possible they ought only to listen, to weigh, and to consider; their minds ought to be kept entirely free upon the evidence before them until the defence should be closed. Having stated thus much, he would say, in reference to what had been said by the noble earl, that it was utterly impossible that any alteration should be made in the bill, until the whole case was closed, until the question of the second reading was disposed of, and the bill should be committed. What he had stated, on the discussion of the motion of a noble baron, was stated in consequence of imputations thrown out respecting the provision alluded to in the bill, and insinuations made, not only in that House, but elsewhere, that Divorce was the object of the bill. He had disclaimed that that had been the object of the bill; he had then stated the object of the bill to be public justice; he had then stated the object of the bill to be to uphold the honour of the country, and not to relieve the illustrious individual at the head of the state. He had then stated, that it might be made a separate proposi-
1385The Earl of Liverpool
1336Non constat, appealed to their lordships. Was it meant to be said that he could not, upon cross-examination, ask this question? Was it meant to be contended that it was an irregular question? 1336Non constat,Mr. Brougham
—Do you mean to represent that you never had any conversation with Mr. Powell on the subject of the Queen? On what do you mean; I do not understand what you say.Mr. Brougham.
1338Attorney General,1337 stated, that he proposed to
1338Attorney General,1337Mr. Brougham
—Did you go alone to Vienna, or in company with any other person? Alone, alone, alone.Earl of Rosebery.
 in explanation, denied that he had made any proposal to limit the proceedings of counsel.The Earl of Lonsdale,
 considered the question, though put before the counsel were called in, as not intended to affect their mode of proceeding.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he had great satisfaction in agreeing with his noble friend. He had not risen, however, merely to express his satisfaction, but his astonishment, at the suggestion of the noble lord on the other side. He meant no disrespect; he believed the noble lord bad consulted with no one upon the subject; but this was a most momentous consideration, and he would express freely what he thought in every stage of it. The question now was, the proof of the preamble to the bill; that was, had the illustrious person done what was deserving of a bill of Pains and Penalties, be their amount great or small? Whether the whole or a part of the bill should be passed was not the question at present. They had only one half of the evidence before them. If the illustrious person should not remain Queen—(they had been told a great deal of the public feeling)—what would be the public feeling, if one degraded from the rank of Queen should remain the King's wife? He desired, as a juror, to be enabled to form his opinion on the whole of the issue.The Earl of Donoughmore
—Mr. Brougham, I apprehend it to be the wish of the House to ask you how you propose to proceed? Whether you propose to proceed to state the defence now, or to take the delay agreed to be allowed?Lord Chancellor.
 said, that surrounded as he was with peculiar and rising difficulties, and threatened to be met with a new bill—[Cries of "Order, order!"].Mr. Brougham
—A question has been put to you by the House, and their lordships require an answer.The Lord Chancellor.
—My lords, I understood that counsel were now at the bar.Mr. Brougham.
—Counsel were ordered to withdraw, Mr. Brougham, and if they cannot appreciate that courtesy with which the House is accustomed to treat them, by not requiring that they should leave the House, the regulation must, for the future, be enforced. You are asked a question, and you are to confine yourself to the answering that question.The Lord Chancellor.
1388—My lords, I am called upon to give an answer to a very serious and momentous question, and it was quite
1388Mr. Brougham.
—You should appeal to the justice of the House, and not to its compassion. The House is not accustomed to be addressed in this way.The Lord Chancellor.
—Then I shall put myself on my right. I thought it most respectful to appeal to your compassion, and for no other purpose did I use the expression: however, as you will have the less respectful language, I must adopt it. I ask from you justice then, that as I have had no means of preparation, while my opponents have had opportunities for months before, you will allow me till 12 o'clock to-morrow, which is all the favour I ask.Mr. Brougham.
—The House wish to know if you will commence your case to-morrow, with a view to go through it, or if you intend to apply for delay?The Lord Chancellor.
instanter1389—My lords, if I may be permitted to say so, I feel myself in the situation of a counsel, and have a right to change my plan as circumstances may suggest. I appeal to such of your lordships as know any thing of Nisi Prius cases, whether it be not customary for I counsel to wait the effect of their defence, before they determine whether they will produce evidence or not. No counsel before was ever so placed on the rack. Permission has always been given the counsel to answer the case made on the other side; and if he finds that he has not made the impression intended, he then asks leave to call evidence. I have not received—I do not say the commands—but the permission of her majesty to ask for any delay at all. Standing in the peculiar situation in which her majesty now stands, having so horrible a prospect before her, and finding it attempted to prove charges of such a character, by evidence of such a description as this, she must feel extremely unwilling to let the case remain so, with all the weight of the Opening, and all the observation of my learned friend who last addressed you. In justice only, if not in compassion, your lordships must see that it is impossible to postpone the right of defence in such circumstances for two or three months. There is only one other alternative. If, indeed, my mouth is to be stopped—if I am not allowed to
instanter1389Mr. Brougham.
 hoped that he had not been guilty of the injustice, as well as presumptuousness, of giving from the chair any hint of what might be the decision of the House. He meant simply to ask, what the counsel for the Queen proposed; and, when that was known, it would remain for their lordships to determine. He did not mean to call upon the counsel at this moment to make their election, unless they preferred it; they might defer their answer until to-morrow morning.The Lord Chancellor
 before he moved the adjournment, wished the counsel to be informed, that the question would be put to them to-morrow morning at 12 o'clock.The Earl of Liverpool,
1390 begged to be allowed to state, that he had a most anxious duty to discharge: all that he and his friends had hitherto done was mere trifling, mere nibbling at the corners of the case, compared with what he had yet to go through.—Suppose (he continued) it should be your lordships pleasure, at twelve to-morrow, that I should proceed—gracious God! am I to go on at a moment's warning? Am I, in a case like this, not to have a single hour for reflection and consulta-
1390Mr. Brougham
 said, that House did not require the counsel for the Queen to proceed to-morrow, but to state how they wished to proceed; they need not begin until they were fully prepared.The Lord Chancellor
 replied, for the former.The Lord Chancellor
 thought, that tomorrow the question ought to be put, Whether the application of the counsel of the Queen continued the same as it had been to-day? If, however, it turned out to be that he wished to go through his case, or that he wished for an adjournment to a future period, he was of opinion that neither request ought, in justice, to be refused. If, on the other hand, a middle course were suggested, which would leave the counsel at liberty either to call his witnesses immediately, or to delay them until a future occasion, that would be a point requiring great deliberation.The Earl of Liverpool
 did not conceive that the learned counsel had made the latter proposition in the form of an application. He had only said that until the end of his speech he ought not to be called upon to make his option.The Earl of Rosslyn
1391 entreated the House not to adjourn for one day unnecessarily, as, if it was now decided that he should proceed, he could be just as well prepared to-morrow, as on Saturday. He could not, however, be prepared to-morrow,
1391Mr. Brougham
 observed, that it followed, as a consequence, that if counsel could be ready by twelve to-morrow, they could be prepared by Saturday. The House ought to act according to its own notions of what was right, and of what would keep it right. The point stated by the noble earl (Grey) he, for one, considered of infinite importance, and the House ought to allow itself an opportunity for maturely considering it. Certain he was, that the true way for the House to maintain its high character, as a judicial tribunal, was, to act with caution and circumspection in its decisions. He moved that counsel be called in at twelve o'clock to-morrow.The Lord Chancellor
verbis,1392in totideminstanter, rose, for the purpose of preventing any misapprehension on the part of the counsel, who had evidently shown that they had laboured under a mistake; or of the public, which might, by the same cause, be led to a wrong conclusion. The counsel had spoken as if something was endeavoured to be forced upon them by the House as a hardship; but nothing could be more unjust than such a supposition, and it ought not to go forth to the world. Nothing had been said from the woolsack which could be construed into a wish that the counsel should arrive at an immediate determination: on the contrary, what had been stated amounted to this—that, on account of the peculiar circumstances of the case, peculiar indulgence ought to be shown; and all the House wished to know was, when the counsel proposed to proceed. Not a word had been uttered about commencing verbis,1392in totideminstanter,The Earl of Dononghmore
 remarked, that the question so stated had many bearings, was of infinite importance, and could not be properly discussed in the time yet remaining for the business of the day. It was not to be understood that counsel would be obliged to proceed to-morrow, at twelve; for, if further delay was necessary, God forbid it should not be granted!The Lord Chancellor
 wished to understand whether the House adjourned for the purpose of receiving the answer of the Queen s counsel to the question put to them, or for the purpose of hearing to-morrow the statement of the case on the part of her majesty.Earl Grey
 said, that the application of the counsel was to know whether he would be permitted to make his statement, reserving to himself the right of not determining, until the end of it, whether he should apply for further time to produce his witnesses.Earl Grey
1387 said, he was sorry if he had misrepresented the noble lord, but he thought that if ever he had heard any thing plainly, the distinction was taken between
1387Earl Grey
 said, that he understood the noble earl to suggest that the counsel should confine themselves to the clauses inflicting Pain and Penalty, to the exclusion of the clause of Divorce.Earl Grey
—How could you keep that account, when, as you have stated, you can neither read nor write? The book of the post teaches all, shows all expenses.Earl Grey.
1386 agreed with what the noble earl had stated respecting the propriety of preserving their judgments unbiassed till they could come to a full decision, when the whole case should be closed. When he therefore stated any thing hypothetically, he hoped he would hot be understood as prejudging on the one side or the other. A more unseasonable proposition than that suggested by the noble lord, who first spoke, he had never heard. No answer that the noble earl (Liverpool) could have given could have had the effect of warranting such a proposition. It seemed to him to be a proposition to restrain the counsel at the bar within certain limits in their defence. The clause alluded to in the Bill could be considered only when the whole case was closed, and the Bill came under consideration in a committee. Now, it was impossible that any alteration whatever could be proposed or made. The defence was, therefore, to be directed against the whole of the bill, as it stood at present. It was not only a bill of Pains and Penalties, but a bill of Divorce. That was the state of the bill now before their lordships; and to that extent it was the duty of the counsel to direct the evidence for the defence. He agreed with the explanation of the noble lord; for it was only the same statement, somewhat more at length, which he had given on the former occasion referred to; and he (earl Grey) had at the time acquitted him of any such object as that alluded to. He was very glad to hear from the noble earl now what he had-been persuaded of at first—that personal relief was not the object
1386Earl Grey
 moved, that the counsel do withdraw; which being ordered, his lordship said he was not the noble peer who had said, that the witness had not used the word "funeral," though the learned counsel directed his looks to him. He would maintain, however, that he or any other peer had a right to interpose to correct a question which I might appear improper, without any counsel checking them or staring them in the face. He came there to sit as judge, and to vote on his honour and his oath, and was not to be lectured by any counsel whatever.Lord Exmouth
13351334 observed, that in his opinion, noble peers had been several times insulted by the remarks of counsel in the course of the present proceedings.13351334Lord Redesdale
 thought it the best course that counsel should attend to-morrow morning, when the question of to-day might be repeated to them. He was sure that they might rely with confidence on the House, and that no such injustice would be done, as to compel them to proceed without all due preparation. They had most anxious and onerous duties cast upon them, and every indulgence ought to be extended to them.Lord Erskine
98 said, that the question on which their lordships were now called upon to decide was precisely this—whether, if an adjournment were necessary, that adjournment should take place at the time the case for the bill had closed; or whether the counsel against the bill should be permitted to make his opening speech, and then to have an adjournment before the production of his evidence. Now, he was prepared to contend, that if the House adjourned at all, the present was the proper time when that adjournment ought to take place [Hear, hear!]. They could take no other course respecting an adjournment without committing great injustice. He was perfectly ready to concur in opinion with his noble and learned friend, that an adjournment at any time was a great evil; but they had in this case a choice of evils, and they were bound to select the lesser of the two. It was true that, if they adjourned now for the space of two months, both the evidence and the speech of the solicitor-general would go forth to the world during such a recess; but it was a mistake to say it went forth unaccompanied by cross-examination; for there had been cross-examination, and the adjournment afforded
98The Earl of Lauderdale
121110 said, he had never, in the course of a professional life, felt more strongly inclined to avoid any duty, than that which he now was called upon to execute. He begged to be understood as by no means opposing the indulgence in the first instance suggested—the giving time to counsel, if time they required, for the preparation of their defence; but, painful as it was for the House to resolve upon a course, the effect of their resolution would not be confined either to the present case or to the present day; they must act upon some principle on which they could fairly leave the future and the general administration of justice. Most unjustifiably he should disguise his opinion if he said, that evil did not attend the view which he had taken of the case. True, every individual who sat in that House would stand convicted of violating his duty, if he suffered himself to infer any thing even approaching to guilt from the evidence which had been laid before him. It was the duty of the House to remember, that every syllable of it was capable of being disproved, and to guide its conduct by that recollection; but, at the same time, it would be most unjust to represent, it was impossible even to hope, that either the House or the public could, after what they had heard, go away without some prejudice unfavourable to the Queen. Their lordships, then, had but a
121110The Lord Chancellor
—In obedience to the commands of the House, I have now to ask you of Counsel to the Queen, in what manner you propose to proceed in the Defence?The Lord Chancellor.
.—My lords; it is our wish to proceed forthwith.Mr. Brougham (Attorney-General of the Queen)
—Proceeding forthwith, do you mean that it is your wish to proceed in opening the Case, and then following it immediately by Evidence, or to open the Case, and then to pray time to produce the Evidence? I understand it to be my duty to ask you that question.The Lord Chancellor.
2—Undoubtedly, my lords, we wish to give every information to the House, consistently with our duty to our
2Mr. Brougham.
 observed, that it was obvious, after the answer just given by her majesty's attorney-general, that it was necessary be should have a longer time allowed to bring over his witnesses. He thought, however, the answer given by the counsel to the question put by the noble and learned lord on the woolsack, was by no means as explicit as it ought to be; and he therefore trusted that the counsel would be called upon to give a more definite answer.The Earl of Lauderdale
242322ex parte212019ex parte;18 was ready, he said, to admit the proposition which had been laid down by the noble earl in the beginning of his speech, and with the repetition of which he had closed it—that if the question were one of equal disadvantage to either side, the benefit of the doubt ought to be given to her majesty. But the question for the House to consider was, whether the inconvenience on
242322ex parte212019ex parte;18The Earl of Liverpool
 was anxious to offer a few words, for the purpose of calling their lordships' attention to the order of their proceedings. As far as he knew, there was no question before the House; no application had been made for delay, as he understood, by the counsel lately at the bar; and no motion had been submitted to their lordships that this House should adjourn. He knew too well the propriety of conduct which distinguished the learned lord on the woolsack, to imagine that he could think himself justified, after the difference of opinion which had been manifested, in stating any thing to counsel at the bar, without an express direction from the House; and he now desired to know (he hoped it was not disorderly in him to do so) what it was the noble earl opposite wished to move should be stated to counsel in the name of the House.The Marquis of Lansdown
3837 thought himself bound to make a few observations in the conscientious discharge of that most difficult and painful duty which, in common with all their lordships, he had to perform. He must confess he could attach but little importance to what had been said by his noble friend (the earl of Carnarvon) respecting the inconvenience that would result if they allowed counsel to proceed at present with a statement of the defence, which would necessarily produce considerable influence on the public mind. That consideration was unquestionably an objection to what had been said by his
3837The Earl of Darnley
39—The House has commanded me to inform the Counsel for her Majesty, That if they think proper now to proceed to state the Case of her majesty, and mean to produce Evidence, they must proceed at the close of the statement of the case to produce the whole evidence intended to be adduced, such being the usual course of proceeding; but that the House are willing to adjourn for such reasonable time as the counsel for her majesty may propose, in order that when
39The Lord Chancellor.
—My lords; if by stating the case on behalf of her majesty is meant opening the evidence which her majesty may have to adduce in her behalf, should she be advised to adduce evidence at all—then, my lords, I have humbly to submit to your lordships, that should her majesty be advised to adduce evidence at all, I have no wish whatever, on behalf of her majesty to state the case, in that sense of the word; that is to say, to expound even one tittle of that evidence, until a certain reasonable delay shall have been granted by your lordships; but if your lordships will allow me, on behalf of her majesty, to make another application, I would humbly submit to your lordships our claim upon the justice and indulgence of the House, to be allowed in this present stage of the proceedings, that is to say, at what hour to-morrow your lordships may think fit to appoint, to be heard to comment upon the case already made out on the other side; binding myself in the course of that comment, not to offer to your lordships one single word describing or in any way opening or even alluding to the particulars of any statement of evidence which we may hereafter, after having made our comments on the case made out on the other side, advise her majesty to bring forward upon her part. I trust I have made myself understood by your lordships.Mr. Brougham.
 said, that if he rightly understood the application of the learned counsel, it was, that he might be permitted, to-morrow, to comment on the evidence in support of the bill without going any further into a statement of the defence. He considered comments on the evidence for the prosecution to be, in the strictest sense, a part of the statement of the defendant's case; and as such he was of opinion that this application could not be granted consistently with the decision to which their lordships had come on that point. Justice to the witnesses required that the value of their evidence should be estimated, not by the comments of counsel, but by evidence adduced on the other side.The Lord Chancellor
—I am commanded by the House to inform you of her majesty's counsel, that you will not be allowed to comment to-morrow on the evidence adduced in support of the bill—The Lord Chancellor.
—Without going on?Mr. Brougham
—Without going on. Have you any thing to propose in consequence of that?The Lord Chancellor
—My lords; placed in this new and unprecedented situation, I entreat your lordships to allow us till tomorrow to form our opinions, and finally come to a resolution of peculiar importance in the management of this case.Mr. Brougham.
—At what time would you wish to-morrow?The Lord Chancellor.
—At whatever time most suits the convenience of your lordships.Mr. Brougham.
41—Your lordships have placed the counsel in that very si-
41The Lord Chancellor.
25 observed, that a motion was about to be proposed relative to the statement to be made to counsel when they were called in.25The Lord Chancellor
32313029282726 said, that now understanding distinctly, for the first time, the terms of the proposition before the House—a proposition not occasioned by any application from counsel at the bar, and no reason having been given to them for proposing that such a communication should be made to counsel in this stage of the business—he felt himself called on to state, with all humility (not being so much acquainted with the course of proceedings in the courts below, nor in matters of higher judicature, as many of their lordships were), that, so far as he was informed on the subject, a more unusual communication than that now proposed to be made to counsel at the bar, had never been known in any court of judicature whatsoever. He would go farther, and say, that if, in answer to that communication, the learned counsel at the bar stated that he would not agree to cither proposition, but that he would reserve himself, in performing his duty towards his client, to make such application to their lordships as he might think fit at the moment, and under the peculiar circumstances of the period which might call for that application—if the learned counsel said this, he would, in his opinion, do nothing more than discharge the duty which he owed to his client. And he believed, that, of all the learned counsel who were lately at their lordships' bar, there was not one who would think it consistent with his duty to enter into such a regulation as that now proposed for their lordships' adoption. A more extraordinary proceeding never occurred in a court of justice: such a proceeding was, in fact, never before heard of. A proposition was made to their lordships for the purpose of opening a treaty, and entering into a compact with counsel at their bar—with individuals selected to perform a most important duty. Surely so extraordinary a proceeding was never before contemplated in a court of judicature. What was proposed to be done? Nothing less than this—that the learned counsel at the bar, who were ready to proceed—who stated they were ready to proceed—who had a right to proceed, on account of the situation in which the case now stood—should
32313029282726The Marquis of Lansdown
34In vulgum ambiguas.""———spargere voces,33 allowed that their lordships were placed in circumstances of great difficulty, in consequence of their having refused to grant her majesty a list of the witnesses, and a specification of the charges to be preferred against her. Had that refusal not taken place, and had a proper time been allowed to the counsel for her majesty to prepare her defence, their lordships would have been enabled to proceed in a way analogous to the usual forms in all courts of justice. The unfortunate decision to which he alluded had been the fruitful parent of a multitude of evils. He was far, however, from thinking that those evils would be amended by adopting the course recommended by his noble friend who had just sat down. On the contrary, unjust and anomalous as in his opinion had been the refusal of their lordships to afford a list of witnesses, and a specification of the charges, it would be ten times more unjust and anomalous to permit the counsel against the bill to open the case for the defence, and then to defer calling the evidence by which the allegations of that case were to be substantiated. His noble friend had asked if their lordships were to enter into a capitulation with the counsel at the bar. Was not that what they were daily doing? With respect to this very circumstance of delay, had it not been already stated to their lordships by the counsel, that if their lordships agreed to the resolution for refusing a list of witnesses, and a specification of the times and places of alleged offence, two months delay must be afforded them for preparation, and had not their lordships, on their part, intimated to counsel, that if they did agree to the resolution they would concede that delay? That was a pledge which their lordships had given; counsel were now called upon to say, whether they would avail themselves of that pledge, or at once enter on the defence. He willingly allowed the inconvenience of any interruption whatever, and he admitted that their lordships were, with reference to their former proceeding, responsible for that inconvenience. But the question now was, by what mode to meet the inconveniencies of the case? Were those inconveniencies, emanating, as they did, from the very nature of the case—was the impression which it was apprehended would be made on their
34In vulgum ambiguas.""———spargere voces,33The Earl of Carnarvon
 begged to be allowed to state the view in which he conceived that there had been no compact, no stipulation, with the counsel. Their lordships had authorised him to put a question to the counsel at the bar. The answer to that question had not been given in the usual and ordinary way. When that was stated, and upon the principle from which he could never be removed, that a counsel, when he stated his case, was understood to be ready with his evidence, he conceived that the only question was, to open the defence then, or to ask delay. He had put the question to the counsel in a manner which he thought the most respectful to the House and to the counsel; and when the counsel said, that he was ready to open his defence, he was thereby understood to be ready with his proofs, and not merely to circulate statements, which, by the way, if delay intervened, might be put into the hands of witnesses. When he stated the ordinary mode of proceeding, he did not mean to shut out deviations which might be allowed in extraordinary cases. On special grounds, further time would be granted in the present case; but it must be implied that they were going on, unless the contrary was fully understood, on the ordinary grounds.The Lord Chancellor
35 said, that differing, as he did, on the present occasion, from many of his noble friends, he felt it necessary to state the ground of his opinions as shortly as he could. It appeared to him, that the arguments of the noble lord, forcible as they were, were founded on an analogy to the courts below. He did not mean to deprecate the authority of the courts; on the contrary, he believed, if there was any thing that commanded respect and confidence in this country, it was the administration of justice in those courts. Entertaining this opinion, it appeared to him that the House, as a court of judicature, should not deviate from the course of proceeding in the courts below, but on very strong grounds, though certainly the House had a right to act upon their own discretion. If there were any
35Lord Calthorpe
1716"Built in th' eclipse, and rigg'd with curses dark."—"Perfidious bark,151413 declared, that the present question seemed to him most important in every point of view. It was important as it affected the pending proceeding—important as it affected the influence and the character of the House; and he should have felt himself unworthy of that rank which he always hoped to hold in the opinion of their lordships as an honest and independent peer—if not blessed with those brilliant talents which upon some occasions he could wish to command—if he had not upon such a question offered his opinion in opposition to that of the noble and learned lord who had last sat down. He agreed that it was a case of difficulty, and it was with difficulty that he had come to a conclusion upon it. He had hesitated, doubted, and when he should at last decide, he should feel with the noble and learned lord that he took a choice of evils. With that noble and learned lord, however, he could go no further. He could not agree that the present difficulty ought not to be ascribed to the previous proceedings of the House. It appeared to him to arise entirely out of those proceedings—out of the refusal to give in this case to the Queen that certainty of situation, that specification of crime, and that knowledge of witnesses, which the law of England allowed to every individual similarly situated. The noble and learned lord upon the woolsack had made an assertion—which was merely an assertion—that even if those advantages (rights he ought rather to have called them) had been granted, the counsel for the defence must at last have come to an application for delay. He was at a loss to understand upon what principle that assertion could be grounded. If the specification of charges, the list of witnesses, and the other advantages had been given, nothing could have occurred, as it appeared to him, to entitle her majesty's counsel to make such an application; nothing which could give them any claim to a deviation from those forms in similar cases commonly observed; but, refused those rights by the noble earl opposite, and by the House at large—attacked by charges spreading, in time, over a period of six years, and in space over three quarters of the world—denied that specification of facts, that list of witnesses,
1716"Built in th' eclipse, and rigg'd with curses dark."—"Perfidious bark,151413Earl Grey
 lamented that the present proceeding had taken place at all. He had considered the subject with much anxiety and with the utmost attention, and the result of his observations went to convince him that the best mode of proceeding would have been by impeachment. He founded that opinion on the highest authority, on the authority of a great man, lord Somers, who had been the principal instrument of bringing about the Revolution of 1688. In a trial by impeachment, they had nothing to do but to lay down the law, and to declare what the law was—their judgment would be the judgment of the law itself; but he did not see that they had a right to make a law to meet a particular case. It was, in his opinion, going directly contrary to ancient statutes and established usage. With respect to refusing a list of witnesses, so much complained of, he did not see how it was at all possible to furnish such a list; and as to the extraordinary course which their lordships were now called upon to take, he was of opinion that such a course was impracticable and would be most mischievous. They were called upon to allow counsel, who stood not at all responsible for his statement, to make whatever statement he might think fit, and to leave it for a length of time under the public eye, unanswered and unrefuted. As to what had been said to show that the adjournment ought to have taken place, if at all, before the solicitor-general summed up the evidence, he would ask, what did the statement of that learned person amount to? To nothing more than the recapitulation of the evidence. The case would be quite different with respect to the statement of counsel for the Queen. There was no balance between the two cases—one predominated greatly above the other.Lord Redesdale
40 asked, if they refused the
40Lord Erskine
ex-parte76543 was of opinion, that the learned counsel ought now to be permitted to proceed with his case in defence of her majesty the Queen, without be-
ex-parte76543Lord Erskine
—The House is desirous to know from you of counsel for the Queen, what course you wish to pursue.The Lord Chancellor.
42—My lords; her majesty's counsel deemed it their duty, be fore answering the question of which they had notice yesterday, to wait upon her majesty last night, which they all did, with the exception of my learned friend, Mr. Williams, who concurs with us, how ever, in opinion, and who is gone upon professional duty to York We communicated to her majesty the decision which your lordship communicated to us at the bar yesterday; namely, that your lord ships would not permit us to be heard at present to comment upon the case as made out against the Queen. We have received her majesty's commands to inform your lord ships, that we shall be ready to proceed, as speedily as possible, to answer the case made out for the bill, and to tender that in defence of her majesty; but as this will require a few days preparation among the professional gentlemen entrusted with her majesty's defence in the different branches of the profession, we have, on her majesty's part, to beg your lordships to have the goodness to grant us that short delay. Her majesty's anxiety to proceed continues unabated: it is rather, as your lord ships may perhaps expect, increased, by some of the parts of the case against her; and, yielding to that very natural, and I
42Mr. Brougham.
 stated, that whenever it was determined to enter upon the defence, the time ought to be such, as, in the opinion of the parties who had to make it, afforded them an ample opportunity for every full and necessary preparation. That time, however, ought to be left solely and entirely to the discretion of the counsel of her majesty the Queen. No personal consideration whatever ought to influence their lordships in the progress of the cause. Whatever time her majesty thought necessary to prepare her defence ought to be allowed, without reference to any consideration for the time which their lordships were under the necessity of devoting to the consideration of the subject.The Earl of Liverpool
 perfectly concurred in the propriety of what had fallen from the noble earl on the subject of awaiting the time required by her majesty's counsel to prepare her defence; but he understood the learned counsel, when he named Monday fortnight, to allude indefinitely to the time. Now, would it not be proper the learned counsel should state at once a definitive period? Let a day be fixed when all the preparations could be arranged, and let it be as distant as they pleased, rather than prematurely immediate. He agreed that no day ought to be named which the learned counsel did not deem perfectly convenient and suitable. Their lordships were bound not to attend to their own personal convenience; but still bethought a positive day ought to be fixed.The Earl of Darnley
47 could not agree with the noble lord who spoke last, in the view he took of the subject. He understood that the sole purpose for which the House this morning met, was to consider what delay the counsel for the Queen should require. When Mr. Brougham said, that he wished the House to meet again "at or about a fortnight," from the present time, he understood him to mean that that was the shortest possible time, on account of the Queen, that her defence could be proceeded in. But on consulting with her other legal advisers, and above all with her respectable solicitor, he was of opinion that three weeks was a period, at the expiration of which he was more certain of being able to pro-
47The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that residing as he did at a great distance from London, and having business which made it very material to him individually that he should be in the country at the period which had been last mentioned by the learned counsel for her majesty, he nevertheless entirely concurred with the sentiments expressed by the noble lord at the head of the Treasury, as to think that all private business should yield to the convenience and the claim of her majesty, as stated by her counsel at the bar. When he said this, however, he felt desirous of expressing the earnest hope he entertained, that the learned counsel would not ask for further time, after the period in question should expire, without a good and satisfactory reason. He did not mean to say that such a reason if might not arise, but he thought that it would be most vexatious to noble lords who, like himself, might reside at a distance from London, if after having, from their sense of paramount duty, so readily assented to the request of the learned counsel for a delay of three weeks, perhaps the most convenient one to them that could have been proposed, they should find the defence was not then to proceed. He therefore did hope it was to be thoroughly and clearly understood, that, without some satisfactory and conclusive reason, and one which could not now be foreseen, no further delay in proceeding upon the defence of her majesty was to be proposed.Lord Falmouth
 said, that after counsel had at first mentioned a fortnight, he was rather surprised to hear them ask for three weeks.Lord Rolle
48 said, that the question of the time of re-assembling lay entirely with her majesty's counsel. The House merely wanted to know the day to which they thought it necessary the defence should be postponed It was of no consequence where a noble lord resided, whether in Middlesex or Aberdeen; it would be his duty to attend on that day. At present an adjournment of three weeks was proposed; an interval which he hoped would enable noble lords to refresh themselves after the fatiguing business they had gone through. But after sitting so long as they had done, and enduring no common portion of trouble and fatigue in getting through one side of the case—he
48The Duke of Athol
—The House understand that you are assured you will be able to proceed on Tuesday three weeks.The Lord Chancellor.
 Without any doubt, my lords. I fixed the very latest date I dared. It gives me great uneasiness to fix this day, or to ask your lordships to fix this day, on more accounts than one. It is extremely inconvenient to all the learned counsel, for it is the first day of the sittings at Guildhall, but we cannot help it. It is we who have fixed it—not the Queen.Mr. Brougham
.—Before the counsel leave the bar, I wish to ask again, whether there is any objection, on the part of the counsel on either side, to the examining lord Frederick Montague, who is abroad, and who is named as a witness for her Majesty, in some manner by commission, that her majesty may have the benefit of that evidence without his lordship coming here; which I understand he is incapable of doing.The Lord Chancellor.
—I trust your lordships will seriously consider this, before it is determined that such a proceeding should take place in a case of a penal character. I should humbly submit to the learned counsel themselves, that it is very desirable that no such application should be pressed. I have no divided opinion upon it, as a matter of law; I wish to hear the opinion of others; but I cannot help saying I have a very strong feeling.The Earl of Liverpool
49—I thought it my duty to mention to your lordships, that such an application had been made. It cannot be assented to, unless it is consented to on both sides—whether, with the consent of the counsel at the bar, it should be assented to is a matter for your lordships.—Mr. Attorney General, there are two witnesses who have been named to attend on the part of her majesty, lord
49The Lord Chancellor.
vivá voce—My lords; I feel myself placed in a very delicate situation, in consequence of the application which your lordships have just made to me. I am directed by your lordships to produce the evidence at your lordships' bar. I therefore must confess that I hardly feel myself authorized to give a consent to this application. If it shall seem to your lordships meet, under the circumstances—if it shall appear to your lordships, that this is an application that ought to be granted—under those circumstances, I shall be bound to give it: but I apprehend it is rather for your lordships to consider, whether the circumstances are such as to induce you to take this extraordinary mode of proceeding, to examine witnesses by a commission abroad, and not to have their depositions vivá voceMr. Attorney General.
—It appears to me, my lords, that is all the answer the attorney-general can be expected to give. He is directed to produce the witnesses at your lordships bar; and it must be for your lordships to decide whether you will depart from the usual course.The Lord Chancellor.
 thought no such commission should be granted, unless it could be justified by some analogy in the practice of the courts below in criminal cases. He doubted much whether any such analogy could be shown.Lord Holland
 observed, that the observations which had last fallen from the attorney-general, placed the question in quite a new situation. It appeared from what he had said, that he considered himself as no party in the case, but as the servant of the House, thus making their lordships the parties prosecutors to the bill. If the granting of the commission, therefore, were to be a question depending on the consent of the parties, the House would, in fact, be the parties, and be thus both parties and judges. He trusted the House would take care how they involved themselves in any such anomalous proceeding.The Earl of Rosslyn
50.—mentioned to your lordships the other day, when I took notice of this matter, that there were in-
50The Lord Chancellor
44 concurred fully with the noble earl; but their lordships must still bear in mind, that their proceeding in this stage of the business ought to be entirely governed by the convenience of her majesty and her counsel. The idea of personal convenience to themselves their lordships were bound to banish from their minds, though he was not insensible bow severely this duty must necessarily press upon their lordships. Independently of the convenience of the Queen, there was one person whose convenience he thought their lordships were bound to consult, namely, the noble and learned lord who sat on the woolsack. The situation of that distinguished person was such as to impose upon him public duties which could hardly be said to give him any repose. His duties did not, like those of other judges, give him leisure when his court was up; for he had, even in whatever momentary retirement he could snatch, to toil over the business of his official situation. If no personal convenience were sought after by her majesty's counsel, most certainly none ought to be looked for even by the noble and learned lord on the woolsack; but if any convenience could be looked for after that of
44The Earl of Liverpool
 expresssed his gratitude for the disposition manifested towards him, but he felt it to be his duty to state, that no personal consideration should be suffered to weigh with him for a moment in a matter of this sort. He should be ready at the earliest period that would suit their lordships, to discharge, to the best of his power, the most painful duty that devolved upon him on this occasion. He could not but feel uneasiness under any circumstances, when contemplating the business before their lordships, but that uneasiness would be augmented; if any delay in the proceedings were suffered to take place on his account.The Lord Chancellor
 thought, that, on an occasion like the present, it was his duty to forget all considerations of his own private or personal convenience. He was confident their lordships participated in this feeling. He wished the counsel at the bar to state whether it would suit them that the period fixed for the re-assembling of the House should rather exceed than fall short of the time that had been named.The Earl of Lauderdale
 thought they ought to take up the learned counsel's own words, and ask, in the first instance, what had been meant by "at or about Monday fortnight?" He recommended that this question should be forthwith put, as this phrase "at or about" rather appeared to mean more than less than a fortnight.The Earl of Liverpool
—Mr. Brougham; you are understood to have used the words "at or about Monday fortnight." You are desired to explain what you mean by the words "at or about Monday fortnight."The Lord Chancellor.
.—If your lordships will give me leave, I will say this—We were very unwilling to take upon ourselves to fix, as it were, the precise day; wishing to yield ourselves, as far as we could consistently with our duty to our client, to the convenience of your lordships; which would be always the more a rule to us, the more your lordships desired to consult our convenience. But, my lords, I have no objection now to state to your lordships, that although her majesty is very anxious, from motives which I think will be duly appreciated by your lordships, to proceed at the very earliest day, I will take upon myself to say, as her law adviser, in which I believe I have the concurrence of all my learned friends near me, and of that most respectable person, Mr. Vizard, who is her solicitor, and whose information upon a question of this sort your lordships know is almost of more importance than that of any other person, considering the branch of the case which is entrusted to him—I will take upon myself, after such advice and information, humbly to submit to your lordships, that Monday three weeks, the second of October, would be that which would be suitable, if if should be found consistent with the convenience of your lordships.Mr. Brougham
 could not but think that the period of three weeks was as inconvenient a term as possibly could be. He really hoped that if the House were disposed to grant such delay, they would grant a period something longer.Lord Melville
 conceived, that, after what had been stated by the counsel for her majesty the Queen, he could not think her anxiety ought to cede to the convenience of any noble lord.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that the period mentioned by the counsel for the Queen was so very inconvenient to him, that he feared, from the nature of his private engagements, he should be under the necessity of applying to the House for leave of absence upon that occasion.Earl Grey
 suggested, that her majesty's counsel should be called in and asked, whether they would be ready to proceed on Monday fortnight, without inconvenience or detriment to her majesty's interests.Earl Grey
43 entirely agreed in what had fallen from the noble lords who preceded him, that they were bound primarily to consider the convenience of her majesty the Queen. He hoped, however, that it would not be deemed indecorous for him also to put in some minor claim in behalf of the convenience of their lordships. It was quite impossible that their lordships should not feel much inconvenience by an absence from their families at this period of the year. For himself, he attended at
43Earl Grey
 begged to move their lordships, that her majesty's counsel should be called in, and asked if they could state that they should be prepared to proceed on Monday fortnight.Earl Grey
 remarked, that the Queen's counsel had asked for time till at or about Monday fortnight. Their lordships ought to know precisely on what day her majesty's legal advisers would certainly be ready to proceed with the defence. From their having proposed that the trial should be resumed at or about Monday fortnight, he was led to think they considered it probable that they might be ready to proceed on that day, but not quite certain. In case they were not quite certain that they should be ready on that day, it might be for the convenience of the House that the period of their re-assembling should be fixed for a few days later, so that they might be absolutely certain of going on with the defence when they at length met. He did not say that it might be necessary to add a week to the delay called for, but perhaps it would be advisable to name some intermediate day.The Earl of Harrowby
 said, there was an act of parliament which authorised the taking of depositions by judges in the colonies, who were empowered to put questions to the deponent for the purpose of eliciting the truth; so absolutely necessary did it appear to the legislature, that the witness should be personally examined. If their lordships were to be guided by the principles of that act, it would be necessary to have a knowledge of the facts to be deposed to, in order that the questions might be prepared which the judge should put to the witness.Lord Redesdale
—My lords, I hope that my noble friend who sits by me, will reconsider the application which he has just made to your lordships, because it would be most painful to me to resist it, which I should feel myself bound to do. I cannot state in his presence the value I put upon his attendance on all occasions in this House, and even if he were absent it would be Unnecessary, as it must be equally felt by every one of your lordships. I hope it will not be considered as any breach of that friendship I have so long felt for him, if I should divide the House, if any such motion should be made.Lord Erskine.
 was satisfied that nothing more inconvenient than the adjourning for the period of three weeks could have been proposed to the House; and, if their lordships at all consulted their own convenience, the motion would never be assented to. It would be recollected by their lordships, that when the counsel for her majesty was asked by the House, after the solicitor general had concluded, when he should be ready to proceed with his defence, he replied "forthwith." It was therefore most extraordinary that her majesty's counsel should have altered their course so suddenly.The Earl of Darlington
 rose. He observed, that he felt it his duty to offer some explanation respecting a transaction upon which a good deal of conversation had taken place when they last met on this case. He alluded to a conversation respecting a letter which was stated to have been addressed to a Mr. Marrietti in this country, from his father at Milan. When the subject was mentioned at the period to which he alluded, he stated that he had been privately informed of the existence of this letter, and of the nature of its contents. Upon receiving that information, he had felt it his duty to desire that a letter should be written to colonel Browne, calling upon him to explain any thing which he might know of the circumstance. He had now in his possession a correspondence which had taken place in consequence of the compliance with his desire, which, with the permission of the House he would read.—[The noble earl then proceeded to read the correspondence which is inserted below.] The noble earl having finished the reading of the papers, said he had felt it his duty to submit them to the House, lest any doubt might arise as to any point in this transaction calculated to excite an undue impression. From their contents it would be seen that colonel Browne was so far conscious that he had acted consistently with his duty, that he courted any further explanation or investigation into his conduct that their lordships might think necessary. The papers he held in his hand, might, if it was their lordships pleasure, be laid on the table.The Earl of Liverpool
ex parte109 said, that supposing every part of the assertions contained in the correspondence was true, and that nothing
ex parte109Lord Holland
 said, that in consequence of what had fallen from the noble lord, he should now feel it his duty to lay the papers on the table of the House.The Earl of Liverpool
 thought the House ought to be put in possession of the original letter of the elder Mr. Marrietti.The Earl of Lauderdale
146lontano,V145144143142141***non mi ricordo140**139* see Vol. 2, p. 841.*Non mi ricordo;138***137136135prima facie,illiterati et impudentesDoctissimi DoctoresCensemus, judicamus,134Docticontubernium133132Sunt in illo numero multi boni, docti, pudentes, qui ad hoc judicium deducti non sunt; multi impudentes, illiterati, leves; quos, variis de causis, video concitatos. Varum tamen hoc dico de toto genere Grœcorum; quibus jusjurandum jocus est; testimonium Indus; existimatio vestra tenebrœ laus, merces, gratia, gratulatio proposita est omnis in impudenti mendacio.have not131Officina130129128127126125124† See Vol. 2. p. 788.****123* See Vol. 2, p. 749.122121† See Vol. 2, p. 747.* See Vol. 2, p. 743."almost"120* See Vol. 2, p. 742.119118117116115114113—146lontano,V145144143142141***non mi ricordo140**139* see Vol. 2, p. 841.*Non mi ricordo;138***137136135prima facie,illiterati et impudentesDoctissimi DoctoresCensemus, judicamus,134Docticontubernium133132Sunt in illo numero multi boni, docti, pudentes, qui ad hoc judicium deducti non sunt; multi impudentes, illiterati, leves; quos, variis de causis, video concitatos. Varum tamen hoc dico de toto genere Grœcorum; quibus jusjurandum jocus est; testimonium Indus; existimatio vestra tenebrœ laus, merces, gratia, gratulatio proposita est omnis in impudenti mendacio.have not131Officina130129128127126125124† See Vol. 2. p. 788.****123* See Vol. 2, p. 749.122121† See Vol. 2, p. 747.* See Vol. 2, p. 743."almost"120* See Vol. 2, p. 742.119118117116115114113Mr. Brougham
—In what page of the printed Minutes, Mr. Brougham?The Lord Chancellor
—In page 47, my lord.Mr. Brougham
 suggested, that the learned gentleman, when he quoted from the printed Minutes of Evidence, should specify the folio.The Earl of Liverpool
178177176175***174173***tumulto172† See Vol. 2, p. 1287.**Litera scripta wrote it?"say*double entendre.171double entendredouble entendresdouble entendresdouble entendres.170169168double entendres167double entendres,in rerum natur â,"tribuo illis literas de multarum artium disciplinam, non adimo scrmonis leporem, ingeniorum acumen, dicendi capiam; denique eliam, si qua sibi alia sumunt non repuguo; testimoniroum religionem et fidem nunquam ista natio coluit; totiusque hujusce rei quœsit vis, quœauctoritas, quod pondus ignorant."166double enlendres:165"potius arnica omnibus quamlibet inimica"164163*****162moremuchl161***160†See Vol. 2, p. 895.**l.*159l.llnaiveté,158llll157**non mi recordo.*156"Non mi recordo""Non mi recordo"Si, si,155154153† Sec Vol. 2, p. 810.***152or any thing else,or any thing else."151**150149148***147 proceeded—I asked him, "Have you ever seen the Villa d'Este since the time you came back from the long voyage? He had been examined in chief upon this, and had stated distinctly, with respect to the Villa d'Este, the state of the rooms, and I wanted to show the accuracy of his recollection on those parts where he was well drilled—" Have you ever seen the Villa d'Este since the time you came back from the long voyage? "I have."—Was the position of the rooms the same as it had been before with respect to the Queen and Bergami? "They were not in the same situation and before."—Then the witness gives a very minute particular of the alterations—a small corridor was on one side of the prin-
178177176175***174173***tumulto172† See Vol. 2, p. 1287.**Litera scripta wrote it?"say*double entendre.171double entendredouble entendresdouble entendresdouble entendres.170169168double entendres167double entendres,in rerum natur â,"tribuo illis literas de multarum artium disciplinam, non adimo scrmonis leporem, ingeniorum acumen, dicendi capiam; denique eliam, si qua sibi alia sumunt non repuguo; testimoniroum religionem et fidem nunquam ista natio coluit; totiusque hujusce rei quœsit vis, quœauctoritas, quod pondus ignorant."166double enlendres:165"potius arnica omnibus quamlibet inimica"164163*****162moremuchl161***160†See Vol. 2, p. 895.**l.*159l.llnaiveté,158llll157**non mi recordo.*156"Non mi recordo""Non mi recordo"Si, si,155154153† Sec Vol. 2, p. 810.***152or any thing else,or any thing else."151**150149148***147Mr. Brougham
—It would certainly be desirable that we should keep, as nearly as is practicable to the time which was arranged—a quarter of an hour would not be an object; but that probably would not bring us to the conclusion of the learned counsel's address.The Earl of Liverpool.
.—My lords, the counsel at the bar cannot possibly do justice to so important a case as this is, by binding himself to quarters of an hour, or half hours. As he is now beginning to comment on the testimony of another witness, this may be as convenient a time for stopping, as any other. I would therefore suggest that your lordships should now adjourn.The Lord Chancellor
.—I would beg to ask whether the learned counsel is near concluding. If not, perhaps it might be desirable to adjourn now, the hour at which it was arranged the House should adjourn having arrived.Earl Grey
207206205204203202Et omne vicinum oppidum.""Et otiosa credidit Neapolis,201200199198197196195***194193192191190To make the noble Leonatus mad."That I return'd with similar proof enoughAnd, to be brief, my practice so prevailed,Most vilely; for my vantage, excellent;Can in your duller Britain operate—Mine Italian brainRevengingly enfeebles me.—The princess of this country, and the air on't—"I have belied a lady,189188187**186Non-constat185184See Vol. 2,p. 977.entschadigung,belohnung,183182*181180all resumed—207206205204203202Et omne vicinum oppidum.""Et otiosa credidit Neapolis,201200199198197196195***194193192191190To make the noble Leonatus mad."That I return'd with similar proof enoughAnd, to be brief, my practice so prevailed,Most vilely; for my vantage, excellent;Can in your duller Britain operate—Mine Italian brainRevengingly enfeebles me.—The princess of this country, and the air on't—"I have belied a lady,189188187**186Non-constat185184See Vol. 2,p. 977.entschadigung,belohnung,183182*181180allMr. Brougham
—What do you propose to do—to call witnesses—or what other course do you propose to take?Lord Chancellor.
—Perhaps, my lords, in the absence of my learned friend, your lordships will permit me to state, that Mr. Williams proposes to address your lordships, in support of the argument of our learned leader.Mr. Denman.
211.—My lords, I under-
211Lord Chancellor
255254ex-concesso,telum imbelle sine ictu.253252nisi prius,251dum tacent loquuntur250nisi priusnisi priusl.nisi prius249***248vivâ voce247†Mr. Williams here alluded to the speech made by Mr. Canning in the House of Commons on the 7th of June, which will be found in Vol. 1, p. 962.**246felo de se,cum ratione insanireneque rationem neque modum habet ullum245†See Vol. 2, p. 1205.**double entendre.*double entendre244nominatim,double entendredouble entendredouble entendre,243**non miricordo?*242241***240239238237See Vol. 2, p. 1352.*236235234233***double entendre232**dramatis personaœ,*231† See Vol. 2, p. 1142.**non mi ricordo230***"Quæ regio in terris nostri non plena laboris?"229**non mi recordo,non mi recordo**228227**confitentem reum.*226***225† See Vol. 2, p. 807.*****224"Græculus esuriens, in cœlum jusseris, ibit;"223***222221***220Dum jacet in ripa, calcemus Cæsaris hostem.""Curramus præcipites, et219218217216215214213212 then proceeded—255254ex-concesso,telum imbelle sine ictu.253252nisi prius,251dum tacent loquuntur250nisi priusnisi priusl.nisi prius249***248vivâ voce247†Mr. Williams here alluded to the speech made by Mr. Canning in the House of Commons on the 7th of June, which will be found in Vol. 1, p. 962.**246felo de se,cum ratione insanireneque rationem neque modum habet ullum245†See Vol. 2, p. 1205.**double entendre.*double entendre244nominatim,double entendredouble entendredouble entendre,243**non miricordo?*242241***240239238237See Vol. 2, p. 1352.*236235234233***double entendre232**dramatis personaœ,*231† See Vol. 2, p. 1142.**non mi ricordo230***"Quæ regio in terris nostri non plena laboris?"229**non mi recordo,non mi recordo**228227**confitentem reum.*226***225† See Vol. 2, p. 807.*****224"Græculus esuriens, in cœlum jusseris, ibit;"223***222221***220Dum jacet in ripa, calcemus Cæsaris hostem.""Curramus præcipites, et219218217216215214213212Mr. Williams
—I wish counsel may withdraw. My lords, as Mr. Williams is going now to state what he means the witnesses to prove, and it is four o'clock, perhaps it will be best to stop him at this period.The Earl of Lauderdale.
—256 said, that before the counsel were called in, he thought it necessary to ask the noble earl opposite a few questions on the subject of our foreign relations. Among the mass of papers on the table there was a treaty, by which the five great powers of Europe had formed themselves into a tribunal to judge of the conduct of other nations. They had established a sort of state policy, by which they were, on every emergency, forcibly to interfere in the
256Lord Holland
257 said, he was perfectly willing to give his noble friend an answer, which he trusted, would be considered satisfactory: at the same time he thought it necessary to observe, that
257The Earl of Liverpool
258 was happy to hear the explanation which had been given, so far as it went; but the noble earl had not fully answered his questions. The noble earl had alluded to a difference between the cases of Spain and Naples, in consequence of the division which appeared to subsist between the two members of the latter monarchy. He should be glad if the noble earl would inform him, whether he Considered the events which constituted
258Lord Holland
 said, he had omitted to answer the noble lord's question respecting the relations between this country and Naples merely from oversight. It was well known that a gentleman of great respectability had for some time filled the situation of his majesty's minister to the king of the Two Sicilies. That gentleman was still at Naples, but not in the same character. He had no hesitation in stating, that since the late change took place at Naples no new letters of credence had been sent out to sir W. A'Court. The existing state of the government of Naples would sufficiently account for this; but the fact was, that, under the present circumstances, it had not been thought right to give any new letters of credence to his majesty's ministers at Naples.The Earl of Liverpool
 asked, whether the occurrence of such a revolution in a country like that of Naples was thought a sufficient reason for renewing letters of credence to an ambassador?Lord Holland
 did not mean to say that, under ordinary circumstances, when a revolution took place, new credentials should be given to the resident ambassador of this country. He had, however, no difficulty in informing their lordships, that, in the existing state of Naples, it had not been thought fit yet to give any new letters of credence, and none had been received from the government of that country.The Earl of Liverpool
295294 agreed entirely with the noble earl, that all they were doing in this case would be nothing more than a mockery of justice, if strict impartiality were not observed, as to the production of witnesses both on one side of the case, and on the other. Undoubtedly, whatever influence was exerted on one side ought to be equally applied to the
295294The Earl of Liverpool
 stated, that in the arrangement of the evidence he had not anticipated the calling evidence to this part of the Case so early in the proof, and that in consequence the witnesses who must prove a part of those particulars were still abroad; that he was prepared to put in the correspondence with Mr. Henry, who was at the head of her majesty's affairs at Milan, which was such as would enable any solicitor to make an affidavit in a common cause in a court of justice of his information and belief, but that he was prepared with more specific proof of the circumstances attending the absence of the chamberlain of the grand duke of Baden. That he admitted the government of this country had offered to the legal advisers of her majesty all facilities in their power for the procuring the attendance of witnesses, but that her majesty's advisers were not satisfied how far the power of this government might go in procuring the attendance of witnesses against the bill; and that objections had been felt to stating, at a distance of time before their production, the names of the witnesses whom it was meant to call, in consequence of circumstances which it would be his duty to prove in the progress of his case.Mr. Brougham
 thought it necessary to rise again to obviate any misunderstanding. He wished to repeat, that it was not the policy of this country, at this time, under present circumstances, to interfere with the internal concerns of any other country—that this country was no party, directly or indirectly, to any engagements of such a character, and had not, directly or indirectly, encouraged any measures of the nature alluded to on the part of other governments. This he stated most distinctly, with the reserve that he would not fetter the discretion of the government of this country by saying what course might thereafter be pursued under possible and eventual circumstances. All he desired was, that what he had stated might be taken in the terms in which he had stated it, and not in those in which others might describe it.The Earl of Liverpool
lasciar anello,262261 said, that having been the person who had first called the attention of their lordships to a letter of M. Marrietti, which seemed to indicate an attempt on the part of colonel Browne to interfere with the witnesses in the cause of the Queen, on the subject of which, papers had been laid before the House [See p. 109], he should have been sincerely happy to express his satisfaction at the explanation which had been given in the letters which the noble earl (Liverpool) had produced. Unfortunately, that was not in his power, as a letter had come into his possession at the same time that the noble earl had produced his explanation, which letter tended to throw a light on the proceedings very different from that which the noble earl's explanation had cast on them. That letter had been sent to him by a person with whom he had had no previous intimacy, and who bad given him no
lasciar anello,262261The Marquis of Lansdown
263 said, he perfectly agreed, that after the publication of the
263The Earl of Liverpool
 said, there was contained in the letters no distinct denial that the Alien act had been referred to. M. Albertonio only said, he was ignorant of its provisions, and that the personal security of M. Marrietti had not been threatened. Colonel Browne did not say whether or no the Alien act had been alluded to; he denied that any threat had been used.The Marquis of Lansdown
 wished all the letters to be put in; the first letter of M. Marrietti, in which the discussion originated, as well as the others.The Earl of Liverpool
 of the House.—You are desired to look at those letters (handing to the witness the letters produced by the marquis of Lansdown). The witness took the letters into his hand.The Clerk
.—Having looked at those letters, Mr. Marrietti, inform the House whether they are the original letters you have received from your father?—A. The first is an original letter written by my father to me, and is dated the 21st of August; I received it by post. The second is the 16th September; my father wrote it, and it was inclosed to me.The Marquis of Lansdown
264.—By post?—A. By post; but it was inclosed in another letter. The third is a copy of a letter written by my father to colonel Browne.
264The Lord Chancellor
.—Are these in the hand-writing of your father?—A. They are.The Earl of Lauderdale
.—Has Mr. Marrietti received any other letters on this subject from his father?—A. No.The Marquis of Lansdown
.—Then be so good as to inform the House to-morrow whether you have or not.The Lord Chancellor
firstsecond291290O magna vis veritatis, qua contra hominum ingenia, calliditatem, solerliam, contraque fictas omnium insidias, facile per se ipsam defendat!289288succus et sanguis287**286**285***284***283282***281280279278277**95,276***275274273‡ See Vol. 2, p. 1211.† See Vol. 2, p. 1116.***272271270proved269268267266265 resumed his speech, and addressed their lordships as follows—firstsecond291290O magna vis veritatis, qua contra hominum ingenia, calliditatem, solerliam, contraque fictas omnium insidias, facile per se ipsam defendat!289288succus et sanguis287**286**285***284***283282***281280279278277**95,276***275274273‡ See Vol. 2, p. 1211.† See Vol. 2, p. 1116.***272271270proved269268267266265Mr. Williams
in limine thought that their lordships ought not to pass over the charge which had been brought against his majesty's government by the counsel at the bar. The statement went so far as to say, that witnesses had been compelled by the executive power, to come in support of this bill, and that compulsion had been used by foreign powers, unresisted by our own government, to prevent witnesses from coming. Much of inflammation and misrepresentation had gone forth to prejudice the public mind, and he trusted their lordships would in future resist such conduct in limineThe Earl of Donoughmore
299 defended the conduct of the Queen's counsel, and contended, that his noble friend was not perfectly consistent when he complained of that conduct. The Queen's counsel complained that the arm of power had prevented them from producing their witnesses. It was not for the counsel to explain the motives which had led to the exercise of that power, or to show the source from which that arm of power had proceeded. In the discharge of their professional duty, the Queen's counsel had, in his opinion, conducted themselves ably, temperately, and properly; and if they had neglected to state any part of the evidence, which was material
299Lord Holland
300 fully concurred with the noble lord, that the House should not enter into any altercation with the counsel at their lordships' bar. If any improper observations had been made by the counsel, he was bound to apologise to the House for not having interposed. But their lordships were aware of the duties which it fell to his lot to discharge, and how difficult it was to discharge them. He certainly could not see, that there had been any reason for interposing. It was not without great hazard that a judge could take upon himself to determine how far a certain line of observation was or was not material to the case of a counsel. In this instance, the counsel had argued, that under all the circumstances, they ought not to be called upon to produce evidence at all, and they urged the peculiar difficulties which they said, had been thrown in the way of
300The Lord-Chancellor
 was called in, and having been sworn, was examined by Mr. Den-man, as follows:Then James Lemon
 stated, that he would not interrupt the examination, unless it was supposed it might have a bearing upon the case itself; that if it was understood to be a collateral inquiry, with respect to the conduct of his majesty's government, or the interference of the grand duke, with that he had nothing to do.The Attorney General
 stated, that he did not examine to this as bearing upon the facts of the case.Mr. Denman
.—Did he state any other reason for not coming? I am not aware that he did; he stated that he enjoyed his Hanoverian estates through his majesty, or through his majesty's kindness; but that he would not let that be a difficulty in the way of his coming to this country as a witness, because he was satisfied his majesty would not think ill of him for coining as a witness.Mr. Denman
 inquired of her majesty's counsel, whether they thought it material to proceed immediately with the circumstances respecting the chamberlain of the grand duke of Baden?The Lord Chancellor
 said, most unquestionably they were of that opinion. In addition to the reasons which he had already stated, for not applying to his majesty's government, there was another, and a most cogent reason, namely, that it was not above a day or two ago that they were aware of this insurmountable difficulty.Mr. Brougham
 said, that in point of fact there was no charge against his majesty's ministers, either by the noble earl, or by the counsel at the bar. The learned counsel had thought fit to conclude, that the influence which had been successfully exerted in one instance, would not be effectual in another, but at all events he ought to have made the attempt. If he had clone this, and the attempt had been ineffectual, it would then have been time enough to have cast imputations upon the motives and conduct of ministers, but he had no right to assume that government would have refused assistance, when that assistance had never been required. Under these circumstances, he submitted to their lordships that there was no necessity for going into the examination of witnesses, with the view which had been suggested by the noble earl.The Earl of Liverpool
298 said, that if the counsel at the bar thought it material to the defence of their client, to call witnesses at any part of the case, they ought to be allowed to do so. Whether they thought proper to examine witnesses upon a particular part of the case now or hereafter, was a point which he thought should be left entirely to their own discretion. At the same time he must take the liberty of saying, that though the examination of witnesses respecting the chamberlain of the grand duke of Baden might be very material in many other respects, it could have no effect whatever with respect to a suspension of this proceeding. The want of power on the part of her majesty to compel the attendance of her witnesses would be a most important consideration, whenever they came to decide upon the merits of the case. Their lordships order operated upon witnesses in this country with all the force of a subpoena, but there were no means of compelling the attendance of a foreigner, except by the influence which government possessed with foreign powers. He must say, however, that no suspicion could possibly attach to the conduct of ministers, because the
298The Lord Chancellor
 objected to communications between her majesty and Mr. St. Leger being received in evidence.The Attorney General
.—In consequence of any communication you received, did you make any preparation? In consequence of that communication, I prepared to go and meet her majesty, as she desired, at Dover.Mr. Denman
 here desired to remind their lordships that this was a question addressed to points on which he had been restrained from entering.Mr. Brougham
 agreed with the learned counsel, that the examination was taking an irregular course, and it might indeed be adviseable to expunge the preceding question and answer.The Lord Chancellor
.—When you saw her royal highness on the lake of Como, was any body with her? Yes, Pergami.Lord Rous
.—Did your sister, lady Charlotte Lindsay, leave the princess of Wales's service of her own accord, or was she dismissed? She left it of her own accord.Earl of Belmore
 said, it ought to be understood that every peer was in the situation of a judge, and was entitled to put any question that was not in itself illegal.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that they were all undoubtedly in the situation of judges, but it behoved them to act concurrently, and to render their proceedings as similar as possible to those over which a single judge presided.The Marquis of Lansdown
 was of opinion that the question he had put was one of considerable importance, as regarding the merits of the case, but he was perfectly ready to withdraw it, if in their lordships judgment, it appeared irregular.The Earl of Belmore
.—Did your lordship make any particular observations on the manners of Pergami? The observations I made on the manners of Pergami were, that they were perfectly unobtrusive, that he was not forward; that was the only observation I made. I have been asked, whether I had a Greek servant in the garden behind the House, to the best of my recollection I had; and that I mentioned the having a Greek servant to her royal highness; but more than that I do not recollect. She observed his dress; but as to having seen them walking together, I have no remembrance of the circumstance. I have, upon this subject, but a very imperfect recollection, but I think I did mention him, in walking in the garden, as a Greek servant, observing that I had him from Athens; he was in the dress of the country.Lord Ellenborough
.—Did your lordship meet captain Pechell of the Clorinde at dinner at the princess's? I think I did.Earl of Lauderdale
 objected to the question. This was exactly the line of cross-examination (named, with reference to the contents of a written document, which document, if it existed, was the only evidence which ought to be produced) that the other side, after two hours argument, had prevented him from taking; and he therefore did not see why it should be taken by his learned friends. There was nothing at all in the question of any consequence; but as he had been prevented examining in the same way, he chose to object to it.Mr. Brougham
 said, their lordships' object was not to save their time, but to do justice. If the objection was well founded it could not be given up by the counsel, because it was the duty of the House to suffer no question to be put which was improper. He suggested that the House should now adjourn and consider this point to-morrow.The Lord Chancellor
—When your lordship dined with her royal highness at Como, did you sit next her royal highness? I did.Earl of Lauderdale
.—What was the size of the boat in which the princess and Pergami were on the lake of Como? A very small one, a small boat.Lord Kenyon
.—Were her manners and conversation, the manners and conversation of a person who had been well educated, and who had lived in good society? Upon that subject I really knew her so little, I only conversed with her a very few words during the dinner, and I could not form any opinion of that sort as to the extent of her education; our conversation was extremely short, and there was nothing at all remarkable in the conversation.Earl of Liverpool
310.—At any time when yon have been at her royal highness's, and Pergami was in company, have you ever seen any improper familiarity between them? No, certainly none.310Earl Grey
 agreed with the noble and learned lord, that the circumstance of her majesty's counsel having omitted to make any application to government sufficiently exonerated his majesty's ministers from the charge of having in this instance obstructed her defence.Earl Grey
293***292 said, that before her majesty's counsel proceeded to call the witnesses for the defence, he wished to call the attention of their lordships to two statements which had been made by the learned counsel at the bar, and which he considered of so much importance, that he felt it his duty to submit to their lordships the propriety of calling upon the counsel to know whether they were now prepared to enter into the proof of those statements. Their lordships would anticipate that he alluded to the representations made by the coun-
293***292Earl Grey
 thought the fact of her majesty's counsel having omitted to make any application to his majesty's government, made a material difference in the view which he had taken of the circumstances. He now thought it unnecessary to enter immediately into this part of the case, unless, her majesty's counsel considered it material to her defence. The best course would be to inquire of the counsel whether they were of that opinion.Earl Grey
260259 repeated the statement which he understood the noble earl to have made, and observed, that its result was, that the late accredited minister of Great Britain at Naples remained there in no official station. This, he must contend, was a suspension of the amicable relations between the two countries, which the events that had occurred at Naples did not justify. He had heard the declaration of the noble earl on this subject with great pain. He admitted that the division which subsisted between the two states which composed the Sicilian dominions constituted a difference between the revolutions of Spain and Naples; but that difference was not such as to make it right in this government to sus-
260259Earl Grey
.—Did her royal highness introduce you to Pergami? She said, pointing to him, "Voici Monsieur Pergami."Earl Bathurst
.—Did not your lordship state, I observed nothing vulgar in her conversation, not the least? My conversation with her was very short, I was not struck with any thing vulgar.Lord Erskine
.—In what language did this pass between you and the chamberlain? Principally in English; he speaks English very well.Lord Grantham
.—What was the deportment of Pergami towards her royal highness? Nothing particular; very respectful.Earl of Darlington
296 explained the practice which prevailed in the Austrian service with respect to the wearing of uniforms, and vindicated the motives which
296The Duke of Wellington
.—In the journey in which you accompanied the princess of Wales to Naples, in the ordinary arrangement of the rooms, were the ladies or the gentlemen placed nearest her royal highness? The gentlemen were not placed near her royal highness, but there were always some men near her apartment to guard her.Lord Gosford
342—Do you recollect the date at which you went to Pesaro? Within a few days.342Earl of Lauderdale
.—Was the advice with respect to the withdrawing of William Austin from her royal highness's chamber followed or not? I understood it to be followed; I never was in her royal highness's room to see whether the beds were there.Lord Rosebery
.—Did you consider the manners of Pergami as superior to those of an ordinary courier? Yes.Earl Grosvenor
A Peer.—Have you any knowledge with regard to the passport granted to her majesty at Rome; did you ever see the passport? I saw the passport, but I did not read it.A PeerEarl of Darnley
.—Did it occur to you, that there was any impropriety in the manner in which the princess was walking with Pergami in the garden at Naples? Not the least.Lord Ellenborough
A Peer—Independently of the letter you received from England respecting her royal highness's motions being watched, what other reason had you for giving her a hint respecting walking with Pergami in the garden? I had no other reason.A PeerEarl of Liverpool
.—You have mentioned just now, in answer to a question put as to the manners of Pergami, that you did not make any observation upon those manners till he became a gentleman, but that from his becoming a gentleman, you did not see any thing inconsistent in those manners; what was the period at which he ceased to be a servant, and began to be a gentleman? I do not know what the period was, for I was not with her royal highness.Earl of Donoughmore
322 said he had, in the first instance, asked why the witness had quitted the service of her royal highness. In the cross-examination the solicitor-general had endeavoured to show that she had quitted her situation for reasons that had not been stated in her examination in chief—reasons which might materially affect her majesty. He now
322Dr. Lushington
 said, he wished to enter into no argument on the subject. Rather than do this, he would suffer the question to be answered.The Solicitor General
324323.—You have mentioned that you joined the princess of Wales ten or twelve days previous to her leaving Naples? I did say so.324323Earl of Donoughmore
325.—During your acquaintance with her royal highness, had your ladyship observed in her a degree of familiarity towards her menial servants, both male and female, that is unusual in persons of such high distinction? I certainly think that her royal highness was peculiarly affable and familiar in her manner to all her servants.325Lord Calthorpe
.—Your ladyship has said that you quitted her royal highness's service, in consequence of a request from the earl of Guilford your brother; was that request communicated in writing? It was.Earl of Lauderdale
328327Llandaff326.—Your ladyship has said, that when at Naples you have been in her royal highness's bed-chamber; did you go into her royal highness's bed-chamber when you were not sent for, or without knocking at the door? I do not suppose that I went without being sent for; but I am certain I did not knock at the door when I went.328327Llandaff326Earl of Lauderdale
Mr. Attorney General.—Your lordship is requested to speak from your own knowledge, and your own practice and experience? I have seen many ladies in bed in a morning.Mr. Attorney GeneralMr. Brougham
329.—Does your lordship recollect the names of the other attendants at Naples when you dined with her majesty? The servants; no, I do not.329Earl of Lauderdale
.—Whilst your lordship was abroad, did you observe any thing in the conduct of her royal highness calculated or likely to reflect disgrace upon our own country? I did not.Lord Grantley
330Keppel Craven.—Does your lordship recollect a ball given by her royal highness to king Murat at Naples? I do.330Keppel CravenLord Ellenborough
339338337336Mr. Solicitor-General335334333332331 maintained, that all that had yet occurred was material evidence. The question was, whether the two last questions and answers were to stand upon the Minutes, and whether he was to be allowed to continue his examination as to the family of Pergami. Now, he did not wish that either those questions should stand upon the Minutes, or that his examination into the family of Pergami should be allowed to continue, unless they were necessary to show that the family of Pergami was respectable, the allegation of the bill being, that he was a foreigner in a low situation—a menial servant, promoted highly beyond his merits. Now, if he proved that Pergami had been recommended to her majesty, by the highest authority, as a person whose family was respectable, though in reduced circumstances, and whose conduct was such as entitled him to consideration, and rendered him a fit object for promotion, he apprehended that he had shown sufficient cause why her majesty had given to Pergami that promotion which it was now imputed to
339338337336Mr. Solicitor-General335334333332331Mr. Denman
.—What was the hour of the night that the Queen returned from the Opera, and that you left her at her chamber-door? It must have been towards one o'clock at the time she got to her own door; very late indeed.Lord Enniskillen
362.—Did you attend the princess of Wales to the Villa Brandi and Ruffinelli? I was with the princess of Wales perhaps three days at Ruffinelli; I then came back to Rome, and attended her to the Villa Brandi, where I staid with her all the time she was there, being about three months.362Earl of Lauderdale
A Peer,—Did you yourself observe whether the short dress her royal highness wore when she had that of a Grecian female was on her royal highness in the first character she assumed? It was impossible; it was only by being in the passage close to the door, when the door was opened, I saw the princess in that short dress upon which she fixed, as I imagined, and indeed as I am certain, all her other dresses.A PeerEarl, of Rosebery
344.—Were you employed by her royal highness at the time, to make inquiries of the marquis on the subject? Oh certainly?344Mr. Williams
 maintained, that such an objection was quite untenable and inapplicable in this case, as the estimation in which Bergami was held by persons of rank and respectability in his own country was relevant and necessary evidence, in order to repel the libellous matter contained in the bill before the House, from which it would appear, that he was quite a despicable person. For this purpose, he proposed to examine the witness as to the manner in which Bergami was regarded and treated by the representative of the Austrian government in Italy. He hoped, then, that their lordships would not allow any technical exceptions to interfere with the important object on this occasion of ascertaining the truth and administering justice.Mr. Denman
umbra345 argued, that no such exception as was urged by his learned friend on the other side, could be sustained upon any technical principles, independently of the broad ground adverted to by his learned friend, who had last addressed their lordships; for it was not sought to obtain from the witness any words uttered, or any conversation which might have passed between Bergami and the Austrian chamberlain, but merely how the latter treated the former upon their separation at a particular
umbra345Mr. Williams
 rested his objection upon technical principles. The treatment which the chamberlain alluded to might have given to Bergami, must amount merely to an expression of opinion, and as that expression could not be received in evidence if tendered by word of mouth, he could not subscribe to its admissibility, when presented in the shape in which the counsel on the other side sought to introduce it.Mr. Parke
349348347346 thought, that as the chamberlain alluded to was dead, the House had no other way of coming at the fact, hut by admitting the evidence now offered.349348347346The Earl of Liverpool
 submitted, that his learned friend was now entering on a course of examination that was objectionable on two different grounds. In the first place, the contents of a written instrument were not, by a fundamental principle of law, admissible in the shape of parole evidence. At the same time he thought it manifest that the circumstances to which this part of the examination was directed were not material to the question which their lordships had to try.The Attorney General
 said, that in answer to these objections, he had to remark, that the rule of law, as observed in practice, was, to receive evidence regarding the contents of a written instrument, if that evidence was shown to be material to the general issue. It had already appeared that, conformably to usage, the passport in question was left with a post-master in Italy.Mr. Daman
 begged to remind the learned counsel, that it was not a regular passport, but an order for post-horses.The Earl of Liverpool
350—It operated as a passport: according to the strictest rule ob served in the strictest court, he was en titled, after previously indicating the materiality of the question, to render evidence as to the contents of any document. If his learned friend, Mr. Williams, were allowed to pursue his examination, he would assure their lordships that very important facts would be discovered. He would undertake to say, that the questions put by his learned friend, upon this subject, were most material, as affecting the interests of his royal client. It would be proved, if their lordships received the in formation, that in this passport, or post horse order, or document of some kind, her majesty was treated by the secretary of his holiness in a very extraordinary manner. They would find, that his excellency thought proper to describe her in that document as the "Princess Caroline of Brunswick," after being fully apprized that she had become Queen consort of England. The pope's secretary of state waited not for any judgment of the British legislature,—he asked not for any act of parliament to dethrone and
350Mr. Denman
, on the same side, argued, that supposing the preliminary objection to be of that kind that must prevail in the courts below, or in the trial of an ordinary case, it was not a complete or valid objection in the present instance. But in every court of justice the materiality of evidence was a consideration to be entertained. No rule of admissibility was so strict as to exclude evidence that might affect the real merits of a case. It was always open, after the reception of such evidence, to determine whether it should be allowed to operate on the judgment which was to be ultimately pronounced. The present question came distinctly within the latitude sanctioned in courts of subordinate jurisdiction; and where, if a written instrument were shown to be lost, parole evidence of its contents was regularly admitted. No doubt could be entertained that a document had in this case been left abroad—left in a part of Europe where their lordships could exercise no control, and from which there were no positive means of recovering it. It was like a document shown to be lost, or to be no longer in existence. These were the considerations which seemed to him applicable to the first and only question which it was now necessary to discuss—the question of admissibility: whether the evidence was material or not was a subject for subsequent consideration.Mr. Williams
352argumenlum ad hominem, in support of his objections, thought it extremely unfortunate that, whenever, in the discharge of a duty which he could not abandon, he did object, on principles of law, to the course which was pursued on behalf of the defence, his learned friends should break out into invective, and, instead of a distinct answer, should appeal to the passions or fancy of their audience. It was said that his objections were technical; but was a man in his situation to be so told whenever he found it necessary to interpose? Advantage had been already taken of his not interposing at previous stages of this proceeding; the 352argumenlum ad hominemThe Attorney General
353 observed, that the question just argued between the counsel at the bar was one of very great importance in itself, and also as it respected the merits of the present case. It was impossible, with justice to the case, to apply a rule to one part of the evidence, and not to enforce the application of it to every other part. If it was thought right to depart generally from the practice of the courts below, the departure ought to be complete. The first question' was that of admissibility; and, according to every legal principle of evidence, the proof of the loss or destruction of a document was to be made out before any parole testimony relative to it could be admitted. There were innumerable cases in which documents had been lost, the contents of which were most material to a clear understanding of the whole merits; but every court proceeding upon the known rules of evidence required it to be shown that application had been made, and all diligence used, for their production, and in vain. He should, therefore, propose that a question be referred to the Judges upon this subject; and that it should be framed in something like the following mode:—"Whether parole evidence, as to the contents of a passport stated to have been left abroad, could be admitted without some previous general testimony that application had been made; or, if not, that it could not have been made with any prospect of success?" If the learned Judges should decide in the negative, the second question of relevancy or non-relevancy would be disposed of. He would only now add, that it was impossible, in this stage of the proceeding, to conduct it so as to attain the ends of justice, unless they protected the witnesses up to its conclusion. He was sure no noble lord would have applied the epithets of corrupt or perjured to any witnesses in the midst of a pending process."353The Lord Chancellor
 observed, that in the question which he had recited, he had mentioned the post-horse order, with reference to its being the next best evidence, in case the passport could not be produced. The whole matter would be for the consideration of the learned judges.The Lord Chancellor
354 said, it appeared to him, that it would be more difficult to get any information as to the post-horse order, than it would be to procure information relative to the passport; and for this reason; because the passport remained in the hands of the person who got it, and that person might be asked, whether he had the document in his possession, or whether lie had destroyed it? But it was not so with the order; for post-horses, which was left with the post-master, as his justification for granting those horses. The individual who presented the order had afterwards nothing to do with it. He begged leave to state, contrary to the opinion of the counsel at the bar, that a post-house was not like a court of record, where every paper was preserved. No reason existed for preserving papers there, as they were preserved in other offices. The post-master's only motive, in preserving the order for a short time, was, lest, in the course of twenty-four or forty-eight hours, he might be called on by his government to show why he had afforded facilities to any particular parties who might have passed through the country. If, as had been stated, all those orders were preserved, the whole library of the Vatican would not contain them in a very short time, so great a number of foreigners were continually passing through Italy. The case,
354The Marquis of Lansdown
 said, the practice throughout Europe was, to send the passport to the post-house, for the purpose of having the order made out from it. He must contend, that, before it was established that such a document was tantamount to a passport, evidence that no passport had existed should be given; for this, he believed, was the only case where an order for post-horses was granted without a passport being previously exhibited. The thing, he thought, was impossible; and he conceived they ought to have a preliminary examination, in order to ascertain that fact.The Earl of Lauderdale
 observed, that the view in which he understood the learned counsel to ask their lordships for liberty to give evidence of the passport, was in order to show the style and character in which the party travelled—a fact set forth in that document, which had been signed by the cardinal secretary of state. As to the question, whether all persons, wanting post-horses, must exhibit a passport, the noble earl would find, that the practice varied in different states, and even in the same state, at different times.The Marquis of Lansdown
 was of opinion, either that the original document should be produced, or that evidence should be given, in the first instance, of its destruction.Lord Ellenborough
 conceived, that the suggestion of his learned friend, if agreed to, might create considerable inconvenience.The Lord Chancellor
 wished to say one word, without any desire to provoke discussion. He alluded to the second part of the objection, which was connected with the relevancy of the matter meant to be proved in evidence to the case now before them. He would ask, how that matter could, in any point of view, bear on the present case, unless they could connect the circumstance referred to with the government of this country. How the conduct of the pope or cardinal of the court of Rome, as to the treatment they had given her majesty, if that treatment were not connected with this government, could be considered as affecting this question, he could not perceive. He really thought the conduct of those individuals had nothing to do with the subject under consideration. He stated this, not as an objection on his part—for he was anxious to raise" as few of those objections as possible—but he merely threw it out as a suggestion for the consideration of others.The Earl of Liverpool
356 differed in opinion from the noble earl. He thought it would be most material to the Queen's case that the point in question should be proved. The noble earl stated, that it could be of no consequence if the conspiracy, of which it was said to form one indication, was not brought home to this country. But this was not a correct view of the circumstance. There might be a conspiracy formed in another country against her majesty the Queen, and its result might be the preferring of these very charges; although, at the same time, this government might not be at all privy to the existence of such conspiracy. He maintained, that it would be material for her majesty to prove a circumstance of this nature. Would their lordships refuse to hear evidence of such a conspiracy, because counsel at the bar stated that he could not bring it home to this government? Would they reject evidence, when counsel stated that he had the means of proving a conspiracy against the Queen in another country, which at a subsequent
356The Marquis of Lansdown
357 said, he would not press their lordships to refer the question to the learned judges. He remained of the same opinion that he had originally advanced; and as he was extremely desirous to stand right with their lordships, he would re-state what that opinion was. His idea was, that, if an order for post-horses be written, its contents could not be proved by parole evidence unless testimony was given that it had been destroyed, or that it had been refused, after proper application was made for its production.357The Lord Chancellor
359Parke358.—You should recollect, Mr. Williams, that sir William Gell has got the gout. [A laugh.]359Parke358Lord Chancellor
 submitted to their lordships whether the question could be put.Mr. Solicitor General
.—Did you ever observe any thing in the conduct of the princess of Wales towards Pergami, in her conduct, manners, conversation, or looks, to induce you to entertain an idea that there was an adulterous intercourse between them? Upon my honour I never saw the princess speak to Pergami hut on matters of business, though I was in the house for three months at once with them.Lord Ellenborongh
.—Can you state to the House whether, in point of fact, orders for post-horses are preserved or not? I really do not know whether they are preserved; they are given before you set out from the city; as for instance, from Rome an order for post-horses is, I believe, equivalent to a passport, as in the case of the Queen; that order is delivered to the post-master, who without it would give you no horses at all; consequently the passport is of no use till you have obtained that order.Earl of Darnley
361.—Are you aware, or do you now know the fact of Pergami being or not being a married man? I believe he is a married man, I do not know it.361Earl of Liverpool
.—On the return of the princess from the Opera at Naples to herown house on the second night she was at Naples, do you know whether she retired to her chamber immediately, or where she went? Her royal highness retired to her own chamber: I was in waiting, shut the door, having made my bow, and went out; I believe her royal highness went to bed immediately.Lord Chancellor
.—You had known Pergami in the situation of courier to her majesty? Yes.Earl of Belmore
WilliamsMr. Solicitor General363—You have stated that Louis Pergami has dined at table when you were present, how often may that circumstance have occurred? It has occurred several times, but sometimes he was on business of her royal highness, and then he was absent from home; when he was at home, I believe he generally dined there.WilliamsMr. Solicitor General363Lord Falmouth.
.—When you were at Ruffinelli, do you recollect Pergami being ill at any time? No, I do not.Earl of Lauderdale
.—You have said you saw the princess and Pergami walking on the terrace, and that there were also workmen there; was that soon after your arrival at Naples? I have said before I am not quite clear as to the time, but I should think not the earlier part.Earl Bathurst
341—You have stated that you supped with the countess of Oldi at Pesaro, with her royal highness; were there any I other ladies at supper at that time? Countess Oldi I dined with at Pesaro; there was another lady, an Italian lady, whose name I do not know.341Earl Bathurst
.—On those occasions, when the princess at the masquerade at Naples went upstairs to change her dress, do you know whether any attendant was there to assist in changing her dress, and if so, who was that attendant? To say the truth, I believe she had a very great number of attendants; the door was opened and shut perpetually, and every body was in and out of her room.Lord Brownlow
LordWilliam Gell343.—Was Pergami walking behind her royal highness on the terrace, or how? He was walking a little way behind her.LordWilliam Gell343Lord Combermere
.—You have said, that notwithstanding the opportunities you have described of observation, you never saw any impropriety whatsoever in the conduct of her royal highness, or of Pergami and her royal highness towards each other? No, never on any occasion.Lord Erskine
.—You are understood to have said, that while Pergami was in the situation of a courier, you did not particularly attend to his manners; but that when you afterwards saw him, when he was promoted, you saw nothing in his appearance or manners inconsistent with those of a gentleman? Nothing at all.Lord Erskine
.—At the masked ball where you were present, you have said that you did not particularly notice one of the dresses of her royal highness, so as to be able to describe it; if that dress, or any dress that you saw her royal highness in, had been grossly immodest or indecent, must you have observed it? I must have observed it.Lord Erskine
355 said, as he understood the subject, it appeared that the evidence which was sought to be given, went to this point—namely, whether cardinal Gonsalvi, in a certain paper signed by him, treated the Queen of England with due respect? Whether he did or did not deny to her that honour which she had a right to claim? Now, it appeared to him quite impossible that this could be shown by the production of an order for post-horses. Where was it to be had? In the courts here, an original copy, an office copy, or an examined copy of a document, might, according to the case, be procured. But what would one think if a postmaster were asked for an office copy or an examined copy of this order? The ques-
355Lord Erskine
.—Were you the person who went to ask for the passports for her majesty at Rome? No, I was not; the passports were asked for before I came to Rome.Earl of Darlington
365364 was called in, and having been sworn, was examined by Dr. Lushington, as follows:365364Then William Carrington
 objected to this question, and, the witness having withdrawn from the bar, proceeded to argue against it. The question was, whether the witness had heard Majoochi say any tiling respecting baron Ompteda. He objected to any conversation between the witness and Majoochi, with respect to a third person, being taken as evidence. Whatever Majoochi had said of baron Ompteda could not be received as proof of any fact concerning that gentleman. Besides, he was not aware that Majoochi had stated himself to have had any conversation with the present witness; and unless he had been asked whether he had had any conversation with W. Carrington relative to baron Ompteda, no ground whatever was laid for the course of examination which he had interrupted. But, if even Majoochi had been asked such a question, still any conversation between him and the witness relative to the baron's conduct could prove nothing having any bearing on the case. In order, however, to justify the examination at all, he called upon his learned friends to show that Majoochi had been asked whether he had had a conversation with Carrington, and had denied his having any.The Attorney General
 thought it quite clear that the question could not be put. Nothing was more fully admitted than that a witness could not be examined on conversations relative to facts collateral to the inquiry; and if the object was, to contradict the testimony of Majoochi, it had not been stated what question had been put to Majoochi which it was now wished to contradict. He apprehended that his learned friends were not entitled to refer to Majoochi's evidence in a general way, but that they must point out the particular statement they meant to disprove.The Solicitor General
366 trusted he should be
366Dr. Lushington
 explained. If evidence was to be obtained of what Majoochi had said of Ompteda, it ought to be sought from Majoochi, in the first instance, and not from the person with whom he bad conversed.Lord Redesdaie
 would not enter into the argument, but he confessed it was the first time in his life that he had witnessed an attempt to prove the conduct of a third person by a conversation which a former witness was alleged to have held with the witness under examination. Had Majoochi been questioned as to what he had said to the present witness, it would have been a different matter. As things stood, it would be necessary to look back to what had been stated by Majoochi on this subject.The Lord Chancellor
 referred their lordships to several pages in the Minutes, in which Majoochi had been examined with respect to his intercourse with baron Ompteda.The Earl of Lauderdale
 observed, that certainly that could not be done.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that his noble and learned friend would not, perhaps, think him out of order when he knew on what account he referred to the evidence. He was of opinion that the question could be put. He wished to save her majesty's counsel the trouble of doing that by argument which was already done by evidence. In the pages of evidence to which he had referred, it would be seen that Majoochi was examined as to the imputed intrigues of baron Ompteda, and asked particularly, whether there was any talk among the household of the princess respecting the baron?The Earl of Lauderdale
rectus in curia.Non mi ricordos,369 proceeded with his argument. He said that, when their lordships interrupted him, he was about to add that he certainly never conceived that the declaration of Majoochi could be evidence of what Ompteda had done, but that he meant to show that the conduct of Ompteda was not collateral, but a direct point in issue. He was going on to state circumstances which in a subsequent stage of the proceedings it might be necessary to prove, namely, that locks had been picked, that doors had been forced, and that plots had existed; because that proof would be the means of explaining that part of the conduct of her majesty which had been made a ground of imputation. It would, for instance, account for her taking care that some of her male attendants, in whom she could place confidence, should sleep near her—for her taking care to have always a person near her on whose fidelity she could depend. He contended, that evidence for this purpose was admissible, as Majoochi had thought fit to deny the existence of any plot whatever, and when examined at different times, had also denied all knowledge of any locks having been picked. His evidence was surely open to contradiction on these points. Their lordships would see, in page 63 of the printed Minutes, what answers he had given to questions about this baron Ompteda. In the first place, he said, "I do not remember the name." He was then asked—rectus in curia.Non mi ricordos,369Dr. Lushington
370 said, that after the able
370Mr. Brougham
 here interrupted the learned counsel, and said, that a great deal of time might have been saved if the counsel had stated the point to which his question tended. He would throw out for the consideration of the counsel, whether Majoochi having said that he had heard of a quarrel between Mr. Hownam and a German baron, but that he did not know the cause, they were not at liberty to ask what Majoochi had said to him, as to the cause of the quarrel?The Lord Chancellor
per fas aut nefas, said, that there was perhaps a more important answer of Majoochi than those which his learned friend had pointed out. He had said he did not know what made him recollect the baron's coming to Villa Villani. If, therefore, he could show that he must have known, he apprehended that it was quite open for him to do so. He was perfectly aware that he should be stopped in the question, for, whenever the name of Ompteda was mentioned, per fas aut nefas,Mr. Brougham
372371 objected to the style of his learned friend's argument, if argument it could be called, which, consisted principally in assertion. He was not aware that any objection had been taken, whenever baron Ompteda's name had been introduced, as to the propriety of introducing it. He believed it was a mere assertion of his learned friend to say so; but, if such objection had been taken, he doubted not it had been taken properly. He must oppose the manner in which his learned friend, Dr. Lushington, had argued the present question, because he had concluded it by stating, that it was a mere work of supererogation to shake Majoochi's evidence any further, it being already clear to every body that Majoochi was perjured. Such a decision was premature at present, and was one which it became their lordships only to make upon the conclusion of the case. He had never yet heard that a witness could be asked what another witness had said to him in the course of conversation, unless that witness had been first asked, whether he had ever said it to him or not. Now, as to this particular question, he wished to say a few words. The question which
372371The Attorney General
 denied that he had argued that the facts against Ompteda could be proved by a conversation.Mr. Brougham
 said, his learned friend had taken up the argument in the same way as it had been taken up by Dr. Lushington, and had stated that the manner in which Dr. Lushington had argued it, prevented him from saying more.The Attorney General
 admitted that he had done so; but said he had added nothing to the argument of his learned friend.Mr. Brougham
 viewed the question as being one of considerable importance. It was not to be forgotten, that the authority which had been mentioned was met by other authorities on the same subject. The question, as he understood it, was this:—"Whether A. B., a witness, being called for the plaintiff in a case, and being asked if he knew of a quarrel between two individuals, and answering that he had heard of a quarrel, but did not know the cause of it; and on cross-examination not being asked whether he had made a declaration to C. D. regarding the cause; the question was, whether or not C. D. could be called to contradict him by proving the contrary, the witness not having been asked if he had held such conversation with that person." This question should be submitted to the Judges, and after they had advised, the House would be better able to decide the question.The Lord Chancellor
 begged to suggest, that, conceiving, from the intimation made to the counsel, the opinion of the House to be with him, he had not finished his argument, and requested permission now to conclude.Mr. Brougham
 objected to his learned friend being heard any further upon the subject, after having spoken to it so often.The Attorney General
 informed the counsel, that the House, upon consideration of the importance of the question, would be ready to hear every thing that could be urged; and therefore were willing to hear the Attorney-general of the Queen, Mr. Attorney-general being at liberty to be heard in reply.The Lord Chancellor
ex consensu omnium375374Non mi ricordo, continued his argument. Past all doubt, nothing that Majoochi had said to this witness could be received as proof of any thing that Ompteda had done. But Majoochi having said, in answer to five or six questions on a particular point, ex consensu omnium375374Non mi ricordo,Mr. Brougham
376 said, that he should only be trespassing on their lordships time if he replied at any length to what had been stated by his learned friends on the other side. He had already answered it, and he thought their lordships would not be better satisfied if he were to repeat it. But, to come to the evidence, the witness had been asked, if, while he was in the house, a quarrel had not taken place between a certain baron and lieut. Hownam? To which he answered, that he had heard of a quarrel, but that he did not know the cause. Now, my learned friends say, they can prove that he did know it, and they propose to prove his knowledge by a conversation which he had with this witness some years ago. But, he said that they could not, in fairness to the witness, and by the rule of
376The Attorney General
 put a case—that a witness had made a declaration, of which the counsel, at the time of the cross-examination, was not aware, and upon which he therefore could not examine, but that it afterwards came, in the course of the trial, to his knowledge: would it be said, that for that reason, in a court which was established for the discovery of truth, the truth should not be discovered? Above all, would it be said that such a circumstance should prevent the discovery of truth in a case of such paramount importance as the present? Whatever might be the opinion of the learned Judges upon this question, he should still feel himself bound to act upon his own judgment. The fact now sought to be established was of too important a nature to be defeated by an objection so purely technical. If their lordships wished to avoid the embarrassment of a possible dissent from the decision of the learned Judges, he saw no reason why Majoochi might not be called again, and confronted with the other witnesses. This he had often seen done in the course of his long practice. He would not believe that questions were inadmissible which were calculated to elicit the truth. As a peer of parliament, he should certainly give it as his opinion that this evidence might be received.Lord Ershine
377 thought the qucx-
377The Lord Chancellor
378 had no objection to the production of Majoochi; but thought that, if the Judges were applied to, the House ought to adopt their opinion. It would be much better to con-
378The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he never meant to assert that, if the Opinion of the Judges should be in the negative on the questions, the House ought to neglect it. He merely meant to express his own dissent from it.Lord Erikine
 thought the better way would be to ask counsel on both sides whether they had any objection to Majoochi's being called.The Marquis of Lansdown
 stated, that he had no difficulty whatever.Mr. Brougham
 addressed their lordships. He felt in a very awkward situation, and he would tell the House why. Their lordships would recollect that Majoochi had been already examined three times in the course of the proceedings. The option was given to his learned friends whether they would proceed then or not with any further re-examination. They had declined doing so, and had preferred the delay which had taken place, in order to open their case. If they suffered the proposed course to be taken in this case, knowing as they did the law upon the subject, it was their lordships' duty to be prepared for the consequences. If it were done in this case, it might be done with respect to every witness at their lordships' bar.The Attorney General
 here interrupted the attorney-general. He did not apprehend that the House wished the learned gentleman to argue the case; but were desirous that he should state simply, as he was perfectly authorized to do, whether or no he withheld his consent.The Lord Chancellor
 stated, that he did not, under the circumstances, feel authorized to give a consent; that he must leave it in the hands of their lordships.The Attorney General
—Has your ladyship searched for that letter referred to yesterday? Yes, I have.Lord Chancellor.
—Can your ladyship state the grounds of your brother's request, as made in that letter?Earl of Lauderdale.
380 prayed leave to submit, through the House, that this was a question which could not be put.380Mr. Brougham
John Whitcombe. prayed leave to submit, through the House, whether the terms of this question were correct.John Whitcombe.Mr. Brougham
 objected to the examination of another witness proceeding in the absence of the Judges, who ought to be present, the better to be enabled to consider any question arising out of the evidence, or the application of evidence, which might be referred to them.The Earl of Lauderdale
381 thought that his noble friend entirely misunderstood the object of the presence of the learned Judges. Difficulties were very properly and wisely propounded to them, under particular circumstances; and, with great wisdom, their assistance bad been asked. They sat there for this reason—that questions might arise in their lordships' minds, upon the evidence given at the bar, which might require the assistance of the Judges in order to solve. These were questions of law, and of proceedings in law; and the Judges ought, in his humble opinion, to dismiss entirely from their minds what evidence they might have heard at the bar, and strictly apply themselves to the dry question referred to them. Conse-
381Lord Holland
 said, that during the period of his attendance in that House, in all cases the Judges had been present while the evidence was being given.The Earl of Lauderdale
 thought, after the explanation of his noble friend, that the practice which was contended for was still more dangerous than he had apprehended. For his own part, not only did he not think that the evidence stated at their lordships' bar was to have any bearing upon the minds of the Judges, but he thought that the questions argued at that bar ought never to be referred to them. They were not to give an opinion upon the arguments of counsel; they were to state points of law, and the construction of acts of parliament; and their assistance was intended for the preservation of their lordships' own character, importance, and dignify. The applications and references to be made to them by their lordships ought to be so framed as to bring out the clear opinion of the Judges upon them, but still with as little reference as possible to the proceeding or the evidence before the House; so that in fact it became their lordships rather to exercise their ingenuity in so framing them, as to hide their connexion with such proceeding or evidence. He really thought that, instead of the Judges sitting, as they now did, upon the woolsack, it would be just as well in effect, and perhaps more consistent: with strict legal propriety, if they gave the House the benefit of their aid in an adjoining chamber; so that any matter to be put to them must necessarily be exempt from the influence of any evidence, or of the discussions sustained by learned counsel. He thought it would be loss of time not to proceed with the examination of witnesses, when the question was so long under consideration by the Judges.Lord Holland
382 would say a few words, because they were now adopting a mode different from that of their former proceedings. With respect to any doubts connected with those proceedings, which might (but which, he trusted, would not) arise, those he should desire to refer to
382The Earl of Liverpool
383 was called in, and having been sworn, was examined by Mr. Tindal, as follows:383Then John Whitcombe
 objected to the question: it was impossible not to see the object intended; he did not, however, consider it necessary for him to argue such a question. It could not be legally put.The Solicitor General
 said, he had no wish to put the question further.Mr. Tindal
385Mr. Solicitor General.384—I think Mr. Tindal you have put it as far as you could.385Mr. Solicitor General.384The Lord Chancellor.
 wished the noble lord to state what precise question he meant to put to the witness?The Earl of Liverpool
387 begged leave with all respect to say, that that question could not be put. When Louisa Demont was examined, it was impossible not to foresee that the object of his learned friends, in putting certain questions to the witness, was either to insinuate or to prove that some person had slept with Demont. It was, he thought, a clear and undeniable point of law, that a witness could not be asked if she had committed an immoral act, or, if asked such a question, be compelled to give an answer, if she objected to it. It was equally clear and incontrovertible, as a point of law, that if the I witness thought proper to answer the question, and deny the fact attempted to be insinuated, that it would be incompetent for the party to negative her denial by proof. If he was right in that position of law, which he thought incontrovertible, then he submitted to their lordships, that they could not suffer that to be obtained circuitously, or by a side-wind, which could not be attempted openly and plainly. This he affirmed to be the undoubted construction of the law, as administered in the courts below. He stated it with the utmost possible submission to the noble and learned lord, for whose experience, knowledge, and talents, he had a profound
387The Solicitor General
389 begged to state td the House what he knew of the practice in the courts below. When he first came into Westminster-hall, which was between forty and fifty years ago, the constant practice of the Judges was, when a question of a criminatory nature was put to a witness, to inform him that he was not bound to answer the question: that practice was, he understood, of late years discontinued, and the more modern practice, as the rule was laid down in the textbooks, was, that a question of the nature he alluded to, might be put to a witness, though he was not compelled to answer, if he did not please. The rule also went further, for it was laid down, that if the
389The Lord Chancellor
 said, that though he felt little interest in the way in which the point was decided, yet still he could not see how the House could sift this matter to the bottom by getting that answer from the last witness which it was evidently the object to elicit from him. Demont might be called again; and yet, notwithstanding this contradiction, she might be able to reconcile what the witness stated with the evidence she had herself previously given. She might say she had admitted this person to her chamber, and still persevere in saying she had never slept the whole, or any part, of a night with any body, for that was what her answer literally stated. How was it possible to go farther than this, if both witnesses were re-examined?The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that where a disagreement as to the mode of examining a witness occurred, the decision should always be vested in the wisdom of the Judges.The Earl of Lauderdale
390 said, that the construction evidently and plainly put upon
390The Lord Chancellor
 thought it of very great importance that the rules of law should be preserved unimpaired, and that at the same time all the facts should be elicited from witnesses. He thought that, where a doubt arose upon a question, it ought not to be put until the sense of the House was taken upon it.The Marquis of Buckingham
 said, he was quite sure his noble and learned friend would not put a question until he saw that the sense of the House was with the propriety of putting it.The Lord Chancellor
391—You have been six years in Mr. Keppel Craven's service? Yes, I have.391Earl of Lauderdale.
—Were you ever in Demont's bed-room, after having gone into lodgings from the house at which you had first been? Yes, frequently.Lord Hood.
393392—My lords, the Judges have considered the questions proposed to them by your lordships; one of those questions is in these words, "If in the courts below a witness examined in chief on the part of the plaintiff being asked, whether he remembered a quarrel taking place between A. and B., answered, that he did not remember it, and such witness was not asked, on his cross-examination, whether he had or had not made a declaration stated in the question respecting such quarrel; and in the progress of the defence the counsel for the defendant proposed to examine a witness to prove that the other witness had made such a declaration, in order to prove that he must remember it; according to the practice of the courts below, would such proof be received?"393392Lord Chief Justice Abbott.
 observed, that every noble lord must have carefully attended to the opinion just delivered, and to the language in which ii was expressed. It appeared that, by the practice of the Courts below, the question might be regarded as objectionable, and their lordships would remember their own resolution of conforming generally to that practice.The Earl of Liverpool
 thought the reasons stated by the learned judge completely satisfactory.Lord Holland
 said, that, in strict form, the examination now about to be pursued ought to be conducted by the court. If the learned counsel would have the goodness to represent to him the questions he wished to put, he would himself state them to the witness.The Lord Chancellor
394 was again called in, and examined by the lords as follows, through the interpretation of the Marchese di Spineto.394Then Teodoro Majoochi
 requested to be permitted to put a question to the witness with a view to his having said so to any person generally.Mr. Brougham
 stated, that he proposed to ask that question, not as applying to the witness having said this to other persons, but lest any difficulty should arise from his hereafter saying that he had said so, but did not know the person to whom the questions had referred.Mr. Brougham
—"Did you ever see the baron Ompteda? I do not remember that name.Mr. Brougham.
395 was again called in, and farther examined by Dr. Lushington, as follows:395Then William Carrington
Lords.Lushington.398397396Mr. Attorney General.—Did Majoochi tell you that Ompteda had employed some one to get the keys belonging to the princess at Como, in order to get false ones made? He did.Lords.Lushington.398397396Mr. Attorney General.Dr. Lushington.
399—You state that you have been a midshipman in the king's service? Yes.399Marquis of Buckingham.
400—Where is Ruffinelli? It is about four miles from Rome.400Lord Ellenborough.
—You have said that you saw Louis Pergami at the time this conversation took place between you and Majoochi? Yes.Earl of Lauderdale.
—In what ship did you serve in the navy? I was with sir John Beresford in the Poictiers.Marquis of Huntley.
—What was the first year you went to Italy? I think in 1814.A Peer
—You say that Teodoro Majoochi told this story first in the servants-hall: state particularly the names of the servants who were there; were those the servants you saw either before or afterwards at the Villa Brandi? I saw them at the Villa Brandi afterwards.The Earl of Liverpool.
—Can you repeat in Italian the particular phrase Majoochi made use of, with reference to speaking of baron Ompteda? I can a little, I think.Earl of Rosebery.
—Can you swear to the accuracy of those latter words "come un cane"?—Yes, I can.Earl of Rosebery.
—You have staled the distance from the Villa Ruffinelli to Rome to be four miles; what miles do you mean? I mean Roman miles, or geographical miles.Earl of Darnley.
—Do you, recollect whether there are any measures of distance corresponding with mile-stones on the road? I do not recollect any mile-stones; it is generally called so.Marquis of Lansdown.
—Is Frascati near to Ruflinelli? It is about half a mile, or a quarter of a mile.Earl of Lauderdale.
402—You have staled that Majoochi had held some conversation in the
402Earl of Hurrowby.
—Wits the conversation in the servants hail, and the conversation in the yard upon that subject, held on the same day? No, it was not.Earl of Rosebery.
—Did you ever mention this to sir William Cell? I did, after I had read the evidence.Marquis of Buckingham
—Did you take any part in the conversation with Majoochi, respecting Ompteda, when you heard him mention it In the servants hall? I did not take any part further than giving car to it; but he told me more particularly in the yard.Marquis of Loudsdown.
—You have given in Italian some part of what Majoochi told you can you give in the original Halian words, the way in which he began his conversation, what were the Italian words? Avete inteso cosa ha detto il gente de la servizio di aflare de Ompteda.A Peer.
403—You mentioned this mailer to Mr. Vizard after you had read the evidence given by Majoochi? I did.403Marquis of Buckingham.
Lords.Brougham.l.l.l.410409408l.Mr. Solicitor General.407406405 was called in, and having been sworn, was examined by Mr. Brougham, as follows:Lords.Brougham.l.l.l.410409408l.Mr. Solicitor General.407406405Then John Jacob Sicard
411—When Pergami was first taken into the princess of Wales's service, were you desired to make any inquiries into his character? None, because the marquis of Ghisiliari recommended him for the whole.411Lord Ellenborough.
412—You have said that you engaged Pergami for her royal highness's service without having had any previous communication upon the subject with her royal highness? I did.412Earl of Donoughmore.
—You are understood to have stated, that upon the arrival of her royal highness at Naples the first apartment allotted to Pergami was over the apartment of lady Elizabeth Forbes? It was.Lord Cathcart.
—Have you any certificate from sir John Beresford of your service under his command? I had it, but I have not it now.Lord Colville.
—What countrymen are you? An Englishman.Lord Enniskillen.
414—Can you state, from your knowledge, whether at Naples the princess of Wales breakfasted alone with Pergami? Never, never to my knowledge.414Marquis of Lansdown.
415—Do you recollect the princess, the night after you went to Naples, going to the Opera? I recollect her royal highness going to the Opera.415Earl of Lauderdale.
416—Were there not two ways by which a person could go from Pergami's room to that of the princess, one by a public passage, another by a smaller passage, and the cabinet? Yes, that is exactly the case.416Earl of Rosslyn
—If a person had gone from Pergami's room to the princess's, by the public passage, must he not have passed by the doors of the rooms in which Dr. Holland and other members of the suite slept? Yes.Marquis of Buckingham
—During the time that you were travelling on the comment in the service of her royal highness, had you no opportunities at all of observing the manners and appearance of other couriers? I had but one with us.Lord Calthorpe
367 wished to remind their lordships of the state of the case. The question which the learned counsel proposed to put had been objected to on two grounds: first, that it was collateral to the inquiry; and secondly, that Majoochi had not been asked whether he had any conversation with the witness Carrington. Now, if he understood the particular point to which the learned counsel was replying when he was interrupted, it was the first ground of objection. He was going
367Earl Grey
 said, that even if the opinion of the learned Judges should be against I them, he should wish, for the sake of justice, that the question should be put. The noble lord on the woolsack had suggested a mode of proceeding which would save time, and get rid of the present difficulty, which had arisen from an omission in the examination of Majoochi. Majoochi might now be called in and asked, "Did you hold any conversation with Carrington about baron Ompteda?" If this could be done, it would be the most convenient mode of proceeding.Earl Grey
—If you are understood in your description of the house at Naples, a person wishing to go from the apartment of the princess to Pergami's room might do so by going through a passage, and then through a email cabinet, and then to Pergami's room? As far as I can recollect that is exactly the case.Earl of Harrowby.
—You were a midshipman on hoard the Poictiers? Yes.Earl of Enniskillen.
 said, that if the witness demurred to the question, it was impossible to carry it farther. Whether a man slept with her was certainly a different question from that which she had already answered.Lord Redesdale
 said, the learned counsel was raising an argument on the subject of baron Ompteda's conduct; but he had no right to impugn any individual's character on a conversation between the witness and a third person. If he was prepared to show by evidence, that baron Ompteda's conduct had been such as he described, let him bring it forward. But to take the course he proposed to pursue at present, was to exceed those bounds of right and duly within which counsel ought to confine themselves.Lord Redesdale
 interrupted the learned counsel, and moved that counsel do withdraw. The learned counsel had no right to pursue the course of examination he proposed. He could not impugn the conduct of baron Ompteda by conversations which had passed between the witness and another person.Lord Redesdale
368 said, his noble and
368Lord Erskine
 rose to order, and suggested that the counsel at the bar should refer to the pages of the Evidence.Lord Erskine
 replied, that he could not know how to anticipate the objections of the House; nor could he well say beforehand what precise questions he might put. It was obvious that his questions must, after the first, depend upon the answers of the witness, of which he could have no foreknowledge.Lord Erskine
—Where did you sleep in the house at Naples during the time you were there? In a small room next the hon. Keppel Craven.Lord Erskine.
 said, that his object was merely to show a contradiction of the same fact in the testimony of these witnesses. He meant to go no farther.Lord Erskine
 said, he could not concur in any practice which had the effect of shutting out evidence capable of throwing a light upon the testimony of a witness. Questions might still be shaped so as to sift the matter in controversy without violating the rules of evidence practised in the courts below.Lord Erskine
388 said, he remained unconvinced that his question ought not to be put; for be thought not only that the question he was putting to this witness might have been put to Demont, but also that she might have been legally asked whether Whitcombe had ever slept with her. He affirmed that that might have been done. It was a course which he had himself often pursued at the king's bar; be had repeatedly asked a witness questions which went to show his criminality. He was perfectly ready to admit, that the witness was not bound to answer; but if be answered, what reason was there to take that answer as conclusive, and not to be shaken by other testimony? He remembered that once he had insisted upon sifting such a question: it was objected to, and he tendered a bill of exceptions, which bill he was not under the necessity of arguing; it went to all the reason of the Judges, and received the assent of the most eminent men at the bar whom he had consulted on the occasion. He had over and over again put such questions. He should state what passed in conversation between himself and lord Ellenborough at the time. For that noble lord's learning and abilities he had ever entertained the greatest deference and respect. Suppose, said he (lord Erskine), to lord Ellenborough, that you had been taking a walk among the new improvements in the neighbourhood of Bloomsbury-square, and that some fellow dared to charge you with the commission of a crime, which, if proved, would justly degrade you in the eyes of the world. I know that when the charge was made, the first thing you would do, perhaps, would be, to send for me, to undertake your defence. Suppose that we had every reason to believe the fellow who made the charge to be a scoundrel, false and wicked enough to make it with the view to extort money. The examination, we will suppose, commenced. I said to the fellow, "Who are you, sir?—A captain of a ship. Of what
388Lord Erskine
 replied, that he meant to ask him, whether he spent any part of any night, or the whole of any night, in the room of Louisa Demont, when she was there and in bed?Lord Erskine
386 said, he had something to ask the witness, but for the present he must withdraw from the bar. The witness having withdrawn, the noble and learned lord said, that, before he proceeded to put some questions to the last witness, he begged particularly to call their lordships' attention to the matter out of which the questions he meant to put arose. For this purpose he should beg leave to read,
386Lord Erskine
 agreed with his noble and learned friend in thinking, that the whole course of examination which counsel now proposed to pursue, must be built upon what Majoochi had said in his former examination, but differed from him when he said, that the present question appeared to him to be such as could not be allowed. He thought that her majesty's counsel had a right in their questions, not merely to refer to what Majoochi formerly said, but with such commentaries as they might think the nature of his evidence required. Their lordships were to look in the Minutes to what Majoochi had previously stated. Counsel proposed to show, by a conversation which had taken place between Majoochi and the witness, that what Majoochi had there stated could not be true, and that Majoochi must have known at the time he stated it, that it could not be true. In his idea, that line of examination was perfectly allowable. If, however, his noble and learned friend wished to have the point decided by the Judges, he had no objection. The House, however, were the real judges of it; and it was for them to decide whether the question, on which so much discussion had arisen, should be put to the witness or not.Lord Erskine
 thought that the proposition of lord Lauderdale went much too far.Lord Erskine
413—You have said that till the time of getting to Naples, William Austin usually slept in the princess of Wales's apartment? Yes.413Lord Grantham.
—Did you go by the same name when you were on board the Poictiers as you do now? I did.Duke of Clarence.
404—Having stated that you
404Duke of Clarence.
—How long were you in her royal highness's suite, or rather in her household, after she left this country in 1814? Until the 15th of February 1815, when I left Naples.Earl of Darlington.
Lords422Wilde421420419Mr. Solicitor General418417 M. D. was called in, and having been sworn, was examined by Mr. Wilde as follows:Lords422Wilde421420419Mr. Solicitor General418417Then Henry Holland
—Did you ever see her royal highness and Pergami together after Pergami was raised to the rank of chamberlain? I never did.A Peer
—Do you know whether there was a cabinet adjoining to Pergami's room? From my recollection, opposite to the door of Pergami's room, there was a door into a small room, which may be called a cabinet or not.Earl of Lauderdale
—Do you, of your own knowledge, know any thing of the Queen for the last six years? I believe the time since I quitted her royal highness's service was five years exactly in June last.Lord Kingston
424—To whom did you dedicate the book of travels which you have published? There was no dedication.424Lord Rous
—Do you recollect the princess coming into Pergami's bed-room at the time you were dressing his foot during his illness? Certainly she did not.Earl of Rosebery
—When the princess of Wales introduced the countess Oldi to you, did she introduce her or not as Pergami's sister? She did not.Earl of Liverpool
—In what language did the princess of Wales and madame Oldi converse? As far as I can recollect the circumstance, the princess spoke some words of Italian; whether the countess of Oldi spoke French or not I do not know.Lord Dynevor
—Did Pergami ever dine at her royal highness's table when you dined there? Never.Lord Chancellor
426—Do you recollect her royal highness ever, upon any occasion, having expressed herself dissatisfied with the situation of her house at Genoa? I do not remember her royal highness having made such expression; but I do recollect her royal highness at one time going to see another house in the neighbourhood of Genoa, which I understood, for the moment, she thought of taking. She did not take it.426Lord Calthorpe
—Did any of those principal servants, whom you mentioned in answer to the question last but two, dine at the Queen's table? None.Lord Chancellor
428427 esq. was called in, and having been sworn, was examined by Mr. Denman, as follows:428427Then Charles Mills,
 objected to this question, as being not only a leading question, but one entirely travelling out of the point of inquiry.The Attorney General
429 with much animation, contended for the propriety of the question he had put. Did not the bill, he asked, both in letter and in spirit, arraign her majesty's conduct in public and in private? did it not
429Mr. Denman,
 said, he did not mean to restrict his learned friend from going into any inquiry which he deemed material—he only objected to his proceeding to question the witness in so leading and so general a manner.The Attorney General
 denied that the question just put was a leading one. Her majesty's conduct was generally impugned by the bill, and he wanted to show that it was unjustly impugned. This witness had competent means of forming an opinion.Mr. Brougham
431430Mr. Attorney General said, he certainly saw no objection to the question being put; but he could not help suggesting to the learned counsel who put it, whether, if evidence on the one side of general conduct, without touching on the special charge, were admitted, it would not be open to the other side also to adduce evidence as to general conduct?431430Mr. Attorney GeneralThe Earl of Liverpool
—Did you feel any objection to sitting down to table with Pergami? I cannot say that I did.A. Peer
—In the year 1817, when you were in the habit of visiting her royal highness at Rome, did you see any English lady in her society? At the period of the year that her royal highness came to Rome, there were but few English. I do not remember to have seen any English lady.Earl of Liverpool
—Do you know whether any application was made for a passport, to the government of Rome, by her majesty the Queen of England? I know that application was made to the British consul for a passport.Earl of Mansfield
—When you dined or supped in company with the countess Oldi, were you introduced to her? I was introduced to her the first time I saw her.Lord Falmouth
432—Was the language of the countess Oldi grammatically correct? I am not able to answer that question; I do not consider myself sufficiently versed in the Italian language to answer that question certainly,432Lord Ellenborough
comme un honnête homme433 was called in, and having been sworn, was examined as follows by Mr. Williams, through the interpretation of Mr. Pinario.comme un honnête homme433Then Joseph Teuillé
—At the time the first hussars were in the brigade commanded by your brother, what was the rank next above that of a private hussar? The first or lowest degree is the common hussar, then comes brigadier, or corporal, then mareschal de logis, that is not the same thing as a quarter-master.Lord Cathcart.
Lords.Brougham.445444To the WitnessTo the Interpreter443442441440Mr. Attorney General,439438437 was called in; and having been sworn, was examined by Mr. Brougham, through the interpretation of the Marchese di Spineto, as follows:Lords.Brougham.445444To the WitnessTo the Interpreter443442441440Mr. Attorney General,439438437Then Carlo Forti
423—Did you attend Pergami during his short illness at Naples? I did.423Earl of Lauderdale
—Were you travelling alone when this accident at Storta happened? I was travelling together with the cousin of Pergami.Lord Ellenbororgh.
—Do you know the countess Oldi's husband? I do not.Earl of Lauderdale.
451450Mr. Solicitor-General.449448447 of the Royal Navy was called in, and having been sworn, was examined by Mr. Denman, as follows:451450Mr. Solicitor-General.449448447Then Lieutenant John Flinn
 asked, if the witness had offered to look at the paper.The Lord Chancellor
 observed, that the memorandum offered by the witness was merely a copy of some previous entry in the log-book, and made during a subsequent voyage. He submitted, therefore, that it could not be produced.The Solicitor General
—Where did you make those orignal papers that you spoke of? The papers were made on board the vessel which I commanded.Lord Chancellor.
456455454453—Have you looked at that memorandum since you have been out of this House? No, I have not.456455454453Mr. Solicitor General.
 seemed to be of opinion, that if the memorandum were not produced, the counsel had a right to tax the memory of the witness.The Lord Chancellor
 explained, that as the memorandum had not been made at the time of the transaction, in his view it could I not be employed by the witness for the purpose of refreshing his memory.The Earl of Liverpool
 remarked, that the question was not whether the memorandum should be received in evidence, but whether a copy of the original, which original he understood to have been made at the time, might be used by the witness to refresh his memory, as to dates.The Marquis of Lansdown
 read the following sentence from Phillipps's Law of Evidence:—"To assist his memory, a witness may use a written entry in a book, or a memorandum, or a copy of a memorandum, such entry and memorandum having been made at the time when the fact occurred, or immediately afterwards." Therefore, if the witness swore that the original memorandum was made at the time, and that what he employed was an accurate copy of the original, it seemed to him that it might be used to refresh his memory.The Lord Chancellor
—In what month did the princess go from Rome to Sinigaglia? In the month of August.Lord Prudhoe.
—How long have you been in England? I arrived in May.Earl Grey
—You are understood to have said you usually reside at Rome? I have said so.Earl Grey
 said, the easiest and most simple way was, to call on the witness, and to ask him as to the nature of the paper he held in his hand. If it should appear that he made an entry at the time, and that the paper was a true and faithful copy of that memorandum, no doubt he could refresh his memory from it.Earl Grey
—Have you at any time observed, on the part of her royal highness, any conduct calculated to bring disgrace upon the character of this country? I believe I can answer decidedly not.Earl Grey
452 suggested, that part of the witness's evidence should be read from the Minutes, which was accordingly done.452The Earl of Harrowby
 did not think that the witness had yet stated that even the original was made at the time of the transaction to which it referred.The Earl of Harrowby
425—Did you ever hear the princess and countess Oldi converse together in French? I do not recollect it.425Earl of Harrowby
—Did the language of countess Oldi differ more from pure Italian than the English language spoken by some Scotch persons of education and family differ from pure English? I find it impossible from the small recollection I have, to answer that question.Lord Auckland
—Did you ever attend any others of the princess's suite at Naples during your stay there; besides Pergami? I did.Lord Redesdale
—Referring to the whole time, and to all the places in which you have stated you were attending upon her royal highness, did you ever observe any indecent, immodest, or improper behaviour in her royal highness? I did not.Lord Erskine
—During the whole time you were in her royal highness's service in the manner you have described to the House, did you ever observe any part of her royal highness's behaviour immodest or indecent, either regarding Pergami or any other man? Never, but always with much respect when he spoke to her royal highness.Lord Erskine.
 added, that if the witness were not allowed to refresh his memory, the counsel was bound to take it with its defects, but not to tax it as he had done.Lord Erskine
 objected to the mode of examination pursued by the learned counsel. If the witness were not allowed to refresh his recollection by his memoranda, it was unfair to tax his memory in the way attempted. All would probably he clear by reference to the paper in the hand of the witness.Lord Erskine
—A former witness has staled, that upon the same floor where the princess's room and yours and Pergami's rooms were, there was a place used as a water-closet; do you-recollect that place? I do not.Lord Grantham
 observed, that before the Summing-up of the counsel for the Queen, the counsel for the bill would be asked if they had any evidence to rebut the evidence for the defence. Then they would have a right to offer such evidence as they might be able to produce. The question now was, whether the particular individual should be called in when they arrived at the conclusion of the case, or forthwith. He was inclined to adopt the latter course.The Earl of Liverpool
460 did not know the nature of the questions intended to be put to the witness, but the House would remember, that her majesty's counsel had been allowed more than once to call a witness back; and if this had been granted to
460The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, he could form no opinion on the subject, because he had no adequate idea of the questions intended to be asked; but he thought it rested with the noble lord to say when the witness should be recalled. The questions to be put were not to be put from one side or the other, in this cause; but were to be put by a noble lord for the information of the Court. He, for his own part, thought the sooner the Court was put in possession of this information the better.The Earl of Donoughmore
 did not say, that the necessity of the case required the instant examination of the witness; he would only say, that it was, in his opinion, highly expedient that the particular witness alluded to should be examined without much delay. He then moved, that William Carrington should be ordered to attend to be examined at their lordships' bar this day.Lord Melville
461 of the royal navy, was called in, and farther cross-examined by Mr. Solicitor General, as follows:461Then Lieutenant John Flinn,
 interposed; and, after the witness had withdrawn, observed, that the solicitor-general had no right to assume that the witness had said he gave orders. When a witness was asked, whether he meant to say so and so, it was intended to be insinuated that he had said something like it; whereas the witness had said, that the captain generally gave the orders.Mr. Denman
 said, that it struck him the witness put a different construction on the terms navigating, management, and manœuvring the ship; and he conceived that the questions the witness had been asked had been put for the purpose of ascertaining what he meant by the words, "navigating the ship."The Lord Chancellor
463462—What do you mean by saying that you navigated the ship? By navigating the ship, such as directing the
463462Mr. Solicitor General.
 immediately ordered the windows to be thrown open, and said that he had heard with much surprise, yesterday, that some of the officers of the house had said it was by his wish the windows were kept shut. Now, he had never expressed any such wish, but was most anxious to have the ventilation of the house kept up as much as possible.The Lord Chancellor
464—Having told us in a former part of your examination, that Pasquali was not a servant of yours, and having now told us he was a servant of yours, which of these two stories do you mean to adhere to? I mean to adhere that he acted as both.464Mr. Solicitor General.
465 desired that the memorandum might be in the hands of the witness, to enable him to answer the questions, and not in the hands of the solicitor-general.465Mr. Brougham
seriatim, said, that the common use of a memorandum in a court of justice was, for a witness, by referring to it, to refresh his recollection from the contents. But his learned friend, instead of suffering the witness to do that which it was the proper and ordinary course to let him do, kept the document himself, and proceeded, seriatim,Mr. Brougham
 denied that this was in any degree a similar case to that in which their lordships had laid down the rule referred to by his learned friend. He also denied that he was questioning the witness, in the manner objected to, out of this document. He certainly looked into it, as he believed he was entitled to do, while the witness perused it in his hand. He had certainly a strict right to make use of it in this way.The Solicitor General
 said, certainly not, after their lordships had laid down a contrary rule on a former occasion, and decided that a different manner should be observed.Mr. Brougham
 said, that his learned friend was evidently blending together two different and distinct things. He was confounding the form of putting a paper as evidence, and merely using it to refresh a witness's memory.The Solicitor General
 said, that it was a very different thing to say that a paper should be put in as evidence, and that it should only be referred to for the purpose of refreshing a witness's memory. He thought it perfectly clear and incontrovertible that while a witness referred to a paper to refresh his memory, it was quite competent for the counsel who was conducting the examination also to look over the paper used by the witness.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that his objection was not to his learned friend's glancing over the paper as the witness referred to it, hut taking it altogether out of his hand, and using it for quite a different purpose than refreshing the witness's memory, the only thing for which it was produced.Mr. Denman
 said, the only reason he had for taking the paper out of the witness's hand was, because Mr. Gurney (the shorthand writer) was situated between him and the witness, and therefore he could not read it at such a distance. If the witness came next to him, then there would be no occasion to take the paper out of his hands.The Solicitor General
466 said, the House ought to consider, at first, whether they could receive this paper as evidence, if it were offered to them as such. He had some doubts
466The Earl of Lauderdale
 expressed a wish, that the witness, on being recalled, should say what log-book it was he had been referring to: or whether two log-books were kept—one for the ship, and the other for the witness's own use. The regular book always remained in the ship, for the use of the owners.Lord Colville
 begged to restate the general rule of evidence which he had before read, and which was to be found in Phillips's Law of Evidence. It was a general rule that a memorandum, to be efficacious according to the rules of evidence, must he shown to have been taken, at the time of the occurrence of the fact to which it alludes, by the person who is speaking of it; or else by some other person, under his examination and inspection, so as to check any incorrectness.The Lord Chancellor
Brougham.468467—Produce the paper again.Brougham.468467Mr. Solicitor General.
 then requested, that, before the witness was ordered to withdraw, he should be ordered to deposit the paper he had, with the clerk of the House.The Solicitor General
 objected to this application, and said, that he was entitled to see the paper before any thing was done with it: he had no copy of it, nor did he ever see it until now.Mr. Denman
 said, the paper ought to be deposited, whether his learned friend had seen it or not.The Attorney General
 hoped no insinuation was intended that he had seen this paper before this day at the bar. If such were intended, he must repel it in the manner it deserved [Cries of "Order" from the House.]Mr. Denman
 hoped, if their lordships suffered these insinuations to be flung out on one side, they would injustice allow them to be repelled on the other.Mr. Brougham
 said, that counsel must abide by the decision of the House, and not provoke unnecessary remarks.The Earl of Lauderdale
471470—You say, that you fitted up the princess's cabin, what was the length and width of the door? The doors might have been from three feet to three feet and a half wide: there were two divided.471470Lord Kingston.
476475l.l.l.474473472—On the subject of these memorandums, you say that these memorandums which you have had occasion to refer to in this House were taken by yourself out of a larger paper memorandum, which you say is not the log-book; have you been always in the habit of taking such memorandums? They were taken from my memorandums by my direction.476475l.l.l.474473472Earl of Donoughmore.
—Really, my lords, I cannot admit this question to be put. The noble lord has assumed that the witness stated he knew where this individual slept; whereas, on the contrary, he has declared over and over again, that he could not say where this person slept.Mr. Brougham.
457 rose to pall the attention
457Earl Grosvenor
458 said, if he took upon himself to reply to the noble earl, their lordships would allow him to say, that he did so because the proposition just submitted to their lordships in the present stage of the proceedings now in progress, appeared to him one of the most extraordinary steps he had ever witnessed. He would take the liberty to say, that when the learned counsel at the bar announced his determination to prosecute one of the witnesses in support of the bill, for perjury, he had gone further than he ought to have done in that stage of the proceedings. And to him it appeared that the noble earl had at present no right to talk of the probability of prosecutions for perjury being instituted against more than one of the witnesses. On that probability
458The Lord Chancellor
 wished it to be borne in mind, notwithstanding the impropriety which had been suggested to him by the noble and learned lord, that he had only stated an hypothetical case. He had stated, that there was an individual among the witnesses who had been threatened with prosecution, and that others might be prosecuted; and in this, as far as he might judge, from the evidence of his ears, he was fully borne out. He could not help thinking it a matter of considerable importance. It was said, that the step he had taken was extraordinary; that it was anticipating the conclusion; but their lordships would recollect, that in an earlier stage of the proceedings in this particular case, the learned lord on the woolsack had thought it right that the House should declare it would throw no impediment in the way of prosecution for perjury. This had taken place some weeks ago; yet they had been given to understand that this was the first time such a question had been agitated. Under the peculiar circumstances of the case, it might be desirable that a bill like that which he had suggested, should pass, in addition to the determination to which they had already come, not to interpose their powers to screen any individual from punishment.Earl Grosvenor
459 remarked, their lordships would surely see the mighty difference between laying down a rule for the purpose of obtaining true evidence, before any witness had been examined, and that of adopting a particular measure with respect to certain individuals pending the proceedings. The witnesses might have sworn falsely, for aught he knew; but on that he had no right to give
459The Lord Chancellor
 could not approve of the course which had been suggested by the noble earl, and thought, with the lord chancellor, that there was a vast difference between such a measure adopted at this stage of the proceedings, and a general rule laid down at their commencement, previous to the examination of a single witness.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he was persuaded their lordships would concur with him in thinking, that when a witness had been cross-examined, he ought not, except on strong grounds, to be subjected to a further examination. He was sorry to interrupt the course of the proceedings, but circumstances had come to his knowledge with respect to William Carrington, one of the witnesses examined on Saturday, which, in his judgment, made it highly important that that witness should be again brought to their lordships' bar, either immediately or as soon as the witness then under examination had retired. He thought it desirable that the counsel on both sides should be put in possession of the questions intended to be asked with little delay, that they might be prepared to address themselves to that part of the case. He should move that William Carrington do attend at their lordships' bar.Lord Melville
 was of opinion, that a fair latitude ought to be given to the counsel in offering their objections.Lord Foley
—Did you conceive your self entitled to alter, correct, or confirm the regular log-book of the ship? No.Earl of Balcarras
 was again called in, by order of the House, and further examined by their lordships as follows:Then William Carrington
493492491490—You stated to their lordships, when you were examined by the counsel who first examined you on Saturday last, that previously to having been in the service of sir William Gell, you had served in the navy, and in the capacity of a midshipman? Yes, with sir John Beresford.493492491490Lord Melville.
 said, it was nothing more than reasonable that they should allow counsel to interrupt any of their lordships, if he conceived that an improper question was asked of a witness. He apprehended that the learned counsel did mean to act on that principle. At the same time, he was sure, as other professional persons would be, that, in addressing their lordships (he said it without intending to give any body offence, and even if it did give offence, he still felt himself bound to state it), a different language should have been used. The language that had been resorted to in opposing a question was not exactly that which it ought to be. He was sure, however, at the same time, that the learned counsel meant nothing disrespectful.The Lord Chancellor
 thought the House was much obliged to the illustrious person in the gallery for the interruption he had occasioned: at the same time he would do justice to the learned counsel, who, he was convinced, had no intention to give offence to their lordships. He was quite sure that the learned counsel entertained no such intention. His conduct during the whole of this proceeding had been most correct and becoming. He agreed that the objection of the learned counsel would have been a proper objection, if he had stated his (lord Donoughmore's) question as he really put it.The Earl of Donoughmore
—Having sworn, on your direct examination, that you did not know where Pergami had slept on the voyage homeward, account how you are enabled to form at once a belief as to the negative, namely, where he did not sleep, that is, under the tent?Earl of Donoughmore.
479478 said, he could assure their lordships that he meant nothing offensive or disrespectful in the words that he had used, and which had recently been objected to. He believed their lordships would recollect that, of the 50 or 60 times during which it had been his painful duty to oppose particular questions, he had proceeded in the same way. He had adopted the shortest possible course, and stated, that he could not permit such and such questions to be put. He had, for the sake of brevity, dispensed with his ordinary phraseology, and adopted that language, which, he believed, had always been allowed to the managers of impeachments before that
479478Mr. Brougham
 objected to the question, for it assumed, that the witness had said he bad a strong or decided impression as to where Pergami did not sleep, while he had said no such thing. The witness had stated his reasons for believing that Pergami did not sleep under the tent, but he had said nothing about a Strong impression.Mr. Brougham
 remarked, that the question was irregular, inasmuch as it spoke of "appearing to entertain a strong impression;" the usual and proper way being to repeat the words which the witness had used, and to ask him for an explanation of those words. The question in its present shape could not be consistently put.The Lord Chancellor
480—You said something with respect to the fear of pirates, and of putting out the lights in consequence of that fear? I did.480Earl of Morton.
483482481—State to the house whether you do not think there would have been very great danger of the light in that binnacle being blown out, if it was left open in the manner you describe in the fore-part of it?—If it had been left entirely open, there would.483482481Lord Colville.
—You have said that you did not know where Pergami slept on-the return voyage from Jaffa; do you know where Hieronimus, or any other of the princess's suite, slept during that time? I know where Hieronimus slept.Earl Grosvenor.
484—When you said that your memorandum was written by your clerk, and afterwards copied by Schiavini, what did you mean; explain that? I explained that it was written by my dictating.484Lord Falmouth.
—When was that memorandum which you brought from Sicily destroyed? I do not remember the day.Earl of Lauderdale.
486—Can you swear that every time you looked into the tent you saw the princess"? Every time I looked into the tent at night, I did see her.486Marq. of Buckingham.
495—When you were last examined, you were asked what situation you had served in before you were on board the Poictiers as a midshipman, your answer was, "I have been at sea in the merchant service when I was a boy; then I lived on land, and got my livelihood in the best way I could." The next question is this, "You are to be understood that you were never in his majesty's service before?" to which the answer is, "no." Are you to be understood that you now swear that you considered that second question immediately following the first, which has just been read, to refer not to your service generally on board his majesty's ships, but to your service in a ship with sir John Beresford? I understood it to allude entirely to sir John Beresford, and to my service as a midshipman on board the Poictiers.495Lord Ellenborough.
 requested permission to put to the witness a question which had been accidentally omitted on his former examination; and he would state to their lordships the reason which led him to ask this indulgence. In consequence of the interruption occasioned by the discussion which had taken place on a preceding question, his learned friend, Dr. Lushington, who was examining the witness, had accidentally turned over that page of his brief at the bottom of which this question stood. The question would be found not only in his learned friend's brief, but in all the other five briefs; and he and his learned friends were ready to pledge their honour to the House that it was not a new point which had been suggested since the former examination of the witness. He therefore begged leave now to ask the witness, whether or not he did not know, of his own knowledge, that previous to her royal highness arriving at Naples, on the journey to Naples, William Austin slept in a room apart from her royal highness, at least more than once, he himself having made William Austin's bed on that occasion?Mr. Brougham
 begged to state to their lordships how this omission had occurred. At the conclusion of the questions, in his brief, stood this one; and preceding it was the business about Majoochi and Ompteda, which, their lordships would recollect, had given rise to a great deal of discussion. He had not forgot, in consequence of that discussion, that another question remained to be put; but, at the moment when he was about to refer to it, a different question was handed to him on a slip of paper, and that put the other out of his mind.Dr. Lushington
 said, it was customary to allow a counsel to put a question in such case, when he stated his readiness to pledge his word of honour that he had intended To put it on the examination in chief. [Hear, hear!]The Lord Chancellor
 added, on his word of honour, that the question was accidentally omitted by him when the witness was formerly examined.Dr. Lushington
502501500499498497Joseph Robert Hownam—When you made William Austin's bed, was it a single bed in the room, or was there another beds that room? There were generally beds belonging to the house in that room; but this was one bud his travelling bed.502501500499498497Joseph Robert HownamEarl of Lauderdalé.
—When you stated that you were perfectly clear in your own mind, that you left his majesty's service for no other reason than your own request; did you mean that you considered the request which appears to have been made by sir William Gell, to have been made by your autliority? By my authority, or by my wish.Marquis of Lansdown.
494—Upon your last examination you were asked, are you positively sure that from the time you joined the Poictiers you were rated midshipman? I said I did not know I was, I was midshipman when I left it, as I saw in my ticket.494Lord Colville.
 thought it might be the more convenient course to bring up the witness for further examination, when the remainder of the case had been gone through with.Earl Grey
 said, it was the duty of their lordships to abstain from replying to any extraneous remarks made by counsel on either side; but, when counsel appeared to them to exceed their line of duty, to interpose and stop the extraneous remarks, but not to do so by cries of "Order."Earl Grey
—Where were you born?Lord Exmouth.
 concurred in the opinion, that objections ought to be put in the most respectful manner.Lord Redesdale
—I think the counsel ought also to withdraw.The Duke of Clarence.
 said, he rose to order. It had been said by a noble earl, that when any thing irregular or improper occurred at the bar, no noble lord should cry "Order," but state what passed, and offer his objection to it. He would pursue this course. He conceived that the conduct of the learned counsel, a few minutes before, was not what it ought to be. He thought that the learned counsel had commenced an objection in a manner not suitable to the dignity of the House. He had stated, that "he could not permit a question to be put in a particular way." This is all I have to say. I do not wish to interrupt my noble friend, but I did not think the objection stated in a way suitable to the dignity of your lordships.The Duke of Clarence
489488487—How many years were you a midshipman? I do not know precisely, I believe from seven to eight years.489488487Duke of Clarence.
—You have said you had never been in any other ship in his majesty's service than the Poictiers? I understood with sir John Beresford.Duke of Clarence.
—I do not mean to say, and God forbid that I should, that we, who are not professional or learned lords, should not be stopped by counsel, either by those who support the allegations of the bill, or by those who appear for her majesty, if improper questions are demanded. The counsel are, undoubtedly, bound to do their duty. But I think it is the duty of this House to see, that due respect is paid to it; and that counsel, when they address your lordships, should state, in a proper and respectful manner, whether a question, in their opinion, should, or should not, be put.The Duke of Clarence.
 observed, that the counsel was stopped in the midst of his reasoning on the question, which he did not consider a just course of proceeding.The Earl of Albemarle
—Do you knew where captain Flinn slept, on the voyage from Jaffa to Capo d'Anza? He slept in his cabin, and I recollect some nights his having hung his cot upon deck.Earl of Liverpool.
 submitted, with great deference, that the question ought not to be put: He did not mean to object to the question itself, which was perfectly proper under other circumstances, but as the witness, from his situation as private secretary to her majesty might be in possession of confidential communications, and might know something respecting the written instruments between the buyer and seller which he ought not to be called upon to disclose, it would be better, as he conceived, to defer the question.Mr. Denman
 said, that he only wanted to know the fact whether the princess had bought the estate, and given it to Pergami.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that the witness might be asked whether an estate was purchased and conveyed, and if he staled that it was conveyed by writings, that the examination must there stop.The Lord Chancellor
—Do you know whether Pergami is in possession of the Barona? No, I do not, at this present moment.Earl of Liverpool.
539—Do you know where the countess Oldi and Victorine slept on the journey to Jerusalem? I think the countess Oldi had a tent of her own, but I do not know whether she slept there or not; of whether she slept under one of the tents with the chambermaids who were there, I do not know.539Marquis of Lansdown.
540—Upon those occasions, when you state that you believe Pergami slept under that tent, have you any reason to think that any third person, male or female, slept under that tent? I do not know.540Earl of Limerick.
 objected to the use made of the word. He observed, that if it was taken down in the Minutes, it might give a meaning to the former answer of the witness, different from that which he certainly intended. The inference might be, that he wished no comparison to be made between Mrs. Hownam and the illustrious person, and such an inference would be untrue.Mr. Brougham
541 said, he had made no comparison, He did not wish either to hurt the feelings of the witness, or to have any thing put in the Minutes that ought not to appear:541The Earl of Limerick
—We must not hear what was said by other persons.The Attorney General.
509508507506—I beg your pardon. This is a fact; and all that accompanies a fact is evidence.509508507506Mr. Brougham.
510 objected to the question. He apprehended that the declarations of her royal highness to the witness respecting Ompteda was not at all the matter in question, and could not be received in evidence. If all the directions which her royal highness gave to the witness were to be admitted in evidence, they would not know where to stop; because in that case, every thing that she had from time to time said to Mr.
510The Attorney General
 said, he apprehended that any directions given to the witness by her royal highness, and which were afterwards communicated to Ompteda, might be given in evidence. Suppose, said he, that we shall be able to prove, that Ompteda was requested never again to enter the house of her royal highness, we cannot prove that simple fact without first calling the attention of the witness to the directions to that effect which he received from her royal highness. I apprehend that these directions or commands may be legally given in evidence.Mr. Tindal
 suggested, that the regular course would be, first, to ask the witness whether he did such and such a tiling, and then whether he did it by her royal highness's directions.The Lord Chancellor
524523522521520519518517516515514513Mr. Attorney General.512511 directed the counsel, first to ask what he did, and then to ask the directions under which he did it.524523522521520519518517516515514513Mr. Attorney General.512511The Lord Chancellor
525 objected to this question, as it assumed that to walk arm in arm was the usual practice of the princess and Pergami, and that this was admitted by the witness, which was not the fact. He should have no objection to the question, if put in a general way, without any assumption as to what was their usual way of walking.525Mr. Brougham
 said, that he was not aware of any assumption. He meant merely to ask, if the witness saw the princess and Pergami walking arm in arm; whether, from the usual way of walking so, that would make any impression upon him?The Attorney General
 observed, that in cross-examination he was entitled to put leading questions.The Attorney General
526 said, there could be no objection to the question, if put in another shape, and free from the words assumed to be in evidence. The question might be so varied in terms as to obviate any objection, and to convey the same meaning. Counsel might ask, whether it was so usual, that it would have made no impression upon the mind of the witness if he had seen it.526The Lord Chancellor
527 said, he did not interpose here for the purpose of objecting to the question, but merely that their lordships might make a note in their own minds, that he did not object to it, although he certainly had a right. He had not, however, the slightest objection to this question, and a thousand others to the same purpose; he was, on the contrary, only sorry that he had not put them himself.527Mr. Brougham
534Tindal.533532531530529528 submitted, that the witness must not be taken to have stated that he had been at Scharnitz, but at the barrier town between the Austrian Tyrol and Bavaria.534Tindal.533532531530529528Mr. Brougham
 was astonished to hear such a question from his learned friend. He was astonished to hear him say, "Do you believe he was dressed?" to his own witness; and apprehended the question could not be put.The Solicitor General
 was no less astonished at the objection of the Solicitor-General.Mr. Tindal
535 thought that, under the circumstances of the case, the question could nut be put.535The Lord Chancellor
 requested leave to put one question that he ought to have put on the examination in chief.Mr. Tindal
 would be glad to learn how that question could possibly apply, in a re-examination? It did not apply.The Attorney General
536 contended, that it did apply, and very minutely. The object of it might be to know whether the witness had ever been
536Mr. Brougham
—Was that person the sailor that was on board the ship? Yes, he was.Lord Chancellor.
537—You have stated, that you sometimes saw the princess at breakfast at Genoa, did you see her royal highness frequently at breakfast? Only once is impressed upon my memory.537Earl of Rosebery.
—When you stated that you thought it necessary some persons should sleep near her royal highness on deck, did you mean that you thought it necessary some male attendant should sleep near her royal highness? I meant that.Earl Grey.
 said, the objection urged by the learned counsel, on the other side, would still apply to the form in which the attorney-general purposed to put the question; for this question assumed, that it was the usual practice of the princess and Pergami to walk arm in arm.Earl Grey
 requested, that Mr. Gurney would have the goodness to read over each question and the answer when it was given, before another question was put.The Lord Chancellor
 would say nothing which could be construed into a desire to have a different direction given than that pointed out by the learned lord on the woolsack; but still he must say, that if the short-hand writer were ordered to pursue this course, it would have the certain tendency to destroy the main effect of cross-examination.The Earl of Lauderdale
572 was called in, and having been sworn, was examined as follows by Mr. Williams, through the interpretation of the Marchese di Spineto.572Then Giuseppe Giarolini
 objected to the question, and asked, to what part of the evidence of Restelli it was meant to be applied?The Solicitor General
Solicitor General said, he referred to pages 226, 234, and 441 of the printed Minutes, The Solicitor GeneralMr. Williams
—I am about to establish a contradiction in Restelli's evidence. He applied to witness to come over here and give evidence, and tendered him money, or an equivalent for money for his evidence.Mr. Williams
—Unless that be distinctly referred to in the former examination of Restelli, I shall certainly object to this question.The Solicitor General
 said, he was about to apply his questions particularly to those parts of Restelli's evidence which were contained in pages 226, 234, and 441 of the Minutes. He was about to establish the fact, that Restelli had come here to give evidence on an offer of money or some equivalent. He would go further, and show, that Restelli himself had been employed by the Milan Commission to collect evidence against her majesty, and they would find, in page 226, an admission that he had actually sent over a witness, Raggazoni. Their lordships would there find that Restelli told him he must go to Milan to be examined, as the government wanted him.Mr. Williams
 asked whether that was not on the cross-examination?The Lord Chancellor
574† Ibid, p. 1102.** said it was, and then referred them to page 234, in which the witness, Mejani, stated that Restelli was the person who told him he must come to England. He next adverted to page 411, containing the point of Restelli's evidence which he was prepared to contradict. Restelli had then denied that he offered money to the witness. But their lordships would recollect, that this was not a common case in which the strictness of legal rules ought to be enforced. They had not the same opportunity, as in other cases, of inquiring what was done by the civil agent. In the courts below there were alwa3's two parties; but that was not the case here. The Queen was certainly in attendance, but it was not ascertained
574† Ibid, p. 1102.**Mr. Williams
* observed, that it was then so near four o'clock, that they could not bring the argument to a conclusion; but he would beg to call the attention of the counsel on both sides to page 412, from which it appeared, that Restelli, on being asked whether he had offered any body money for coming here as a witness, answered that he had not.*The Lord Chancellor
 stated, that there were two grounds of objection; first his agency, and, secondly, the contradiction of his evidence.Mr. Brougham
 said, that Restelli having denied that he had offered money to any one, if his learned friends, had any witness to produce who could prove that he had, no objection would be made to the production of such evidence.The Solicitor General
—Do you know where it was that the princess took her bath on board the polacre, what cabin, or where? I never saw her royal highness take a bath on board, consequently I cannot tell.Lord Walsingham.
—You have stated, that you were with her royal highness at Trieste, can you speak from your own knowledge, whether after the time you joined her royal highness in Italy, she ever was at Trieste, except upon the occasion you have referred to? Never.Earl of Carnarton.
543—Were you in the princess service before Pergami? I was not.543Lord Kingston.
—You are understood to have said, in answer to a question put in the latter part of your examination, that there was no mystery or concealment whatever in Pergami's sleeping underneath the same tent with her royal highness on board the polacre; on other occasions, when Pergami may have slept near her royal highness during that journey, was there any mystery or concealment of any kind? None whatever.Earl of Darnley.
—I will just ask your lordships how this can be evidence?The Earl of Lauderdale.
 could not conceive how the question could apply in any way to the inquiry before their lordships.The Lord Chancellor
544 General submitted an objection to the question.544Mr. Attorney
 objected to the question; and it and the answer were struck out of the Minutes.The Lord Chancellor
—What was the distance from the steerage to the tent? They are upon separate decks, the steerage of the vessel is underneath.Lord De Dunstanville.
—Have you any reason to believe, that after the violent attack made on her royal highness's house at Genoa, or from any circumstance preceding your calling out baron Ompteda, or from any other circumstances at that time, her royal highness entertained any particular apprehensions with regard to her personal safety? She did, because she has mentioned it to me.Earl Grosvenor.
 complained of an objection being stated, not only after a question had been answered, but after another and another after that had been disposed of, and regularly taken down by the shorthand writer. Why did not his noble friend rise in the first instance, to move, that the first of the questions should be struck out? He thought it would save much time if it were made a rule that no question should be objected to but at the time of its being put; and that after another question had been asked, they ought not to go back to take into their consideration what had previously been put on their Minutes; for if they did so, there was no saying how far they might go back. Such inquiries would be interminable, and must add still more to that intolerable loss of time, which was already the subject of just complaint.Lord Holland
 said, it was undoubtedly important, that objections to questions should be offered as soon as possible; but it might so happen, that a final answer might be of so objectionable a nature as to render it necessary to expunge from the Minutes the questions and answers that led to it. The witness was asked, Did he know of any acts or circumstances that caused a particular result? and he answered, That he had derived his knowledge from the confession of a servant. The fair interpretation of this was, that the witness was present at a statement made by that servant to another person; but whether this confession had one word of truth in it was not proved. The declaration of the witness might, therefore, under these circumstances, be considered as a direct assertion, that, in fact, he knew nothing of those circumstances. The name of the servant was required; and it was stated: if, therefore, he was not present to speak to the facts, the whole must fall to the ground.The Lord Chancellor
 said, it did not appear to him that the question and answer ought to stand; for that could not be received as evidence which had nothing to do with the case, but which related merely to a private quarrel between the witness and baron Ompteda. He was so far from thinking this ought to be received as evidence, that he was of opinion the whole ought to be expunged.The Marquis of Buckingham
 thought it important, to inquire into the circumstances connected with the quarrel between the witness and the baron Ompteda, as the evidence given on these points would go to affect materially the testimony of a most important witness, Theodore Majoochi. He did not know why their lordships should be precluded from any allusion to those circumstances. He did not see that if the question were put—" Did you see any, and what servant kneeling before her royal highness? "—there could be any possible objection to its being answered.The Earl of Carnarvon
548—With whom did this person, Maurice Credi, live; whose servant was he? He was the servant of her royal highness the princess of Wales.548Marquis of Downshire.
 caused the last question to be read. He then objected to it, as referring to a matter not connected with the case.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, he was sure that the cause which induced this gentleman to call out baron Ompteda had nothing to do with the issue their lordships had to try.The Lord Chancellor
 was of opinion that he had a right to put the question.The Marquis of Downshire
—of course the noble marquis will not suppose that I would have the presumption to say, that he has no right to put any particular question; but I should not do my duty in this House if I did not declare, plainly and directly, that I think the question cannot legally be put.The Lord Chancellor.
 was aware that their lordships were not shackled by the ordinary rules of evidence; but he believed there was scarcely a case in modern times, in the progress of which the peers had not imposed that restriction on themselves; and in this instance, the practice had been followed to the present moment. Now, he would throw it out for the consideration of their lordships, what a sea of difficulties they would have to encounter, if, having adopted that course, they should suddenly abandon it, and claim the right of putting any sort of questions they pleased.The Earl of Liverpool
—Did any facts to your knowledge occur at the princess's residence, that occasioned the quarrel between you and baron Ompteda? By the confession of a servant; I saw the servant on his knees begging pardon for his crime.Marquis of Downshire.
 was of opinion this could not with propriety be received as evidence. He requested, that the two last questions and answers might be read over, which was accordingly done. His lordship then submitted, that the statement that the witness had seen the servant kneeling to make a confession ought not to stand on the Minutes.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, it was perfectly true, that nothing of what had been confessed by the servant had been conveyed to the mind, by the answer alone; but coupled with the question, it was clear that certain circumstances had been brought to the knowledge of the witness by the confession of the servant. A hundred such answers would give the House no' information of facts known by the witness of his own knowledge. It was on the question and answer conjoined, that he founded his objection.The Earl of Lauderdale
549Downshire. was willing to withdraw the question, which he had put, because it had not been asked by any other peer. He still wished, however, to elicit the fact by some other means.549Downshire.The Marquis of Devonshire
—When you saw this man upon his knees to her royal highness, did you hear her make any reply to his question of asking forgiveness? She forgave him.Earl of Rosebery.
—You have stated, that you have seen her royal highness walking arm in arm with Pergami at the Villa d'Este, was she then with Pergami only? Walking arm in arm in the garden.Viscount Falmouth.
—Did the baron Ompteda dine at the princess's table at Milan? I think he did.Lord Hood.
550—You have said, that you considered it necessary, in the situation of the princess of Wales on hoard the polacre, that a male attendant should sleep near her; did you ever express that sentiment to the princess of Wales herself? I never did.550Duke of Athol.
556555554553—You say, that when you saw captain Briggs at Portsmouth, he declined having any conversation with you I upon the subject of this inquiry; did you I propose any such conversation to him? The object of my going to Portsmouth was that; it was from myself.556555554553Lord Ellenborough.
—You have said, that you went up the ladder at a late hour of the night, what do you mean by the term late, how late was it? Between the space after supper, and the ordinary time for closing the tent on deck; I have said, I believe, ten o'clock, but I maybe out half an hour, or even an hour, I cannot be positive.Earl of Winchelsea.
557—Do you mean that you recollect her royal highness's legs being swelled? I never saw her royal highness's legs.557Earl of Lauderdale.
—My lords, I object to questions assuming the very reverse of what the witness has answered. The witness is asked, "How did you select the passages you read?" although he had said that no passage had been selected or pointed out. He is again asked, "you have then read the whole?" although he had said, that he had read only a part.Mr. Brougham.
—I object to the word "select" being entered as part of a question to the witness, for he had not said that he had selected the passages he read.The Marquis of Lansdown.
 rose to explain, when the witness was ordered to withdraw. The witness said, he had partially read Sacchi's evidence, but not all. What was the inference but that there was part he had read, and part he had not? Now, how could this happen if part had not been pointed out to him for reading?The Earl of Lauderdale
—I have read a paper partially this morning, and yet I have selected no part of it [Hear, hear, hear!].The Marquis of Lansdown.
559558—Are you a knight of the order of St. Caroline? I am.559558Earl of Lauderdale.
—A lieutenant in his majesty's navy is asked if he ever waited at table!Mr. Brougham.
—Mr. Brougham, object to the question if you think it improper, but you are not to make such observations if a question offends you.The Lord Chancellor.
560—Who is Dr. Mocatti? He is professor of physic at Como, and I believe president of the college.560Earl of Lauderdale.
561—When you state that you
561Lord Calthorpe.
562—Do you know that the duke and duchess of Torlonia have dined at any time with her royal highness? I think they have. Do you know whether the nephew of the duchess of Torlonia, Carlo Forti, waited at that time at table? It is the first time I have ever heard that Carlo Forti was nephew to the duchess of Torlonia.562Earl Grosvenor
—Did not the swell of the sea occasionally make female attendance absolutely impossible? When there was any sea, that the vessel was in motion, the female attendants were as helpless, if I may use the term, as her royal highness herself.Lord Balcarras
—After the sea struck the tent, were the hatches closed? I think they were.Earl of Rosebery
564Parke esq. was called in, and having been sworn, was examined as follows by Mr. Denman.564ParkeThen Granville Sharps
569568567Parke566Interpreter565 was called in, and having been sworn, was examined as follows by Dr. Lushington, through the interpretation of the Marchese di Spineto.569568567Parke566Interpreter565Then Santino Gugiari
Interpreter.570—Are there any other columns in the grotto than those you have described? There were.Interpreter.570Earl Grosvenor
—Can you say how far that pilaster was from the statues of Adam and Eve? If I could see the plan which I have drawn, I could show the thing better.Earl Grosvenor
—What plan do you mean?Earl of Lauderdale
—Is that plan made by yourself? It is.Earl Grosvenor
—When was this plan made? About an hour, perhaps half an hour, before I came here.Mr. Parke
571—Is it, as far as you can recollect, a correct plan of the rooms? It is.571Earl Grosvenor
—Was there a companion to the hatchway? There was not.Earl of Mansfield.
—Had those statues of Adam and Eve any fig leaves round them? It represented a vine leaf, which was made of tin, and was painted green.Earl of Blesington
542 begged to take that opportunity of remarking, that a complaint had gone forth, that the rapid manner in which questions were put one after another to the witnesses, was calculated to produce confusion, and to induce a witness to commit inaccuracy, from the necessity of answering as quick as the questions were put. He therefore suggested, for the purpose of obviating any possible inconvenience of this kind, that the short-hand writer
542The Earl of Blesington
563—You have stated, that the first time you saw Pergami dine with the princess of Wales in his courier's dress, you do not recollect where he sat; will you swear he did not sit next to her royal highness? I do not recollect the circumstance, I have said so before.563Duke of Richmond
—A person very naturally reads one passage, and then passes over the rest of the same subject. Is that selection?Earl Grey.
—Have you ever seen the tent so closed during the day, that any part of the crew passing might not have seen who were within? No, I never did.Earl Grey.
 thought, that on this, as well as on many other occasions, much time was unnecessarily lost. If the answer complained of, stated what had been confessed by the servant, the objection would be a good one; but he could see no objection to that answer remaining on the Minutes, which merely stated what the witness knew, of his own knowledge, that he had seen a servant kneeling before her royal highness, and that the name of that servant was Maurice Credi.Earl Grey
546 would agree with his noble friend, that the answer referred to could
546Earl Grey
 thought their lordships ought to confine themselves as much as possible to the rules of law that prevailed in the Courts below; and, having so long adopted that principle, he conceived it would not be right to depart from it, except on some very important occasion. He did not understand that his noble friend was going to press this question, which, under the circumstances of the case, could not, in his opinion, be put. To make it a legal question, the case of baron Ompteda must be connected with that into which they were authorised to inquire.Earl Grey
 quite agreed with the noble earl, that it would impair the effect of cross-examination; but still, if witnesses were unable to speak so audibly as that the House could hear them, what else was to be done? Unless the short-hand-writer were to read the answers, he, for one, must say that he would lose nine answers out of ten. The witnesses must be heard, and it was better their answers should be repeated by the short-hand-writer, than remain unknown to many of their lordships.Earl Grey
—Did you write your own challenge to baron Ompteda? I did.Lord Auckland.
—Was not the princess, in fact, extremely fatigued by her voyage from Jaffa to Syracuse, arid extremely impatient to get ashore; and did she not complain, her legs being swelled, as a person who had not been a bed? I perfectly recollect the fact.Lord Clifden.
—Yow have stated, that, on account of the rolling of the ship, as well as for the protection of her royal highness, it was necessary to have somebody in the tent with her; would not yourself or Mr. Flinn, or any seafaring person, have answered that purpose better than a landsman, if it was on account of the rolling of the ship? I should imagine if that was the only cause, certainly a seafaring man would be most capable of rendering assistance.Lord Combermere.
 observed, that he did not find it necessary now to put the questions to this witness that he intended yesterday; in fact, they had been answered in the course of yesterday, when put by others in a different form.Lord Erskine
551—You have said, that at Carlsruhe the princess dined with the grand duke, except one day that she dined with the Margravine; did you dine in company with her royal highness on those occasions? I did.551Lord Grantham.
—Early in your examination yesterday you entered into the minute circumstances of your father, was your father ever in the service of any other person than the royal family? I can only speak from report, I believe he has been in the service of lady Charlotte Finch in his late majesty's household.Duke of Clarence.
552—Your attention is directed to the time when Pergami, Camera, and Teodoro, took leave of her royal highness on disembarking at Terracina; you mentioned that they, each of them, kissed her hand; do you know that Pergami had not taken leave of her royal highness before coming on deck? I do not know that he had; I have not an idea of it.552Earl of Darlington
575** was called in, and further examined, as follows, by Mr. Williams, through the interpretation of the Marchese di Spineto.575**Then Giuseppe Giarolini
 General submitted whether this conversation between the witness and Restelli could be given in evidence.Mr. Solicitor
 submitted, whether, in that view, it would not have been proper, as on a former occasion, to have asked Restelli when under examination, whether he had ever said any thing about money in a conversation with this particular witness. Surely his recollection should have been precisely called to a conversation with this man, before the latter's testimony could be received in contradiction. This, indeed, was necessary, to enable the House to judge of the conflicting testimony. Restelli's answer stood quite general, and without the explanation that might have accompanied and elucidated it, if his recollection had been called to the precise occurrence. The printed evidence was regularly transmitted to Italy, and the witnesses who now came over had an opportunity of seeing it. They had, therefore, the advantage which must necessarily arise from being put in possession of that information. He repeated, that Restelli ought to be asked particularly, whether he conversed with this man, before the latter's contradictory evidence could be received against him, as otherwise, the proceeding would be most awkward, while it would serve to establish a precedent peculiarly dangerous to the character of a witness.The Solicitor General
 denied the force of this argument, and said, that he was only seeking to get at a fact, which he had a right to do in his own way. He could see nothing awkward in the proceeding, except that of getting out the fact that Restelli had offered money to this witness.Mr. Williams
—You may get at the fact, without asking the whole conversation.The Lord Chancellor.
—I ask the witness, whether Restelli, in the conversation with him, suggested any mode of his getting payment of the balance of the debt due to him by her royal highness?Mr. Williams.
—Cannot you ask him, whether Restelli made him any offer of money?The Lord Chancellor.
—Or money's worth.Mr. Williams.
—Yes, that is the same thing.The Lord Chancellor
 thought the witness ought to be examined to a particular fact, and not generally. The counsel for the defence inquired generally, whether Restelli had proposed to this witness that he should go to Milan. The noble and learned lord had said, it might be asked whether Restelli had "offered any money," or "money's worth," but the learned counsel would go on to whether Restelli had given any direction to the witness relative to the way in which he should seek payment of his bill.The Earl of Lauderdale
 considered that the question, whether Restelli had offered money, or money's worth? might be put, as it appeared, upon reference to the evidence, p. 412, that Restelli denied his having made an offer of money to any body to become a witness in this cause.The Lord Chancellor
 proposed to ask the witness, whether Restelli had made any offer of money, or money's worth, or any advantage?Mr. Williams
577 recommended, rather, that the witness should be first asked, whether Restelli had ever offered him any money, and, the answer to that question being obtained, Mr. Williams might then state any further question as to any offer of advantage, upon the propriety of putting which, it would be for the House to decide.577The Lord Chancellor
 objected to this question, as being decidedly contrary to the established rules of evidence.The Solicitor General
578 begged, before their lordships decided upon this question, that he might be allowed to offer a few words for their consideration. In the first place, he felt it necessary to refer to the evidence, with respect to Restelli's general agency. At page 411, it would be found that Restelli had been asked—"Did you not become a very active agent of the Milan commission? To this the answer he returned ran as follows:—"I was not an agent; they have given me orders only as a courier (which is my profession), and as courier I have travelled."—Hence it appeared that Restelli denied that he was the agent to the Milan commission, or what amounted to the same thing. The evidence which the counsel for the defence would now submit to their lordships, would go to show what this same Restelli had stated to the witness, what he had done in the collection of witnesses, in bringing persons before the Milan commission to be examined, and in making other arrangements for collecting persons who were to be examined in this cause. It was therefore intended to call on the witness to state the names of several persons with whom Restelli had described himself to have been active in offering various sums of money and other inducements to prevail upon them to give evidence. On this ground, he apprehended their lordships would not refuse to permit him to examine the witness as he had proposed to do; but, in addition to this, there were several facts that appeared on the Minutes to which he proposed to refer their lordships.—If their lordships would refer to page 226, to page 234, and to page 411, in each of these it would be found, that facts were stated which went to prove the active interference of Restelli
578Mr. Williams
ex concessis,579 observed, that his learned friend, Mr. Williams, had so fully explained his view of the case, that little remained for him to say. They wished to offer the evidence in question first, as a contradiction to part of Restelli's evidence, they having obtained from Restelli a denial that he was the agent of the Milan commission, and a declaration that he was only employed as a courier. They proposed to negative this, by proving that he had stated to the present witness, that he had performed duties which had nothing to do with the office of a courier. If they had known that Restelli was to have been called, instead of being igno-
ex concessis,579Mr. Brougham
581580 said, his learned friends on the opposite side had argued that they had aright to have the question which had been objected to, answered, on
581580Mr. Solicitor General
 begged he might be allowed to say, that his observations upon the difficulty in point of time, referred to the refusal of a list of witnesses. It was that denial which deprived her majesty's counsel of the means of examining Restelli upon this point before.Mr. Brougham
 said, they might have availed themselves of the permission given them by their lordships, to postpone the cross-examination until they were enabled to enter into it effectually.Mr. Solicitor General
583582 said, that their lordships had evidence before them, that Restelli had denied on oath, what was proved to have been done by him. If, then, he had intermeddled—he would not use a stronger word at present—but if he had intermeddled in getting evidence against her majesty, the counsel had a right to inquire into that fact, and it was most important for their lordships. He attended there, from day to day, to do all in his power that the strict rules of law might be attended to as far as, in the situation in which they were placed, their proceedings could be assimilated to ordinary proceedings: but it was essentially necessary that all the light should be let in upon this dark transaction which they could let in. He lamented exceedingly that in this transaction they were at the present moment so much in the dark as to the Milan commission. He
583582Lord Erskine
 rose, not to give any opinion upon the question immediately before the House, but to say, that the Milan commission—that was, the gentlemen at the head of it, or rather the gentleman at the head, might be called to the bar. No objection would be made to his being called and examined at their lordships' bar at present, or, in any stage of the proceeding, that might be thought most convenient. This was all he had to observe upon this subject. No objection whatever would be made to giving to their lordships the whole history of the Milan commission.The Earl of Liverpool
585584 said, that it was impossible for any man who felt as all their lordships ought to feel, to doubt that, after what had passed, the gentlemen of the Milan commission ought to have an opportunity of explaining their Conduct. It was not consistent for him to make any observation on the evidence before them, as establishing or contradicting any former evidence; for all the evidence would come to be considered hereafter: but it was not consistent with his duty to give any character, good or bad, to any witness. As to the present difficulty, he would say that it did not at all follow, that, because the answer might prove nothing, therefore the question ought not to be put. To be sure, the legal weight depended on the answer; and so it would be here. If the agent had thought fit to exceed his powers, that would not be the act of his principal; but it might be proper to inquire into it, for other purposes. If the allegation were, that he had offered money, and ten persons should say, that he had done so, the mere fact of having offered money would not become the act of his principals. But if they should say, that he had offered no money, and it should be proved that he had acted as an agent, the principals were not thereby proved to be implicated. Still the question was to be put, and they must take the answer;
585584The Lord Chancellor
 said, that, let the commissioners be righteous as righteous could be, the witnesses might have been corrupted, and that was equally fatal to the inquiry in this case.Lord Erskine
586 said, that if the charge which had appeared in evidence against the agent were substantiated, their lordships ought not to proceed a step further; but it would become their bounden duty at once to put a stop to this odious, detested, and infamous bill. Their lordships ought not to proceed a single step till they ascertained the nature and character of the agency of Restelli, which, from what had already appeared in evidence, was calculated to throw discredit upon all the witnesses who had been brought forward in support of this proceeding. If the corrupt agency of Restelli were proved, he felt persuaded, that there did not exist one of their lordships who would not say, that they should at once rescue the country from this, the greatest curse that the folly and infatuation of ministers had ever inflicted upon it. Ministers were deeply responsible for putting the security—the existence—of our most valuable institutions, upon the issue of a proceeding, as odious in principle, as it was pregnant with danger to the country; they had done all that in them lay, to bring into contempt and disgrace every institution which the country held sacred, and upon which its future prosperity depended; but if the bribery imputed to Restelli, if the corrupt agency of Restelli, were proved, he believed even ministers themselves would not venture to go on, and sign the death-warrant of the British constitution. He could not consider the question as a dry question of
586The Earl of Carnarvon
587 thought it necessary to call their lordships' attention to the observations which had just fallen from his noble friend. Upon a dry question, as to the admissibility of evidence, upon which the noble and learned lord had delivered, as he always did, a noble and learned opinion as a lawyer, his noble friend had thought proper to interpose with such a speech as, he believed, had never been heard before upon such an occasion. His noble friend had interposed, as if something particular had occurred in the debate, calling upon him for the display of so much angry feeling; and when the only question before their
587The Earl of Donoughmore
592591590Mr. Solicitor General.589588 explained. His noble friend had entirely mistaken the scope of his observations. What he had urged to their lordships was, that a charge of bribery having been established by the evidence of one person, against an agent connected with the Milan Commission, they ought to suspend all further investigation, till that question was determined, and that if the charge of corrupt agency were proved, it would become their bounden duty to put a stop to the proceeding.592591590Mr. Solicitor General.589588The Earl of Carnarvon
Williams.593 (whilst the answer was being interpreted.) He has added, "They did not offer it to me."Williams.593Mr. Cohen
Interpreter. General requested to ask a question of the interpreter, whether pilaster meant a flat column with a capital and a base?Interpreter.Mr. Solicitor
595Interpreter.594—Do you recollect any
595Interpreter.594Lord Ellenborough.
—Could a person standing near or behind the pilaster in the grotto, see the statues of Adam and Eve? It appears to me impossible, but I have made not the observation, but as the room is round, and the statues are by the side, I should think that a person behind the pilaster cannot see them.Earl of De Lawarr.
596—Have you, since you have
596Earl Grosvenor.
—You have said that Restelli told you certain witnesses were paid some forty and some fifty francs a piece, and that they continued at Milan for seven days, were those sums paid for the whole time they were at Milan, or was it a daily payment? Once only.Lord De Dunstanville.
597—What was the amount of the last payment you received from her royal highness the princess of Wales? The half, with the interest, which she paid me.597Earl of Lauderdale.
 begged leave to submit, that this question went to open a new case, and not that opened by the attorney-general. He begged to be understood as not objecting to such a course, but merely reminding their lordships, that if they entered into it, and that any thing were said which he might have occasion to answer, he should perhaps have to claim a delay of five or six weeks to bring over witnesses to meet this new case. After answering the case already brought forward, he must really ask for delay if another public prosecutor was to start up with a new case.Mr. Brougham
 contended, that it was competent for any peer to call any witness, during any part of the prosecution, and ask him any question he pleased respecting the conduct of her majesty, and any or every part of that conduct.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, he thought it quite clear that the limits put upon the forms of examination to be observed by counsel did not in any degree restrict the right of any peer to put such questions to any witness as he thought fit, at any period of this inquiry.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that it was competent for any peer to do that, without being called a public prosecutor.The Earl of Lauderdale
 remarked, that he was interrupted yesterday, and by the very noble earl who spoke last, in a material part of a course of examination, which he thought, if he bad pursued it further, would operate rather favourable for the interest of one of the parties in this case—the accused. He had yielded to that interruption, and refrained from pressing his questions to the witness. Their lordships, on this occasion, should recollect that they had taken upon themselves the anomalous functions of judges, jurors, and legislators. He had always understoodit to be the duty of a judge or a juror to lean to the side of mercy, and in favour of the accused. Keeping in mind this understanding, he could not refrain from taking this opportunity of remarking, that, notwithstanding what had been said by some of their lordships, of dignity and decency, of which he had heard so much, there were some to be found who appeared—instead of being impartial judges, and disposed to lean to the side of mercy—to have feelings of an opposite character.The Earl of Damley
 condemned the introduction of irrelevant remarks, calculated to lead to altercation.Lord De Dunstanville
 resumed, and said that he did not mean to accuse any particular noble lord of partiality; but most certainly, generally speaking, he was sorry to find a disposition now and then manifested, which did not, in his judgment, appear calculated to sustain their lordships dignity and impartiality. For his own part, he was determined to discharge his duty fairly and impartially, with a proper disposition to lean to the side of mercy, the propriety of which he hoped others would feel as strongly as he did in the discharge of his duty, though he was astonished to find some of them did not.The Earl of Darnley
 complained, that the concluding assertion of the noble earl was as strong as that with which he had set out. Now he hoped that he should be found to act as impartially in the discharge of his duty, as the noble earl. He was very sorry that any thing should have occurred at any period of the investigation to induce the noble earl to make the remark which he had made; but he must say, that it applied, if at all, as much to the opposite side of the House as to his side indeed more.Lord Redesdale
—"Pudet hæc opprobria nobis Et dici potuisse et non potuisse refelli."600 was as anxious as any body to see their lordships abstain from altercation. He begged the learned lord would not take their defence under his charge; for, if his mode of defending the House against the charge of partiality was by imputing to his opponents unfair, unjust, and illiberal proceedings, it was the most unfortunate defence against partiality that he had ever listened to. It was wrong, he well knew, to impute improper motives to any noble lord; but he hoped they would not feel hurt at an observation which he was going to make—namely, that both parties were as partial as they possibly could be. Nobody could doubt that any noble lord possessed the right of calling up any witness, who could, either directly or indirectly, give testimony respecting the bill. Neither could any body doubt that to such a witness any question could be put by them, even though in its nature it were not strictly legal. But his noble friend (lord Lauderdale) had been the first to take objections against evidence which was not so, and the thanks of the House were due to him for so doing. And therefore any party, or any of their lordships, had a right to object to the putting of questions leading to a new inquiry. In point of candour and substantial justice, which was their proper guide on this occasion, if any of their lordships thought that he could bring forward evidence calculated to elucidate any circumstance, either on behalf of, or against the Bill, which had not been brought forward by counsel, it was fitting that such circumstance should be stated to the House; and afterwards inquired into; bin if a new inquiry were proposed, then their lordships ought to pause, and to consider whether they ought not to instruct the attorney-general to institute it, because it would be a fundamental violation of justice, that the judges, after the evidence was closed, should examine fresh evidence themselves, without allowing the parties to the Bill to enter into a cross-examination of it. He did not mean to dispute the right of his noble friend to put the question which he had asked; but he thought he ought, in candour, to have informed the House, that he had new matter to introduce, and to have asked their lordships leave to introduce it. He could wish his noble friend to withdraw the question altogether; but if he would not consent to do that, then counsel should have a right to cross-examine upon it,
—"Pudet hæc opprobria nobis Et dici potuisse et non potuisse refelli."600Lord Holland
 thought that his noble friend had known him long enough to be convinced that he was the last man in the world to feel hurt in the smallest degree by any thing that could be said or done towards him. He was himself in the habit of using strong expressions, and therefore made allowance for others who used them. There was one thing that made him indifferent to what was said of him; namely, the feeling that he was doing what was right. That feeling he had always enjoyed during the course of his life, and nevermore than during the present proceedings.The Earl of Lauderdale
Williams.601 in explanation, said, he did not mean to use the term harshly. Strictly speaking, the noble earl who brought down the papers on which the proceedings were founded, was the prosecutor. But no one, not even the most fastidious person, could find fault with the conduct of that noble earl during the whole of these proceedings. What he meant to say was, that he had noticed, during these proceedings, rather an over-zeal in the cause of an airy personage in this case—a person who was not here nor there—who was known to nobody, and yet who existed somewhere. If their lordships indulged in any such zeal, it would be impossible to discharge the high and important duty imposed on them with impartiality.Williams.601The Earl of Darnley,
 desired to know whether Restelli was forthcoming.Mr. Brougham
 desired to know whether the counsel of her majesty wished to examine him as a witness.Mr. Attorney General
 stated, that he did wish to call Restelli; but that he was not in his corporal possession.Mr. Brougham
 submitted, that if the attorney general of the Queen wished to call Restelli as a witness, he must take the usual steps.Mr. Attorney General
 answered, that he had been sent as a courier to Milan.Mr. Attorney General
—Then he has been sent as a courier or agent to the Milan Commission. I therefore shall not call him.Mr. Brougham.
602 said, that Restelli had been sent to Milan with dispatches, under the idea that he would not be again wanted. As soon, however, as that circumstance had come to his knowledge, supposing that Restelli might be wanted, he had sent a courier to desire his immediate return. If his learned friend had said, that he would cross-examine him in the course of the defence, and if he had not rejected the allowance of time which had been offered him by their lordships, Restelli might have been present at this stage of the proceedings. If his learned friend had wanted Restelli, it was his duty to have communicated the fact to him, or to have got an order of their lordships, compelling his attendance. No hint had, however, been conveyed to him that Res-
602Mr. Attorney General
 said, he could not have foreseen the necessity of calling Restelli as his witness, until the examination which had just concluded had taken place. When the adjournment took place, the attorney-general or his agents—for agents he had, and active ones too—must have seen from the nature of his cross-examination, that he was laying the foundation of contradicting Restelli. It was, therefore, the duty of the attorney-general to have kept him here until he (Mr. B.) wished to re-cross-examine him. But if there was any one thing which the agents of the Bill ought not to have done, it was that of sending Restelli out of the country, in order that he might continue his operations as the agent of this—of this Milan Commission.Mr. Brougham
 said, that one reason why Restelli had been sent out was, that he had been a courier before. He had brought several of the witnesses to this country. There existed in Milan a great anxiety for the safety of those witnesses, who were in this country, and in order to satisfy the anxiety of their friends it was thought advisable to send Restelli over with letters from the witnesses to their friends, to assure them that they were 6afe and unhurt. It was impossible that he could suppose that his learned friend intended to call Restelli as his witness, after having seen that he intended to contradict his testimony. But now, it appeared, that his learned friend intended to call the witness, whose testimony he had impeached, in support of his side of the case [No, no!]. If his learned friend bad thought proper to secure the attendance of the witness, he might have taken the steps necessary for that purpose.Mr. Attorney General
603 would not say a word in reply. If the witnesses were allowed to depart out of the country pending the proceedings, there was an end of the security which their lordships thought they possessed, that no perjury should be committed with impunity at their bar. Was he obliged under such circumstances to go on with this case.603Mr. Brougham
prima facie604 said, he rose to speak in behalf of their lordships, in behalf of justice, and to state, that the facts which had just come out at their lordships' bar were of a most monstrous nature. Their lordships would recollect, that at the commencement of these extraordinary proceedings, a noble lord rose, and most pertinently and solemnly observed, that under the peculiar circumstances of this case, persons would be called as witnesses, from a foreign land; persons of whom the accused was ignorant—of whose relations, condition, habits and characters, the judges, the accused, or the counsel, could know nothing. That it was possible, nay probable, under such circumstances that perjury might be offered at their lordships' bar. It was then asked, what security was to be given to prevent or punish such conduct, and whether there ought not to be a security similar to that existing in our courts against such an occurrence? On that occasion, the noble lord opposite rose, and with great appearance of candour, said, that it would be extremely difficult, according to the constitution of this country, to adopt any compulsion to make those persona remain in the country: but that he would do every thing in his power to secure full justice to the accused, and to protect their lordships from fraud and perjury. He had heard in the lobby of that House—he had heard in various parts of the metropolis—he had heard from various classes of people, from the highest to the lowest—much commendation bestowed upon the noble earl for the manliness of that declaration. But what now appeared to be the case? Why, it appeared that out of those men who had been dragged to the bar of the House, and some of whom had probably been bribed, it appeared that that very man who had given the most revolting and disgusting testimony, not only had withdrawn, but had been actually sent out of the country as 60on as notice had been given that his testimony was to be impeached. "Gracious God! (exclaimed the noble lord), can your lordships—I ask it in the name of common sense and common feeling—can your lordships suppose that, after such a proceeding as this, great as is the reputation of your lordships, great as is the character of this House, which I have alway6 been eager to uphold by
prima facie604Lord Holland
to605 thought that, after the speech of the noble baron, he had a claim upon the indulgence of the House, and he would, therefore, ask their lordships whether, without any explanation of the circumstances, the attack which had been just made upon him was justified by the facts of the case, or by any thing which they knew of his character? He would appeal to their lordships
to605The Earl of Liverpool
607606 said, he was perfectly satisfied with the explanation of the noble earl. It was doing but that justice to his high character, which that
607606The Marquis of Lansdown
608 claimed no more credit than was due to him when he said, that he knew nothing of the sending Restelli out of the country. He confessed that it was a most ill-timed and ill-judged proceeding. But the well-known character of the person who had done it, was a proof that it was not an error of intention, but merely an error of judgment. If it was an error of the former kind, strong language might properly be applied to it; but if it was merely founded on mistake, he thought that the opprobrious terms which had been used did not apply to it. But it was said, that great injury must be done to the illustrious accused. He allowed it. But what was the course which it was now proposed to adopt? To call Restelli to the bar? That course, unfortunately, could not be complied with; and he thought that considerable allowance ought to be made, in the consideration of her majesty's case, in consequence of that circumstance. Their lordships must therefore act upon this principle, that the examination, when gone into on a future day, would not be so beneficial to her majesty as it would be at present; and when they recollected that circumstance, they must give her the benefit of it, in the language of the law, "liberally and largely." The noble marquis had said, that it was their duty to repair the injury which they had done her majesty; but, it was beyond their power to do it. What, then, was to be done? Could they close the proceedings at that stage?608The Lord Chancellor
609 fully agreed with the learned lord, that there was nothing which they could do that would repair the injuries they had done to her majesty in the course of this investigation. What, then, was the only remedy left them to adopt? What was the only step which they could take, to do her majesty justice? It was, now to put an end, once and for all, to this base and infamous proceeding. How did the case now stand? Her majesty's defence was interrupted, in a manner the most unwarrantable, and the most extraordinary; and, by the admission of the learned lord himself, she could not be restored to the situation in which, if the witness had not been sent away, she would have been placed. This occurrence he did not attribute to the noble earl, but to the agents of the government. Here he called on them to stop. Had not they long enough outraged public feeling, disgusted common sense, and disgraced the country, by hearing at the bar of the House, from day to day, that abominable and disgusting ribaldry, which had been resorted to on this occasion, he knew not for what practical purpose? They ought to consider, whether they were not, by their proceedings, rendering themselves objects of execration to every Englishman, and of contempt to all the rest of Europe? How was it that the learned lord proposed to remedy, as well as he could (for he admitted that no perfect remedy could be discovered), the default of those with whom the present subject of complaint originated? There was proof, that an extensive system of subornation of perjury existed, which they were prevented from probing to the bottom. Well, therefore, might the learned lord admit, that substantial justice could not be done. With whom had this gross error originated? Certainly not with her majesty's counsel, but with his majesty's ministers; or, if not with them,
609The Earl of Carnarvon
—I rise merely to explain. I never could enter this House again, with quiet to my mind, if I admitted, as the noble earl asserts, that this House could not do substantial justice. I am decidedly of opinion, that it can do substantial justice. Allowing liberally and largely for the circumstance that has happened, so far from being unfavourable to the individual, it may turn out, on the contrary, to be extremely favourable to her majesty. It is impossible, therefore, to say that the House cannot do substantial justice.The Lord Chancellor.
611610 understood his noble
611610Lord Ellenborough
 was of opinion, that before they came to any vote on the proposition which his noble friend had made, her majesty's counsel ought to be called in, and asked whether the absence of the witness Restelli would be injurious to their client's case?The Earl of Darnley
615614613612 said, he never in his life entered on a question with more reluctance, or felt a greater degree of difficulty, than he experienced on the present occasion. Undoubtedly, if he had looked at the subject precisely in the same way that, his noble friend had done, he should have expressed, with all the warmth of his noble friend, his indignation at the extraordinary circumstance that had occurrred; for he must say, that by the explanation of the noble and learned lord at the table, it appeared that they were now placed in a situation in which, according to the noble and learned lord's own statement, substantial justice could not be done. What was the statement of the noble and learned lord r* He stated, that by the abduction of the witness at the present moment, and the impossibility of producing him now, an injury' might be done to her majesty's defence, which it was out of the power of that House easily to repair. Why then, if that was the situation of the case, if the Queen was deprived of those means of defence which, if resorted to at that moment might be rendered effectual, and if the necessary means of defence were not fully supplied to her hereafter, he would ask, whether it did not follow, as a plain and inevitable consequence, that the defence was, to a certain extent, injured, and that substantial justice could not be done? Under these circumstances, he felt himself placed in a situation of very great difficulty; he felt all that had been stated with respect to the disadvantage of interrupting the defence before this witness was called; and he should perhaps be better satisfied if his noble friend did not persevere in his motion. But feeling that the House was placed in a most unlooked-for situation—feeling that there was no possible remedy for the act committed by the agents for the prosecution—if he were asked on that ground, whether the proceeding ought to be continued, her majesty being deprived of those means of defence which ought to be afforded to her, he should, however reluctantly, be obliged to assent to this pro-
615614613612Earl Grey
617616 said, if the fact really were, that, from the circumstance which had occurred, substantial justice could not be done to her majesty, he would agree with the noble earl, that the proceeding should be suspended altogether. But the noble and learned lord on the woolsack did not state that substantial justice could not be done. He had said, on the contrary, that the consequence of the event in question might possibly be beneficial to her majesty. The noble and learned lord exemplified the position in this way, and he considered the reasoning to be correct—namely, that they were bound to give her majesty the full and entire benefit, as far as she was concerned, of all the evidence adduced against the testimony of Restelli. And although it might be possible that his evidence with respect to her majesty could, if doubted, be explained, that still, under the circumstances of the case, such explanation should be entirely put out of the way. Here, therefore, her majesty might
617616The Earl of Liverpool
618 said, he was very anxious to state his feeling upon what had passed in the course of this discussion, and upon the situation in which the House was placed. He must, in the first place, observe, that the motion of the noble earl arose out of a complete misrepresentation of what had fallen from the noble and learned lord. He had never said, and he (lord Lauderdale) had never understood him to say, and could not conceive how any man could have supposed him to say, that it was impossible that substantial justice could be done to her majesty because Restelli was withdrawn. The proposition was so absurd in itself, that it was impossible that the noble and learned lord could have uttered it: on the contrary, he had urged, that it was not improbable that the circumstance might turn out advantageously to the Queen. And, what was the nature of the proposition to rectify this supposed injustice? It was this—that after the whole of the evidence in favour of the bill
618The Earl of Lauderdale
619 said, he hoped to be spared the pain of coming at that moment to a decision on the important question submitted to them. The report of the secret committee was this—that it was important to the honour of the country that the truth or falsehood of the charges against the Queen should be fully investigated, and that it was the opinion of the committee, that the best mode of proceeding was by a legislative measure. After that unfortunate necessity had been imposed on them of ascertaining the truth or falsehood of those charges, he knew of no mode so satisfactory as by the machinery of a legislative-measure, without intimating in the most remote
619The Earl of Morley
 said, that if the person who had sent Restelli out of the country were found to be connected with the Milan Commission, he should not be easily persuaded that it was a mere error of judgment that gave rise to that act.Lord Alvanley
 said, the person who had sent away Restelli was Mr. Powell.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that he wished the following question to be submitted to the counsel for the Queen; whether the immediate examination of Restelli was material to their case? He was anxious, in the first instance, to hear the opinions of the learned gentlemen upon this point; and he should then be better enabled to judge what step ought to be taken. Though nothing, not even the speeches of counsel, could alter his opinion, that, for the sake of the country, and for the sake of the House, it ought not to proceed further in this inquiry, yet he felt bound to submit with deference to the opinions expressed by noble lords more experienced than himself. For this reason, he should not press to a division the motion he had offered; though he was convinced that public feeling bad long ago had enough of the proceedings of the House upon this subject. The first hour the public should learn that their lordships had determined to quash this business, it would be hailed by an unanimous acclaim of joy and gratitude from one end of the country to the other.The Earl of Carnarvon
620 felt it necessary to make a few observations, It had been very properly asked, who was the individual who bad sent Restelli to Italy;
620The Earl of Blesington
623ergo,622621 owed it to himself and to the noble earl opposite, to assure the House, that at the time he made his remarks, and before the noble earl had spoken on the subject, he was satisfied that the noble earl was neither directly nor indirectly a party to the transaction. He founded this conviction upon the character he entertained of the noble earl; for though, on many occasions, they were in political hostility, he was ready to acknowledge that on neither side of the House did he know any man less capable of doing what was dishonourable or unbecoming. If he had thus thought before the noble earl had spoken, his opinion was more than ever confirmed by the manner in which the noble earl had met the question. While, however, he acquitted the noble earl of the slightest participation in any thing like intrigue or conspiracy, his feelings upon the subject remained unaltered. After the disclaimer of the noble earl, and a few minutes calm reflection, he still felt bound to say, that the noble earl, on this occasion and others had undertaken to do more for the House than experience showed he was able to perform. The noble earl admitted the proceeding now complained of to be culpable; but when he gave the pledge that no witnesses should leave the country, he ought to have fairly avowed, that he had no power to retain them, that they might, if necessary, be subjected to prosecution for perjury. If the noble earl had thus confessed that there were certain inferior persons, over whom, in this respect, he had no control, the House would, probably have adopted a resolution very different from that to which it had arrived. It had, in fact, relied upon the assurance
623ergo,622621Lord Holland
624 observed, that, as Mr. Powell's name had been mentioned, he ought
624Earl Grey
 esq. was called in, and having been sworn, was examined by the Lords as follows:Then John Allan Powell,
626625—Were you employed under the Commission of Milan? I was.626625Earl Grey.
—Could not the families of the persons who are supposed to have been maltreated at Dover have applied at Milan to colonel Browne for intelligence upon the subject of the witnesses? They certainly could have applied to colonel Browne for intelligence, and many of them did, as I understand, apply to colonel Browne; he gave them the best assurances he could, but they were not satisfied with those assurances; the reports of maltreatment came from various quarters. I have received depositions of the relations of persons here, in which they depose to having heard of serious injuries received by their relations, and notwithstanding all the assurances which they received to the contrary from colonel Browne, they were not satisfied with those assurances.Lord Alvanley.
 hoped the House would not so suddenly call upon him lo give his opinion, whether a question so material were fit or unfit, in its present shape, to be put to counsel. It was this,—"Whether the counsel for the Queen think it convenient to the case of her majesty, that Restelli should be immediately called and examined?" He doubted whether this question could be put, as at present worded; at all events, it seemed to him that, if put, it ought to be followed up by requiring the counsel for the Queen to state the grounds for their opinion.The Lord Chancellor
, esq., was called in, and farther examined as follows, by the Lords:Then John Allan Powell
628.—You have stated, that Restelli was sent to Milan on Thursday or Friday after the adjournment of the House, that was on the 14lh or 15th of September? On the 14th or 15th of September. I left town early on the morning of the 15th, the Friday, I believe, but I am not certain, that Restelli went the preceding evening, but I did not see him go.628Earl of Carnarvon
 considered this examination irregular. He could not conceive the object of making inquiries respecting persons who had come from Italy, but hail not been examined. He also protested against an examination of the agent of a party in a cause. He did not think their lordships could, consistently with the principles of law, call an agent before them, and examine him as to every step which he took in his client's case.The Earl of Lauderdale
 without entering into the consideration of the question immediately before the House, had no hesitation in saying, that he was fully of opinion that any persons who had been brought here as witnesses, and who had not been examined, might be sent back. Indeed, it was his wish that they should be all sent back; and were he asked as to his belief, he would say, that several who had not been examined had returned.The Earl of Liverpool,
.—Do you consider that, as agent for this inquiry, the witnesses are all under your direction and control? Certainly not under my direction and control.Earl of Darnley
 observed, that the objection made to the question did not go upon the ground that it was necessary to protect the agent, but the principal. Although, therefore, the question might be put in the form suggested, yet he did not see how that would remedy the inconvenience, because it was not the protection which the agent owed to himself, but the privilege which was accorded for the safety of the principal.The Lord Chancellor
 could not allow that that principle which was held to be so sacred in other cases, was exactly applicable to the present proceedings? The principal in this cause he considered to be the state. The Attorney-general had to discover the truth and nothing else; and if, at any period of the proceedings, the counsel for the bill should be satisfied that a case could not be made out, it was their duty to state this to the House. The state being the principal, that House, as part of the state, it appeared to him, had a right to examine their own agent.Lord Ellenborough
.—Did you instruct Restelli to go to any other place or places than Milan? I have already answered that I did not.Marquis of Lansdown
 said, he had expressed his abhorrence of the proceeding; but the question was most objectionable in the manner in which it was put. It might be asked, whether any person who was present at Dover when the witnesses were ill-used, and who was also an Italian, had been sent to Italy besides Restelli? If he knew any thing of the law, one of the principles held most sacred was this—that an agent ought not to be required to disclose the confidential secrets of his client. To the question as he had defined it, he should have no objection.The Earl of Lauderdale
 thought it his duty to state, with respect to the matters now before their lordships, that they could not be too cautious in putting questions to an agent; as, if this were permitted on one side, justice required that the same licence should be granted to the other. The principle, as the noble earl had stated, was this—that an agent should not be called upon to disclose the affairs of his client. The noble earl ought to put the question thus:—Have you or not, sent any other person abroad equally qualified to do that for which Restilli has been sent abroad?" By putting the question thus, they might ascertain all that had been done, without inquiring into matters that ought to be concealed.The Lord Chancellor
630 observed, that if the question was put in this shape, the witness might answer "No." But in that answer they would have only the opinion of witness as to the comparative qualifications of Restelli, and not the fact which they wanted; namely, whether at that period any unexamined witness had been sent back? Here their lordships
630The Earl of Rosslyn
 said, there might be many cases, in which, from the sacredness of the principle now contended for, difficulties might arise; but if facts could not be obtained without doing that which the law of England would not authorize, the evil must be submitted to. Such questions must not be put in any particular case, on account of the evil consequences to which such a departure from the established practice must lead.The Lord Chancellor
 begged to ask one question of the learned lord on the woolsack relative to the principal in this cause. Was the secret committee or the House the principal. It had been said, that the House were the prosecutors, and if so, were they not entitled, as the principals, to examine their own agent?Lord Holland
.—Whatever the popular effect of the question put by the noble lord may be, I cannot allow myself to answer a question which the noble lord ought not to have put.The Lord Chancellor
 understood that a vast number of witnesses had been brought to this country who had not been examined at their lordships bar. For obvious reasons, it might not have been improper to send back this superfluous testimony. Such being the case, he was surprised that some of these unexamined witnesses had not been conveyed to Italy, where they could have answered every purpose that was to be answered by sending Restelli. It was said, that an account of the expense incurred was unnecessary when he had called for it.The Earl of Darnley
631 though the point was certainly out of order, begged to mention, on the subject of expense, that he had given orders a fortnight ago for the preparation of the accounts referred to. He begged also to observe, in reply to some observations which he had heard, that it was true that more witnesses had been brought over than had been examined, and he had certainly given it as his opinion that the unexamined witnesses should be sent back. But he had ex-
631The Earl of Liverpool,
 observed, that there could be no question that the unknown prosecutor, whoever he might be, had the right of disposing of his own unexamined witnesses. There could be no objection to his doing so, for the act itself was open to no improper imputation; nor could the opposite counsel interfere to put any question respecting the disposal of the witnesses either to the agent or the principal; they could only ask, whether these unexamined witnesses had been sent away—a fact, which, when answered at the bar, could put them in possession of no new information, as that circumstance was already known.The Marquis of Lansdown
 again supported the relevancy of the question which he had put. The object of it was, to know the value of the explanation given by the witness of his conduct in sending off Restelli, contrary to the general understanding of all parties, and contrary to the express order of the House. If he could shew that not one only, but from fifty to sixty witnesses had been sent back, who could have carried the information for the conveyance of which Restelli was so improperly selected—persons too, who, by their own personal appearance, probably well clothed, and with pockets well lined, could have completely removed all apprehension as to the treatment of witnesses here—if he could establish that, of what value would the explanation of Mr. Powell be? The question was simply whether any witnesses had been sent back to Italy previous to the departure of Restelli, and he could not see what secret there was in this. If there was any secret in it, it was one well known at the Foreign office, where all these persons had obtained their passports, and to this great secret, therefore, all the persons connected with that office, must necessarily be parties.The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, that the principle acted upon in all the courts below, should in like manner be observed by that House, acting either in a judicial or legislative capacity. Whether counsel suggested a question or not, their lordships might put it to a witness if they thought proper. He did not rise for the purpose of objecting to the question put by the noble lord, but he really thought that now, as well as upon other occasions since the commencement of these proceedings, they had done that which, if permitted in the courts below, it was impossible that substantial justice could be done. If counsel called a witness to the bar in any state of the proceeding, it was certainly the duty of the court to give him credit for thinking that it was for the interest of his client so to do. Their lordships might ask any question, at the suggestion of counsel, if they thought such question fit to be put. He apprehended, however, that no noble lord ought to put questions which, in the courts below, would not be permitted. No doubt it would, in many cases, be impossible for counsel to give a satisfactory answer to the court as to the importance of a question, but the safe rule was, to give them credit for putting no other but such as were material.The Lord Chancellor
634.—State what families of witnesses now in Cotton-garden you know to be resident at Milan? To be resident at Milan and the neighbourhood.634Marquis of Lansdown
.—Did you send any letter to colonel Browne, by Restelli, on the subject of Restelli's mission? I did.Lord Ellenborough
.—Have any of the persons whom you have stated to have been ill-used at Dover, returned to Italy? None to my knowledge, except Restelli himself, who was ill-used.Lord De Clifford
639.—Did Restelli bring more than one set of witnesses to this country? I do not recollect, I have no knowledge of it.639Lord Kenyan
 here interposed, and observed, that there could not be the least difficulty in communicating to the House the names of the witnesses, the alarm of whose families his journey to Milan was meant to allay, as well as the dates of the letters which were written for the purpose of bringing him back, whatever difficulty the witness might make, in communicating these facts in his character of agent.The Earl of Liverpool
.—Am I to understand, that there is any other difficulty in your answering these questions than that which arises from your character as agent.Lord Kentyon
 said, that this course of proceeding, if persisted in, would be fatal to the judicial inquiry in which they were engaged. They had called an agent to their bar, as a witness, who had been himself instrumental to bringing witnesses to support this bill; he begged only to ask, what would be their situation, if, from that confidential ascent, a contradiction was extracted to the witnesses, whom he had himself produced? He thought the whole of his testimony should be removed from their Minutes.The Earl of Lauderdale
.—I understand I am to be permitted to suggest some questions to the witness.Mr. Brougham
.—The Lords have not yet done with the witness.The Lord Chancellor
640.—You have stated, that you consider the witnesses for the prose-
640The Earl of Darnley
 now suggested, that the witness should be directed to produce the list of the witnesses whom Restelli had brought to this country.Lord Kenyan
 said, that as the witness could not speak to this subject of his knowledge, such list could not be evidence:The Lord Chancellor
.—Did you consider yourself as having any authority over Restelli to order him to go out of the country? If the man had refused to go out of the country, I certainly had no authority to order him; I even considered him at liberty to go if he pleased, and that I could not have stopped him; I conceived that he was under no legal restraint.Earl of Winchelsea
.—Who is your client or employer in this case? [Cries of No, no!].Mr. Brougham
644643642non constat.—My lords, it is a very important question, and I have no object in putting it except for the purposes of strict justice. It is most important for us to put this question to the present witness, as he is the very first that has appeared at this bar, in the course of the proceedings, who could give us any information upon the subject. Is it not of great importance to ask of this witness, who is the solicitor in this cause, who his client is, when we are acting as the counsel for a defendant open and avowed? If I knew who the person was, 644643642non constatMr. Brougham
.—Were the communications from colonel Browne in writing? I may be allowed to state, that all the communications I have made, have been in writing.Lord Chancellor
645.—Did you not know that Restelli never knew one of those witnesses whom he brought over, nor their families, and never had in his life seen one of them before the journey? How can I know that.645Mr. Brougham
646.—Did you not hear the whole of that evidence given by Restelli before you sent him? I am not sure that I heard the whole, because I frequently go in and out of this House, therefore I cannot take upon myself to say that I heard the whole; but I must beg to observe, that the sending Restelli had not reference merely to the families of those witnesses whom he brought over with him to Dover; the occurrence at Dover had occasioned an alarm to the families of all persons who were sent over, or to come over as witnesses in support of this bill.646Mr. Brougham
647.—Were you present in this House when the Attorney-general of the Queen stated, that he did not intend further to cross-examine any of the witnesses who had been called in support of the bill? I was, and heard him so state.647Mr. Attorney General
.—Was not Restelli along with the witnesses at the time of the riot at Dover? I understood he was; I understood so from him.Earl of Lauderdale
.—Was not Restelli himself maltreated at Dover along with the other witnesses? I understood they all were maltreated.Marquis of Lothian
 said, that for the purpose of putting on record the part he had taken, lie would move, that the examination of Mr. Powell be printed separately, as not being relevant to the issue of the present inquiry, it having been gone into for the information of the; House on a subject of complaint.The Earl of Lauderdale
.—Has Mr. Powell made any application to you, at any other time, for passports for other witnesses on the part of the prosecution to go away? Certainly not.Earl of Darnley
653.—Did Mr. Powell say any thing else to you respecting Restelli's going back to Italy at that time? As far as I recollect, he mentioned something about Reslclli's being a proper person to return to satisfy the families of the witnesses here, he made some statement of that sort, but I did not attend to that, I did not consider it as my business, I merely did the official act.653Mr. Brougham
 again drew their lordships attention to the question which he had already submitted. It did not, as he apprehended, call for any opinion of counsel upon the evidence; but a material fact having appeared in evidence—the fact of Restelli being sent out of the country, although it now appeared necessary for the ends of justice that he should be called back to the bar—this having appeared before their lordships, made it incumbent on them to inquire of the counsel, whether they were prepared to proceed to other parts of the case. He should therefore move, that counsel be called back, and informed of the fact; after which the Queen's counsel should be asked, whether they were now prepared to proceed with any other part of their case.The Earl of Carnarvon
654 felt himself called upon, in the faithful discharge of his duty, to state to their lordships what ought now to be done. He was decidedly of opinion that, although her majesty's counsel might be called in, and informed of the absence of Rest ell the subsequent part of this question ought not to be put to the counsel. He would state the grounds of his opinion. If her majesty's counsel should think proper, after they were informed of the absence of Restelli, to make an application to their lordships, stating that they could not, consistently with the interests of their client, go on with the defence, it would be their lordships duty to call upon
654The Lord Chancellor
 said, he should not oppose the amendment of the learned lord.The Earl of Carnarvon
 thought it ought to appear distinctly upon their lordships Journals, that Restelli had not absconded, but had been sent away by the direction of Mr. Powell. If this did not appear, their lordships would not communicate to the counsel a knowledge of the evidence which had been heard at their bar.The Earl of Carnarvon
655 had not the least objection to its being stated, that he had been sent away; but he thought their lordships were bound in justice to add,
655The Earl of Liverpool
 thought it unnecessary to inform the counsel of what bad already appeared in evidence. He could not perceive the advantage of gravely informing the counsel of facts which they had themselves been permitted to elicit from the witness.Lord Holland
 entirely agreed with the noble baron that it would be better to make no communication at all, but merely to call in counsel and desire them to proceed."The Earl of Liverpool
 agreed that tin's would be the better course. The motion was objectionable upon another ground, because it would be an indirect acknowledgment that this House was satisfied with the conduct of Mr. Powell.The Marquis of Lansdown
 observed, that it was certainly somewhat doubtful whether the counsel could be considered as having been absent, inasmuch as they bad themselves taken a part in the examination of Mr. Powell.The Lord Chancellor
 requested, that himself and the other counsel of her majesty might be permitted to withdraw for a few minutes, in order to consider how, under the present circumstances, they should proceed.Mr. Brougham
 stated, that in the extraordinary circumstances in which he and the other counsel for her majesty were placed, and under the new and insuperable difficulties by which they were surrounded, he felt it impossible to announce to their lordships any determination which they had to come to as to what future course they might feel themselves compelled to pursue in the further conduct of I their case, more than to state that they would to-day pursue a little further the line of examination in which they had been engaged yesterday.Mr. Brougham
656 was called in, and: having been sworn, was examined as follows, by Dr. Lushington, through the in terpretation of the Marchese di Spineto:656Then Fillippo Pomi
 objected to the question. The witness ought to be asked, what did Restelli do?Mr. Attorney General
 conceived the question to be perfectly regular.Dr. Lushington
—You cannot lead.Mr. Attorney General
—I do not mean to lead the witness.Dr. Lushington
—My lords, I apprehend that this is a leading question.Mr. Attorney General
657—I apprehend that it ought to be rather a leading question. Restelli has sworn that he offered no money to procure witnesses; and we have a right to ask a direct question, for the purpose of contradicting him.657Mr. Denman
 objected to this question. A conversation about Demont could not be received in evidence.Mr. Attorney General
 submitted that, as a question likely to lead to important information with respect to transactions connected with this case, in which Restelli was engaged, it ought to be received.Mr. Denman
—The witness has sworn that Demont was not present at the time, and therefore the question was irregular.Mr. Attorney General
—The circumstance of Demont's not being present is of no importance whatever.Mr. Denman
 observed, that the reason for asking the question was quite obvious, and it appeared to him to be one that ought to be answered. Restelli, it appeared, had taken an active part in this business, not only as a courier, but as an agent who procured witnesses. He was charged with having acted corruptly, and it was necessary to trace how far that corruption went. Therefore, whatsoever this man knew, that could inform their lordships on this part of the case, ought to be given in evidence, subject always to cross-examination and contradiction hereafter.Lord Erskinc
658 said, that, under the peculiar circumstances of the
658The Lord Chancellor
—No; because it was a few days after that he had with me this conversation.The Witness
 said, that he and his learned friends protested against putting a question of this description to the witness. It had been admitted that, if Restelli were here, it could not be put, unless he was himself called and examined to the fact. He contended that such was the legal rule. The question could not be put unless Restelli was called to the bar, and interrogated a3 to the fact. If Restelli, on being so interrogated, had denied it, then it would have been competent for the other side to call witnesses to contradict him. Such was the undoubted rule of law. But it was said, that because Restelli was absent, the counsel for the defence might go into a course of examination that otherwise could not be permitted. But why should this be allowed, when, in consequence of the unfortunate mistake with respect to Restelli, the counsel on the other side might make a proposition to their lordships for the postponement of the further proceedings on this bill until the return of Restelli? Is appeared to him to be fraught with great danger, if, on account of the accidental absence of this man, her majesty's counsel should be allowed to take a line of examination that was never before tolerated. They might ask questions, the witness knowing Restelli to be absent, which, if he were here, would perhaps be answered in a very different manner.Mr. Solicitor General
—How does the witness know that Restelli is not here?Mr. Denman
—He was now asked, how the witness knew that Restelli was not present? He did not state positively that the witness did know it; but if he were in such a situation that by possibility lie might know it, that was sufficient for his purpose; because it was clear that such knowledge might C3use a material alteration in the witness's evidence. When he heard Restelli called "a corrupt and profligate witness in this case," he would say, that, so far as the evidence went, there was no proof to bear out such an assertion. He had denied, on his oath, that he had participated in any transactions of such a nature; and witnesses, on the other side, had come forward, and sworn that he had. But he would ask whether, in this stage of the question, any person, viewing the proceedings that had taken place before their lordships, could fairly take on himself to say, before the evidence was finished, before the case was concluded, that this man was "a corrupt and profligate witness," or that he was proved to have been implicated in any transaction that ought to prejudice his evidence in the minds of their lordships? It was, he conceived, the duty of the counsel on the other side to make application to their lordships, as Restelli's evidence was material to the defence, for a postponement of the proceedings until he came back; but he thought it was wrong, during his absence, to suffer, on that account, an examination wholly inconsistent with the rules of evidence, and entirely unfit for the elucidation of truth, to be persevered in.Mr. Solicitor General
660 denied that her majesty's counsel were bound to make any application to their lordships for a postponement of these proceedings; all they had to do was, to make such exertions as they might deem fit for her majesty's defence, considering the peculiar circumstances in which she was now placed. And here he might be permitted to assure their lordships, that if Restelli had been in this country, it was the wish of her majesty's counsel to have produced him at the bar of the house, as Majoochi had been. Under the expectation that he would appear when called, her majesty's counsel had actually summoned the witness at the bar to follow him, before they were apprized of the fact that Restelli had been spirited away from this country. When her majesty's counsel were thus situated—when, without any error on their part,
660Mr. Denman
663662661 maintained, that the question could not be put, for the reasons so forcibly advanced by his learned friend, which had not been met by any sufficient arguments on the part of her majesty's counsel. He had heard it repeatedly asserted, that this man, Restelli, was acting in the nature of an agent, for the purpose of procuring witnesses to attend at their lordships bar; and that, therefore, what he had stated as evidence
663662661Mr. Attorney General
laches, said, he was not competent to decide, how far the question in dispute might be put if Restelli were present; but he did think, that Restelli, being absent for reasons with which the counsel on the other side had nothing to do, being absent from causes which, how-ever explained, left the laches,The Earl of Liverpool
665664 said, the witness had been asked whether any money had been offered to him, and he had given his answer to that question. It was, therefore, a matter for their lordships' consideration, whether the subsequent interrogatory was not stretching the inquiry too far. Perhaps it was not, if they considered how peculiarly circumstanced they were. With respect to the witness whose evidence was meant to be impeached, he was bound, until the moment that witness was confuted, to consider him as honest a man as any that had been produced in the course of this proceeding. If, in the end, he was contradicted, so as to put it out of his power to clear himself, then he
665664The Lord Chancellor
 Where did this second conversation take place? It took place on a morning that he called upon me, and we went together to the inn.Dr. Lushington
666—He has added these words, "and that she, Demont, had gained a great sum."666Mr. Cohen
 esq. was again called in and further examined by the Lords as follows:Then Joseph Planta,
 was again called in, and further examined by Dr. Lushington as follows:Then Fllippi Pomi
 objected to this question as being wholly irregular. What had Riganti to do with the case?Mr. Solicitor General
668***667 maintained the propriety of the question. If their lordships would turn to the 410th page of the
668***667Dr. Lushington
670"spirited669 begged to add a few words
670"spirited669Mr. Denman
671 began his reply: by complaining that the counsel on the other side, had, as usual, gone out of their way to attack individuals not before the House. They had animadverted especially upon the members of the Milan Commission; but he could tell his learned friends, and could assure their lordships, that, whenever the fit time should arrive for inquiring into the conduct of those
671Mr. Attorney General
 here interposed, and said,—I wish to know, whether any noble lord thinks that this question can be put. It would be quite wrong to stop the argument if any noble lord entertains a doubt upon the subject, but to me it seems the most extravagant proposition ever urged. Whether the prosecutor is invisible, as one learned gentleman asserts or so clearly seen that another learned gentleman can point him out as easily as a joint-stock company, I do not know; and whether that is language proper for the occasion is another matter. But whatever the House may think, whether the prosecutor be visible or invisible—whether this proceeding be or be not of a criminal nature—I deliver it as my opinion, without the slightest hesitation, that it is impossible to admit such a question.The Lord Chancellor
 wished, before the adjournment, to make an application to their lordships. Restelli had stated in his evidence, that Riganti had accompanied him to this country. He humbly submitted to their lordships, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, the expediency of ascertaining, from the parties conducting the prosecution, whether or not Riganti was still in this country.Mr. Denman
672 apprehended, that the counsel on the other side had no right to interfere in the conduct of the case on the part of the bill, or to dictate to their
672Mr. Solicitor General
 disclaimed any intention, either of interfering with the conduct of the bill or of dictating to their lordships. Neither had he asked, whether it was intended to call Riganti as a witness. But the question, which he had humbly submitted to their lordships consideration, was, whether, as Riganti had been stated by Restelli to have acted as an agent—Mr. Denman
 denied that Restelli had so described him.Mr. Attorney General
 maintained, that Riganti had been distinctly described by Restelli as having acted as an agent.Mr. Denman
 contended, that all that appeared in the evidence of Restelli was, that Riganti had been employed as a messenger.Mr. Solicitor General
 observed, that if Riganti was in the country, it was in the discretion of those who oppose the bill, whether they would call him as a witness or not, and that it was also in the power of any peer to propose to call Riganti, at any period; but that that question could not be put by the House to the counsel in support of the bill, whatever information might be given in any other way.The Lord Chancellor
649, so far from thinking that this examination should be
649The Earl of Donoughmore
650 said, that if the proposition of his noble friend for printing the evidence in a separate form were adopted, the House would be placed in the situation of first inviting the counsel to take a part in the proceeding, and then coming to a vote, that
650The Earl of Carnarvon
651 said, it was extremely important, that, when this House came to a decision upon evidence, or any other points, it should be distinctly understood, under what circumstances they came to that decision; because their proceedings would regulate those of the courts below, and it was of the utmost consequence that those courts should know, what weight was to be given to their decisions, by clearly apprehending the grounds upon which they proceeded. With respect to the question before the House, he certainly thought it would be convenient to agree to the proposition of the noble earl, for printing the evidence separately; for he understood from the clerk, that if it were printed in a separate form, it might be in a course of delivery early on Monday; but if printed with the other evidence, it would not be ready till a later period. There was one observation which he begged leave to make, with reference to what had fallen from a noble lord. This proceeding had been termed, as it was indeed daily called, an anomalous proceeding, because it was partly judicial and partly legislative. Now, he said, it was not an anomalous proceeding; a proceeding partly judicial and partly legislative was perfectly well known to the constitution of this country. As to the eloquence of judges, he was very unwilling to say any tiling upon that subject, because it had always been his opinion, that judges should not be eloquent. It was their duty to state facts plainly, and give a clear and impartial statement of the law upon those facts. As to what had been said of the intemperate zeal which had been manifested in the course of this proceeding, he knew I not what the eloquence of judges might I be, nor was he prepared to say, that some noble lords, speaking as they did yesterday, were liable to such an imputation; but one thing he certainly felt to be objectionable, namely, that there was a species of noise in the House yesterday, which, whether it were eloquence or not, he would venture to say no interpreter at their lordships bar could explain. Of this species of evidence he hoped he should hear no more. He would only add, for the satisfaction of noble lords,
651The Lord Chancellor
 Esq. was called in, and having been sworn, was examined as follows, by the Lords:Then Joseph Ptanta
652.—Are you under secretary of state in lord Castlereagh's office? I am.652Earl of Carnarvon
 held this examination to be of a separate character from the rest of the proceedings, and one in which every rule of evidence had been violated. Their lordships had attempted to assimilate the rest of the proceedings to those observed in the courts of law, but here four Judges had opened the case, and then asked the opinion of counsel. The usual course in other cases was, for counsel to open the case, and ask the opinion of the Judges. He wished it to stand on their Journals, that one peer at last had not sanctioned a precedent, by which every rule of evidence was violate.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, that as he was one of the four Judges alluded to by his noble friend, he hoped he would not be found to adopt any conduct which did not become a Judge. At least he could assure his noble friend, that nothing should induce him to mimic the extreme mildness, moderation, and forbearance with which his noble friend had conducted himself during these proceedings. What had been clone by the noble lords alluded to, would have been done by any Judge, in any court, under the same circumstances. If any person was charged with having thrown an obstruction in the way of the defence, the person so charged would have been called up for contempt of court, and examined, before the case was permitted to proceed any further. As for the proceeding itself, it was one which they were bound to take in justice to the parties concerned, and upon all accounts it was fitting and proper that it should appear with the rest of the Minutes.Earl Grey
638637636.—You are understood to state, you are in possession of a letter from colonel Browne, giving an account of Restelii's illness? I am.638637636Earl Grey
 said, the reason why the wit ness had been called was very clear. A cir cumstance occurred which was calculated to obstruct the course of justice. A person had been sent out of the country, contrary to an understood pledge, and the present witness, with whom this was supposed to originate, was in consequence called to the bar. He saw no reason why counsel should not be at liberty to suggest any question they thought material.Earl Grey
629 said, his noble friend on the cross-bench (lord Lauderdale) seemed totally to misapprehend the object of the examination. What was the situation in which the House was placed? It was proved, that an agent in support of the bill had, contrary to his general instructions, and contrary to his duty, sent away one of the witnesses who had been examined at the bar. That agent had admitted his having done so, and, in justification, said, that he had so sent him for the purpose of giving assurance to the families of the persons who were in this country to give evidence in support of the bill, who had been, it was stated, very much alarmed by what had happened at Dover. Now, what was the object of the examination of his noble friend? To ascertain whether there was any validity in this excuse, set up for a step which was universally condemned, except, perhaps, by his noble friend on the cross-bench, but which he too would condemn if it proved to be unnecessary. In his questions relative to this measure, so generally repre-
629Earl Grey
641.—You are understood to state, that you did not consider Restelli to be under your direction or control, under what authority did you take upon yourself to send Restelli from this country? As a person assisting, an agent, perhaps, I may call myself; a person assisting in the support of this bill; I conceived that I had a right to send Restelli; that I had that sort of implied authority.641Earl of Derby
.—Can you state whether the friends of a witness named signor Cuchi were in a state of anxiety? I know nothing of that; I have no reason to believe one way or the other.Lord Auckland
632 understood it to be a rule observed in the courts below, that a question might be put to an agent, at the
632Lord Auckland
 observed, that what they had just heard at the bar could not stand as evidence one way or other, either in proof or disproof of the preamble of the bill. He was satisfied that no noble; lord would permit it to operate on his; mind as evidence.Lord Redesdale
633.—Is the House to collect from your evidence of yesterday, that you applied yourself to the Foreign office for a passport for Restelli? I mentioned at the Foreign office that Restelli was to go as a courier.633Earl of Morley
.—If your sole object in sending Restelli was, to quiet the apprehension of the families of persons whom they might be anxious for, how came you to send by him the papers to legalise at Milan, the legalising of which might create some delay, if he was to bring them back? I did not send the papers that he might legalise them; I sent papers by him to Milan to be legalised, that farther proof might be had of them; and I expected that those papers would be legalised in sufficient time for Restelli to bring them back here on or before the third of October.Lord Erskine
648 was anxious that their lordships should not stultify themselves. It was then near one o'clock, and this exanimation had continued from the beginning of the day, and their lordships were now called upon to declare that it ought not to have taken place. His noble friend had contended, that it ought to be printed separately, because it was irrelevant to the issue before the House; if that were a sufficient reason to entitle it to be sepa-
648Lord Erskine
635 begged to remark to their lordships, that this witness had not been called in support of the bill, nor by the counsel for the defence, but by the House. In what capacity the House had called him, his lordship could not say. He had, however, been brought to the bar by an order of the House, and the noble lord would submit, that the counsel on both sides should be per-
635The Earl of Darlington
.—In what capacity did you consider Mr. Powell to have applied for the passport for Restelli; in what capacity did you consider him as acting? As an agent on the part of the prosecution, certainly.Earl of Darlington
.—Do you know that Carrington, whilst doing duty under your command on board the Poictiers, knew what his rating on the ship's books actually was at the time?Lord Colville
 humbly submitted that, for this witness to be called on to depose to what he knew of what the other witness knew, was not evidence, unless he was asked as to some fact which brought Carrington's knowledge within the witness's knowledge. As it stood, he thought the question a droll one.Mr. Brougham
 said, that he had put the question in consequence of Carrinaton's own evidence, that he believed himself to have been rated as a midshipman on board the Poictiers while under the commaud of sir J. Beresford. He had, therefore, good reason to ask, whether Carrington must not have been aware of his own rating; he thought he must have been. No man had a greater respect for the high legal talent of the counsel at the bar than himself, but he did hope that their lordships would not be of the same opinion with that learned gentleman. The learned counsel was not justified in saying that the question was a droll one.Lord Colville
677 said, that it was not
677The Lord Chancellor
.—Do you know, from any fact or circumstance, within your own knowledge, that Carrington did know how he was rated? Every man and officer in the ship knew how they were rated, to the best of my knowledge and belief; I never hid the rating from any of them; but with six hundred people in the ship it is most impossible I can recollect the rating of every man ten years ago; but I believe he knew it.Lord Chancellor
 trusted, in reference to the examination of Pomi on Saturday, that their lordships would allow him to state, that notwithstanding their lordships had appeared to be of opinion that the Queen's counsel could not cross-examine him as to the bribe attempted to be given to him by one Riganti, if he would submit to be the agent of Vimercati, one of the Milan Commission, although their lordships at the time seemed to object to the question intended to be propounded, her majesty's counsel did not wave it altogether, but reserved it to a future time, in case they should be afterwards able to show other acts of the same kind; and in case they should be able to arrive at that necessary and indispensable fact, of who the real party, the prosecutor in this case, was; without which information, looking at the peculiar situation in which her majesty stood, it did appear to him that it was absolutely impossible for them to pursue any step towards that pure and substantial justice, which ought to be the object of every judicial proceeding.Mr. Brougham
 said, the witness (Pomi) had now been examined in chief, and also cross-examined. It was irregular to interpose between the examination and the cross-examination of a witness: whatever application the counsel might have to make hereafter would be then the subject of consideration.The Lord Chancellor
679 rose, to express his great regret, that the noble earl at the head of his majesty's government did not take an earlier opportunity of saying distinctly, who was the prosecutor in the present case. It really did appear to him, that in the question now before the House—if they made it one of state, and in which the state was the aggrieved and complaining party—the Crown, as the head of the state, and not the king indi-
679Lord Calthorpe
681680 felt himself called upon for some explanation, after the
681680The Earl of Liverpool
684683682 said, that the question which on Saturday it had been urged, ought not to be asked, and was not to be answered, was now asked, and had been answered. After the explanation of the noble earl opposite (afforded with his usual candour), something like an answer had certainly been obtained. He agreed with the statement of that noble earl; and it had convinced him, that in this proceeding throughout they were entertaining a bill which the House had been led to entertain at the suggestion of the noble earl, and of the king's ministers; and that the counsel at the bar appeared for the purpose of instituting such an examination, as should certify to their lordships whether the bill ought to pass or not. So far the explanation was to be admitted: but if the House was placed in the situation of having for its own convenience, and with a view to the accuracy of its own determinations, thought proper to create a party, and to place that party at the bar, it behoved them to consider in what way that proceeding, so established, affected the interest of the individual who was the client of the counsel at their bar. When
684683682The Marquis of Lansdown
 would repeat the substance of one observation, in which he had been led to state what he had stated with respect to the abstraction of Restelli, and the difference between a present and a postponed examination. The same principle applied to the cross-examination of a witness who had been already examined in chief. His lordship then proceeded to point out to their lordships the disadvantage of delaying the cross-examination of the witness last at their lordships bar, and wished that any discussion that was not instantly called for might be deferred till that was over. A noble marquis had said that the question which was put on Saturday had been put to-day. He differed from the noble marquis: the question of Saturday he took to be a very different one, and the answer of to-day was by no means applicable to it. Why this point should have been pressed so often, or whether there should have been any delay of an answer, was a question upon which he would make no observation except this—that his professional experience very often furnished him with good reasons for delay. The fact was neither more nor less than this—that his majesty was advised to lay certain papers before that House, and those who gave him that advice were responsible for it; those papers being sent down, were referred to a secret committee; the committee made a report, and after that report the noble earl thought proper to bring in a bill founded upon it. Now this, he maintained, was no prosecution; for neither was there any prosecutor, nor any petition presented against such measure. The noble earl was answerable to the country for bringing in that bill, as all those were who concurred in advising that course; and upon this statement he contended that he was justified in saying, here was no prosecution. What he wished their lordships to do was, to proceed forthwith with the cross-examination that had been deferred, and then any question arising upon it might be impartially discussed; and, in despite of all the world, he might say, he was sure that it would be impartially determined.The Lord Chancellor
685 in explanation, remarked, that what he meant to say was this:—that the noble earl, in relying upon the acquiescence of the House in his delay of
685Lord Calthorpe,
696*** said, he would, for his own justification, call the recollection of their lordships to page 97 of the Minutes,696***Mr. Attorney General
 directed the preceding question and answer to be read, which was done.The Lord Chancellor
.—My objection is, that any evidence between the witness and another person, not a party here, cannot be received.Mr. Attorney General
.—Mr. Solicitor-general, do you wish to be heard?The Lord Chancellor
 said, he could not think it necessary to trouble their lordships with any remarks upon this question. From what the evidence disclosed, it appeared, that all the concern which Riganti had in this business was, to carry a message from Vimercati to Restelli. Farther than that, Riganti was quite a stranger to the subject of the present investigation; upon what principle, then, could any thing said by him to the witness be admitted as evidence? According to every rule of evidence which he had ever read or heard of, such testimony was totally inadmissible, and therefore he concurred in the objection urged by his learned friend. Upon the validity of that objection, it would be for their lordships to decide. In urging the objection, he and his learned colleague felt that they had done their duty, and having so done, they were quite indifferent about the result.Mr. Solicitor General
697 referred to the objection urged upon this subject on Saturday, when it was maintained upon
697Mr. Attorney General
 inquired whether the counsel for her majesty had any observations to offer upon this subject?The Lord Chancellor
in pari materia,699698*** declared, that he should be perfectly satisfied to leave it altogether to their lordships to decide upon the question, and upon the propriety of the attorney-general's interruption of the witness. Riganti was, he maintained, so connected with this business, as to render what the witness said admissible evidence. His connection, indeed, and agency upon this business, must be concluded from the evidence in page 410.in pari materia,699698***Mr. Brougham
701700 requested leave to say a few words in support of the question that had been put. It would not have been asked if it had not been for what occurred on Saturday; and looking at the manner in which the question was then disposed of, and what had just happened, he was in doubt whether he had not entirely mistaken the rules of evidence on this occasion He did not mean to contend, that this man, Riganti, was a general agent of the Milan Commission, but that he was employed as an agent for particular purposes—that he was employed to procure witnesses for the support of those charges—and he conceived their lordships ought to hear any evidence that could be produced on this occasion, with respect to any illegal means that might have been resorted to for bringing forward witnesses in support of the bill. Now, the question that had been put, as it appeared to him, came strictly within the rule that had been laid down, because it went to procure, for their lordships' information, an account of the manner in which Riganti
701700Dr. Lushington
 said, he was sure their lordships would pardon him for offering a short reply to the representations of his learned friends who had just argued this question; and he must confess, that he was somewhat astonished at the bold assertions made by those learned gentlemen—assertions which the evidence entirely negatived. He almost doubted whether his learned friend who last addressed their lordships had made himself acquainted with the evidence; because, if he had, he must have known that the administration of oaths by the Milan Commission, so far from being proved by evidence, was absolutely negatived. Restelli stated to their lordships, that no oath was administered to him; and as far as he recollected, every witness who was asked the question, denied the fact. He believed that no oath was administered by the Commission to the witnesses at the time they made their depositions.Mr. Attorney General
*702 here interrupted the learned gentleman. He would at once refer him to page 227 of the Minutes, where it was stated by Raggazoni that he was sworn before the Commission. The evidence on this point was as follows:—*702Dr. Lushinglon
 maintained, that, taking the whole of the deposition of Raggazoni, it could not be said that he was sworn by the Milan Commission, as it only appeared from the evidence referred to, that the witness took the oath himself. [Here there was a laugh, accompanied by some exclamations of "Oh! oh!"].Mr. Attorney General
 said, he believed that if a counsel had been so treated in any of the courts of Westminster-hall, he would have instantly left the court.The Lord Chancellor
705**ex concessis,704703** resumed.—He wanted to bring the fact before their lordships, and to call on them to look minutely to the evidence as it stood on the Minutes. Restelli denied expressly that, he had been sworn. If they examined the evidence of Ragazzoni by itself, and, still more, if they examined it in connexion with the evidence of other witnesses, the matter would at once be explained. The question put was, "Are you ready, if required, to swear to the truth of this deposition?" he answered "Yes;" and he then took out the cross, and kissed it himself. But this was no proof that any oath was administered by Vimercati. On the contrary, their lordships would find that the question relative to the administration of an oath was repeatedly put in the course of the evidence, and as repeatedly negatived. He would again state to their lordships, with perfect confidence, that if they examined the evidence fairly and candidly, they would see, that though the witnesses were asked, were they ready to swear to their depositions? yet no oath was put to them. They were all asked, if they were ready to swear; and they all answered that they were, if called on to depose upon oath. In saying this, he stood in their lordships judgment; and, of course, his assertion would go for nothing, if it were not borne out by evi-
705**ex concessis,704703**Mr. Attorney General
708***707706 thought it was his duty to state, that, according to any understanding he had of the principles and law of evidence, these declarations could not, in the present stage of this proceeding, be admitted; and, if any noble lord could entertain an opinion, that, according to the course and practice of the Courts below, the view which he (the lord Chancellor) took of the subject could be so far contradicted as to have it shown that the practice of those Courts would let in such evidence, it would be competent to that noble lord to have the advice of the learned judges on the question, and he would feel obliged to the noble lord who called for that opinion, in order that he might thereby correct his own. So far from his mind being satisfied with what passed on Saturday last, he did assure the noble earl (Grey), that, recollecting what had occurred on that occasion, he had since paid much attention to the subject. There was a great deal of good sense in a few words of bad Latin,—"Qui pauca considerat facile errat;"—and he had not failed since that time, to put to himself several questions on the subject—to reconsider it, in fact, as it has undergone so little discussion. In the first place, he would call back their lordships' recollection with respect to what passed as to the witness Restelli. He stood on their Minutes as having given particular evidence—and witnesses were called to their bar (and, he thought most properly and justly called to their bar, in the absence of Restelli, considering that absence not to have been occasioned by the party opposed to the bill), in order to state declarations that had been made relative to that person,
708***707706The Lord Chancellor
.—Was the pay which you state you obtained for Carrington some time after he was discharged, either by personal application at Somerset-house, or by letter, the pay of a midshipman, or the pay of a quarter-master? I believe both; the pay of the midshipman's part of it, could only have been a few days, because he was discharged into a ship to get his pay as a midshipman; therefore for those two or three days he must have been paid; but the Navy-office books can best state this.Earl of Winchelsea
.—According to the course and practice of the naval service, is not every man rated according to the duty he docs on board the ship? Generally speaking.Lord Chancellor
Just hint a fault, and hesitate dislike.""Willing to wound, and yet afraid to strike—688687 considered that the subject now before the House was connected with a sort of collateral inquiry, which he agreed with his noble friend in thinking it was highly important to go into. In the circumstance related as occurring at Carlsruhe, there was but one witness Barbara Kress: she was sent for, it appeared, to Frankfort, to be examined by the Hanoverian minister, and was afterwards sent to Hanover. It was clear therefore that other persons had been employed in that witness's examination besides the Milan Commission. Who were they? or were ministers responsible for them as well as the Milan agents? How was the conduct of agents to be thoroughly sifted, unless it was known who those agents were, and by whom authorized? Perhaps it might appear, that there were other parties at work not connected with the tribunal of the Milan Commission. Were those parties under the control of ministers, or were they not? Were they included in that responsibility which ministers were ready to avow? It was idle to proceed in the cause, unless this information were fairly and fully communicated. How else were they to see their way through a series of proceedings in the collection of this evidence, in which both German diplomacy and German dexterity were mixed up in one confused mass? How else could it be known whether or no, compulsion had been used by parties in that almost invisible empire? It was most material to know whether cor-
Just hint a fault, and hesitate dislike.""Willing to wound, and yet afraid to strike—688687The Earl of Carnarvon
695694693692of691volontariamente.690689 was again called in, and cross-examined by the Attorney General as follows, through the Interpretation of the Marchese di Spineto.695694693692of691volontariamente.690689Then Filippo Pomi
 objected to the answer which the interpreter was translating.Mr. Attorney General
711 said, he understood the noble lord to admit, that if the question arose respecting a conspiracy in the courts below, he did not dispute the law of his noble and learned friend, but to contend, that upon the specialty of the case, upon the extraordinary circumstances of this bill, their lordships ought to be induced to depart from the course which they had hitherto adhered to, and which was always adhered to in the courts below.—Now, this appeared to him a most awkward period to adopt a proposition of this nature, when hitherto they had governed all their proceedings by the understood general laws of evidence. He admitted, that there was no absolute obligation to adhere to those laws; it might be often necessary to open a wider door for evidence than those laws allowed. As their legislative functions were unlimitable, it was impossible to say in what situation they might find themselves to which the ordinary rules of law could not apply. The necessity of departing from those rules was to be deprecated, and therefore their lordships had imposed on themselves the shackles of law. He put it therefore to the House, whether, in this part of the case, they would suffer questions to be put which might lead to an inquiry that would be interminable, or at least most extensive. It was not this particular question only that they would be called on to allow. If their lordships departed here from their usual course, they must depart from it on every important inquiry that could be suggested. The noble earl had said, that they were not to be bound by the nice and technical rules of law. But this was not a nice and technical objection, as many objections, he admitted, were, but was founded on the eternal principles of justice itself. It was this—that where the principal was to be affected by the acts of the agent, there ought to be the clearest evidence of agency. Speaking generally—for he now did not allude to this particular case, but speaking generally—nothing was easier than for one side to employ as agents
711The Earl of Liverpool
715 said, there were one or two observations which he was extremely anxious to make, inconsequence of what had fallen from his noble and learned friend. His noble and learned friend had referred to what he (the lord
715The Lord Chancellor
.—Did Restelli say to you, that Demont either had received or was to receive a large reward for giving evidence against the Queen.Lord King
.—He added these words: "And that, she, Demont, had gained a great sum."Mr. Cohen
 asked the counsel, whether the witness they proposed now to call was with reference to Restelli.The Marquis of Lansdozon
 stated, in reference to what passed on Saturday, that he was not at present prepared to state what course he should pursue with regard to the general Case; but that he was for the present proceeding with Evidence to prove how the Case against her majesty had been prepared.Mr. Brougham
 added, that his reason for putting this question was, that he intended to submit a motion to the House on the subject of the correspondence of Mr. Powell with colonel Browne, and for this purpose he begged that her majesty's counsel would inform him when they bad concluded their present course of examination.The Marquis of Lansdozon
 replied, that they would not omit to do so.Mr. Brougham
 wished to know from the noble earl opposite, whether any person had been employed by government in Hanover to take depositions; he alluded especially to the testimony of Barbara Kress.The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, that he must answer the question quite off hand, but as far as his recollection went, the only agent employed by the British government in Hanover had been, the British minister.The Earl of Liverpool
717 was called in, and having been sworn, was examined by Mr. Wilde as follows, through the Interpretation of the Marchese di Spimeto.717Then Bonfiglio Omati
 objected to this course of inquiry. He apprehended no conversation between Vimercati and the witness at the bar could be evidence as to the charges contained in the preamble of this bill. He should be glad to hear what arguments could be urged on the other side.Mr. Solicitor General
 said, it was convenient, not to say usual, before being called upon to defend a particular line of examination, to hear, not only the objections, but the grounds of the objections which were made to it.Mr. Brougham
 said, the counsel certainly had a right to hear the objection before they could be called upon to answer it.The Lord Chancellor
 said, the ground of his objection was so palpable, that he had thought it unnecessary to state it. He wished to know upon what principle of law any declarations of Vimercati could be made evidence in this proceeding. Supposing Vimercati to have been engaged as an attorney or advocate, his declarations could not be used for the purpose of establishing any fact. Unless he heard some arguments on the other side, all he could do was, to state, that he did not know how, according to the usual course any conversation between Vimercati and the witness could be evidence. If he were asked to go more into detail, he confessed that he was unable to do so; because he understood it to be one of the first principles of law, that a conversation which had taken place between a witness and a party who stood in the situation of an advocate or attorney, could not be made use of as evidence for the purpose of affecting the principal.Mr. Solicitor General
 in support of his question, observed, that he apprehended that it would not be made a question whether Vimercati was or was not an agent. On the evidence he stood a known and accredited agent of the Milan commission.Mr. Wilde,
 said, it would perhaps save time, to refer to those parts of the evidence which went to support that allegation.The Lord Chancellor
720719718 said, he was prepared to do
720719718Mr. Wilde
721 said, he felt it necessary to say only a few words in addition to the very strong and clear statement of his learned friend. He was not much surprised, that those who had been so loth to allow him to speak of principals, should now be reluctant to permit him to detect the agents; for it was enough for the Queen's counsel to show, that they had got firm hold of an authorized agent, to warrant them in asserting that the principal was bound by his acts. He was not bound to bring home to this agent the authority of ministers, or of any other persons under whom he acted; it was enough to prove, that Vimercati acted under those who formed the Milan commission, established for the purpose of hunting the continent for evidence. In whose company was this advocate found? He was always seen co-operating with colonel Browne, the head of the Milan commission, and indisputably an agent. Mr. Powell, another member of that body had been looked upon so much as a confidential agent, that he was allowed to keep back information under that pretext. Next came Vimercati, upon whom a panegyric might now be expected, as none had been yet pronounced; for it was enough to bring the conduct of an agent in question, for the other side immediately to pronounce an eulogium upon him, as had been shrewdly observed by Mr. Wilde. Perhaps, however, it might be wiser if the attorney and solicitor general postponed a little the expression of their admiration. He wished the solid proof to precede it; and if that were received, it might render needless the empty praise. He was not sure that Vimercati was a member of the Milan commission; but certain he was, that a witness was never examined without his assistance; and. his agency was not to be disputed, unless the other side meant to go the length of contending, that there was no Milan commission. Granting that the acts of Vimercati could not be examined, because
721Mr. Brougham
722 on the other side observed, that after the experience he had had of his learned friends, he was not at all surprised at the variety of topics they had introduced. He would not go out of his way to follow them, but would discharge his duty by shortly and simply stating the grounds on which he rested his objections to the testimony offered. Still he must say, on behalf of Mr. Powell, that he was a professional agent in support of the bill; that in that character he had carried on a correspondence with colonel Browne; and that he was bound, as a professional man and as a gentleman, not to disclose voluntarily the nature of that correspondence. On this account, he had represented the situation in which he was placed to the House: personally, he had no backwardness in answering any of the questions put to him; but it was his duty to state the objections that operated upon his mind. Whenever questions on evidence arose, the other side pursued a most extraordinary course—nothing
722Mr. Solicitor General,
.—Are their lordships to understand from you, that William Carrington, in point of fact, never was a midshipman of the Poictiers while you commanded that ship? Never.Lord Melville
.—Was there any engagement that Carrington should be rated as a midshipman, or any understanding on that subject, at the time he came on board your ship? No, he was drafted, I believe, on board the Poictiers from another ship; I had never seen him till then.Earl of Lauderdale
675.—Did William Carrington leave the service in the year 1811? Yes, he did.675Lord Chancellor
.—Do you remember desiring Carrington to go down to the Thisbe, and ask for his papers? I do not remember that, it is ten years ago since this occurred; but I got him put on the Thisbe's books, in order to get his pay for him; therefore I think it is probable it was so, but I cannot charge my memory with it exactly; the Thisbe was the flag ship in the river.Earl of Lauderdale
.—Did you so act towards Carrington, or Carrington towards you, that Carrington could have been led to think he was a midshipman?Earl of Liverpool
.—Did Carrington, while he was on board the Poictiers, ever act as a midshipman? He never did. I should wish, injustice to Carrington, to answer the question, whether he was ever led to believe that he was hereafter to be a midshipman; he never was led to expect that from me. I am about to give my opinion, perhaps it is not evidence; I understand the noble lord's question to be, Have you any reason to believe that he was led to expect that from any body else? my answer was going to be, that the first lieutenant had so good an opinion of that man, I do not know what he might have held out to the man while I was absent; but I never held it out myself. I refer to lieutenant Alcock, now captain Alcock; I do not know that lieutenant Alcock did.Lord Chancellor
676.—Did you ever tell Carrington that he was to be on the quarterdeck; and do you recollect Carrington replying, that he did not wish to be on the quarterdeck, for he had no friends or money to support him on the quarter-deck? He never told me any such thing; and after I knew he was to be sir William Gell's servant, it was very unlikely I should propose to him to be an officer in the service.676Earl of Lauderdale
, bart, was called in, and having been sworn, was examined as follows, by the Lords:Sir John Poer Beresford
674.—Are you an admiral in his majesty's service? A rear admiral.674Earl Grey
.—Did William Carrington apply to you at any time after he had left the Poictiers, respecting his pay? He did.Earl Grey
—What was the name of your first lieutenant? Lieutenant Alcock, now a captain.Earl Grey
 conceived the interruption to be irregular. A question had been put, and an answer given; but, while the interpreter was translating it, he was interrupted by the learned gentleman. He thought it was the duty of the House and of the learned gentleman to hear the answer, and if it were then deemed illegal, it could be struck out.Earl Grey
.—Was any proposition made to you to give evidence against the Queen, and by whom? No.Earl Grey
710709 said, that the noble and learned lord had correctly stated, that when he proposed that this question should be put to the witness, he did it in consideration of the decision of their lordships on this point on Saturday last, not believing that that decision was right in the peculiar circumstances of this case. He had been desirous that the attorney-general should state such objections as might occur to him, that their lordships might deliberately consider the subject, with the manner in which the attorney-general had supported the objection. The objection was ably made by the attorney-general, and ably supported by the noble and learned lord. He might perhaps expose himself to the imputation of pertinacity, when he still persisted in entertaining the opinion that the question ought to be put. The statement of the noble and learned lord as to the practice in the courts below was, no doubt, quite correct; and if the point were submitted to the learned judges, their decision would be such as the noble and learned lord had stated, and therefore he had no wish to refer the point to them. He would admit that, according to strict and technical rules of law in other courts, the question could not be asked. But the question was here, whether their lordships were bound by those strict and technical rules, or whether the peculiar circumstances in which they were placed, did not require some relaxation of those rules, and authorise them to de what, in other circumstances, would be irregular? He had admitted before, that it was desirable, that the House should restrain itself as much as it was possible by the rules of law; but the House was not to be restrained from a departure from those rules when circumstances justified such a departure. The question was, then, whether they were here so situated as to be authorised to depart from strict rules of law? What was their situation? It was admitted on all
710709Earl Grey
686 said, he only wished to state his dissent from one part of the statement made by the noble earl (Liverpool) to whom he gave full credit for candour and openness. But he had asserted, that those of their lordships who had opposed the appointment of a secret committee had contended, that a bill should be brought in upon the responsibility of ministers. What those noble lords, however, did contend for, was, not that a bill, but that a charge should be brought in upon the responsibility of ministers; and that ministers should not shelter themselves under the report of a secret committee. To the mode of proceeding by bill he had always had an invincible objection. With respect to the question immediately before their lordships, he thought that the noble earl opposite had made no answer whatever to the clear and convincing statement of his noble friend (the marquis of Lansdown), as to the difficulty, if not inability, of the learned counsel to prove the conspiracy, arising out of the circumstance of their not being enabled to cross-examine the agent of the party to the fact. Where agency was to be proved, that agency it was rendered nearly impossible to trace, if it could not be also proved who was the principal in it. From what had passed, he must assume, that government were the principals; and, that being assumed, it was to be inferred that every person employed by government in this business was their agent. Hence, it followed, that colonel Browne was an agent. He did not know whether they might consider Hanoverian ministers as agents; but colonel Browne was clearly one. Well then—a question had been put with respect to the conduct of one Riganti, who had been sent by colonel Browne for the purpose of procuring witnesses to go to Milan. When grounds were made to appear at their lordships bar for the assertions that had been advanced by counsel with respect to bribery, he apprehended that he must consider the government as being the principal, colonel Browne as their agent, and Riganti as employed by colonel Browne. There was, at least, that degree of bribery proved that they (their lordships) must know how far persons so
686Earl Grey
 regretted that so much of their lordships' time bad been consumed in the discussion of this question, and though he certainly remained unconvinced by any of the arguments which he had heard in the course of that discussion, he rose for the purpose of stating, that in order to avoid any further consumption of their lordships' time, he had no wish to take the sense of the House upon the question. He should wish it to be merely put and negatived.Earl Grey
 said, that the experience of ages had proved that the rules of evidence, as established in our courts of law, furnished the best means of ascertaining the truth. If, therefore, their lordships in this instance admitted evidence in contradiction to those rules, he contended that they would not proceed in the course which was best calculated to ascertain the truth. In all questions of agency, it was of the utmost importance to ascertain how far the party was to be considered as an agent, and to what extent his acts bound the principal. Suppose he were to say to any person, "John Thomas, I want to speak to you," or "John Thomas, desire such a person to come to me," would any man pretend to say, that by this act he constituted John Thomas, or the other person, an agent? Supposing therefore that Vimercati gave such a direction to Riganti, was that any proof of agency on the part of Riganti? It merely appeared that Riganti was employed to desire Restelli to go to Vimercati, as any other person might have been employed. To prove agency, it was not sufficient merely to show that the party was somehow or other connected with the principal, but it must be proved that he was fully authorised by the person, who might suffer from his acts. The strict rules of evidence had been followed on the part of the prosecution; and if the counsel for the defence were allowed to deviate from them, where, he would ask, would be the consistency or equity of their lordships' proceedings? Equality was justice, and would this be equality? This was a decisive ground, upon which he should strenuously oppose any deviation from the strict rules of evidence.Lord Redesdale
.—Do you know whether Carrington ever messed with the midshipmen? He never did.Lord Combermere
713 said, that the question for their lordships to consider was, whether the putting of the question proposed was not necessary to their information when they came to make up their minds on the fate of the bill? The noble lord had stated, that the House having bound itself to be regulated by the rules of the courts below, it was now too late to depart from the course they had so laid down for themselves. To that he was willing to assent, if the question on which the debate arose did not stand upon different grounds from the other parts of the evidence. That it did so his noble friend had already succeeded in showing. Before he proceeded any further, he was anxious to correct a misstatement which had gone abroad, with respect to some expressions stated to have been used by him on a former occasion. He had never said that the Milan commission, unexamined as the question was up to this moment, was concerned in the subornation of persons to swear against her majesty. He had never said any such thing; on the contrary, he could bear testimony to the character of Mr. Cooke, with the whole of whose professional life he was acquainted, and he had no reason to believe that the other gentlemen connected with him were not also persons of excellent character; but this he would say, that if they were angels, instead of honest men, the evidence might be contaminated before it came to them. It was for their lordships to consider, whether, after so much of the evidence had been shaken, they would now prevent a question from being put, the answer to which might be of such great importance—whether they were prepared to say that the proofs of conspiracy ought not to be inquired into. For his own part, he thought they should, and he would caution the House against coming too hastily to the opposite conclusion. He would beg to recall to the recollection of the House the candid and honourable declaration of the noble earl opposite, that their decision should be founded upon pure and unimpeachable testimony alone, and that whatever was doubtful should be dismissed from their minds. His own opinion was not more entitled to consideration than the opinion of any of their lordships, except so far as the habits of his professional life might be supposed to afford him an advantage. On looking to the evidence, as far as it respected Riganti, he would ask, whether,
713Lord Erskine
.—During the continuance of William Carrington on board the Poictiers, was he on any occasion particularly recommended to your notice by the first lieutenant? Not that I know of; but he was a very great favourite of the first lieutenant's, being a very good man, and the first lieutenant was very 10th to part with him.Duke of Clarence
728727 wished to offer a few words in consequence of what had fallen from the noble earl. In the first place, as to the objection to confining the
728727The Earl of Liverpool
functus officio,731 said, he could not but deprecate the line of argument pursued on the other side of the House, by which all the rules of evidence were
functus officio,731The Earl of Lauderdale
735734733732 said, he felt great diffidence in rising to address their lordships on this question, after the able manner in which it had been discussed by his noble and learned friend near him (lord Erskine) and his noble friend below him (earl Grey). His noble friend who had just sat down was, however, of a different opinion. He was of opinion that their lordships ought to be bound by the rules of evidence in the courts below, because the experience of ages had shown that they were in general best calculated for the discovery of truth. He admitted the fact, and he admitted the ground on which his noble friend had placed his argument. He was of opinion, that the rules of the courts below were the best that could be invented for regulating proceedings between two parties, and those parties too, fairly opposed to each other. He could not but feel the necessity for
735734733732The Earl of Rosslyn
724 proceeded to inform their lordships, that towards the close of the proceedings of yesterday, a question, which was put by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Queen against the bill, to a witness then under examination, had been objected to by the learned counsel who appeared in support of the bill. The question might be represented to their lordships—at least he thought it a convenient mode of conveying it to their lordships' minds to represent it, in these terms: "Whether a certain person of the name of Vimercati, in order to induce other persons to come forward as witnesses, or to furnish testimony against the party accused by the bill, had not offered a corrupt inducement for that purpose?" An objection was very properly taken by the learned counsel for the bill, which objection was answered by the counsel on the other side, and it became the business of their lordships to determine if that question could or could not be put. For his own part, he must say, that the case of Vimercati might differ much from those cases which had been before argued, and on which the House had ruled, that the acts of agency were not so proved, as that they ought in any manner to affect the case. In stating his opinion upon the immediate question to their lordships, he should be extremely sorry to assume that which had been offered by the learned counsel who raised the objection; namely, that Vimercati being only the counsel, or professional agent to the Milan commission, his acts could in no wise affect the proceedings of that commission. He should be extremely sorry to conclude upon so narrow a view of the case. Looking at the evidence, he conceived, that there was sufficient proof apparent that Vimercati was, in fact, an agent of the Milan commission; and an agent their lordships must consider him. Upon this understanding of the case, he wished to have the opinion of the learned judges, and he would therefore propose a question for their decision, one which he conceived to be absolutely necessary for his own and their lordships' guidance, that they should know what would be the law and the course of proceeding upon a similar case in the courts below, taking the
724The Lord Chancellor
737 was happy that the opinion of the learned Judges would be interposed on the present occasion; because, under the peculiar circumstances of this case, the bias of his mind rather induced him to open the door as I wide as possible to the attainment of truth; a course which might, from the view which he now took of the arguments before the House, tend rather to obviate than to assist the general cause of justice. He could not help, on this occasion, animadverting upon the wide range of observation in which noble lords on his side of the House had indulged, upon a mere abstract question, as to whether certain evidence should or should not be received at their lordships' bar. He wanted to know what those observations had to do with this question, or upon what principle of justice it was, that they were called upon to listen to a long line of argument on the subject of a supposed conspiracy? Were they now trying a case of conspiracy? If grounds existed for charging the Milan commissioners, or his majesty's ministers, with conspiracy, surely the time for examining that charge had not yet arrived. They had heard a great deal of eloquence, sometimes a great deal of misrepresentation, both prose and verse, which he thought might have been spared; and they had heard a great deal of inflamma-
737The Earl of Donoughmore
738 considered the present question of the greatest possible importance; and although he had not yet troubled their lordships on this subject, he was anxious shortly to state his reasons for thinking that this question ought not, at the present moment, to be submitted to the Judges. He wished to God that the whole question were brought to a decision! He considered the measure as objectionable and unconstitutional in every point of view, and therefore his mind was made up as to the vote he should ultimately give. With regard to the immediate point under the observation of the House, whatever might be the decision of the Judges, he thought that their lordships should not be bound by technical objections, and that they should unreservedly enter upon an examination of the conduct, not alone of Vimercati, but of every person who had been found acting in this mysterious case. It was said, that this was not the time to enter into an examination as to the character of this conspiracy; but he contended, that, of all others, this was the season when this subject should be fully investigated; for it was now that the conspiracy had begun to develope itself. This was its dawn, and the present was the only time forgetting at the truth. He by no means wished to disguise the difficulty which arose from the circumstance that Vimercati was not in this country to be produced. But whose fault was that? It was not a difficulty which ought to be allowed to operate as a gross hardship on the accused. The noble earl opposite had too much manliness, he was sure, to deny the agency of Vimercati; more particularly since Restelli's case had thrown doubts upon the manner in which the witnesses had been collected. All they knew now respecting Restelli was, that strong suspicions attached to his share of the business. That he had offered money was directly alleged; and that he might have
738Earl Grosvenor
740739 said, he would shortly trouble their lordships by stating the grounds upon which he thought this question ought to be submitted to the learned Judges. The House had been now between thirty and forty days en-
740739The Lord Chancellor
*743***742741 said, he wished to offer a few words on the subject. It was not his intention to protract his remarks to any length, not because he did not consider the proposition under their lordships consideration of great importance, but because the merits of the case had been more forcibly stated than he could hope to state them, by other noble lords, and more especially in the comprehensive, able and constitutional speech of his noble and learned friend on the bench behind him. Far as he should be from considering himself bound by the opinion of the Judges on the question which it was proposed to submit to those learned persons, he did not rise to oppose that particular proposition, since it appeared that to obtain that opinion would be satisfactory to the noble and learned lord on the woolsack, as well as to other noble lords. But in order that the answer to the question should be satisfactory to any body, it appeared to him to
*743***742741The Marquis of Lansdown
745744** said, he would read to their lordships the early part of the lord chief justice's observations. They were as follow:—"I agree with the other Judges in considering the two questions proposed to us by your lordships to be, with reference to the point on which our opinion has been asked, substantially one; and that question, as proposed by the House, contains these words—'The witness being re-examined, had 'stated what induced him to mention to 'C. D. what he had so told him;' by which I understand that the witness had fully explained his whole motive and inducement to inform C. D, that he was to be one of the witnesses; and so understanding the matter, and there being no ambiguity in the words, 'I am to be one 'of the witnesses,' I think there is no distinction to be made between the previous and subsequent parts of the conversation; and I think myself bound to answer your lordships question in the negative."—What he wished to point out to their lordships attention was this; that notwithstanding the opinion which had had been thus given by the learned Judges, they would find, that the following question had actually been afterwards put to the witness Sacchi: "Did any one of the Marietti's whom you are acquainted with in London, make any proposition to you touching the evidence you were to give in this cause?" What he contended for was, that the answer to this question brought
745744**The Marquis of Lansdown
 apologised to the noble and learned lord on the woolsack for making the observation, but, he conceived that the words in which the question was framed, would still not exactly meet the case.Lord King
 replied, that no apology was due from any noble lord for such an observation. On the contrary, it was conferring a great obligation on him. He was anxious to frame the question so, as to render the answer as satisfactory to their lordships, as, under all the circumstances of the case, could be expected.The Lord Chancellor
2. "If in the trial of an indictment for a capital offence, or other crime, evidence had been given upon the cross-examination of witnesses examined in chief in support thereof, from which it appeared that A. B., not examined as a witness, had been employed by the party preferring the indictment as an agent to procure and to examine evidence and witnesses in support of the indictment, and the party indicted should propose in the course of the defence to examine G. H. as a witness to prove, that A. B had offered him a bribe to induce him to bring to him papers belonging to the party indicted, G. H. not having been examined as a witness in support of the indictment, would the courts below, according to their usage and practice, allow G. H. to be examined for the purpose aforesaid, or could such witness, according to law, be so examined, if the counsel, employed in support of the prosecution, objected to such examination?"1. "If in the trial of an indictment for a capital offence, or any crime, evidence had been given upon the cross-examination of witnesses examined in chief in support thereof, from which it appeared A. B., not examined as a witness, had been employed by the party preferring the indictment as an agent to procure and examine evidence and witnesses in support of the indictment, and the party indicted should propose, in the course of the defence, to examine C. D. as a witness to prove that A. B. had offered a bribe to E. F. in order to induce him to give testimony touching the matter in the indictment, E. F. not being a witness examined in support of the indictment, or examined before it was so proposed to examine C. D., would the courts below, according to their usage and practice, allow C. D. to be examined for the purpose aforesaid, or could such witness, according to law, be so examined, if the counsel, employed in support of the prosecution, objected to such examination?
2. "If in the trial of an indictment for a capital offence, or other crime, evidence had been given upon the cross-examination of witnesses examined in chief in support thereof, from which it appeared that A. B., not examined as a witness, had been employed by the party preferring the indictment as an agent to procure and to examine evidence and witnesses in support of the indictment, and the party indicted should propose in the course of the defence to examine G. H. as a witness to prove, that A. B had offered him a bribe to induce him to bring to him papers belonging to the party indicted, G. H. not having been examined as a witness in support of the indictment, would the courts below, according to their usage and practice, allow G. H. to be examined for the purpose aforesaid, or could such witness, according to law, be so examined, if the counsel, employed in support of the prosecution, objected to such examination?"1. "If in the trial of an indictment for a capital offence, or any crime, evidence had been given upon the cross-examination of witnesses examined in chief in support thereof, from which it appeared A. B., not examined as a witness, had been employed by the party preferring the indictment as an agent to procure and examine evidence and witnesses in support of the indictment, and the party indicted should propose, in the course of the defence, to examine C. D. as a witness to prove that A. B. had offered a bribe to E. F. in order to induce him to give testimony touching the matter in the indictment, E. F. not being a witness examined in support of the indictment, or examined before it was so proposed to examine C. D., would the courts below, according to their usage and practice, allow C. D. to be examined for the purpose aforesaid, or could such witness, according to law, be so examined, if the counsel, employed in support of the prosecution, objected to such examination?746 observed, that it had been contended there was no proof of Vimercati's agency. In contravention of this assertion, the noble lord read an extract from the Minutes of Evidence, by which it appeared that Vimercati had agreed to give ten livres a day to a witness in support of the bill. He should vote against putting the question to the Judges, let it assume whatever shape it might; but still he thought, that the part of the evidence which related to Vimercati's agency, should be referred to in the question.2. "If in the trial of an indictment for a capital offence, or other crime, evidence had been given upon the cross-examination of witnesses examined in chief in support thereof, from which it appeared that A. B., not examined as a witness, had been employed by the party preferring the indictment as an agent to procure and to examine evidence and witnesses in support of the indictment, and the party indicted should propose in the course of the defence to examine G. H. as a witness to prove, that A. B had offered him a bribe to induce him to bring to him papers belonging to the party indicted, G. H. not having been examined as a witness in support of the indictment, would the courts below, according to their usage and practice, allow G. H. to be examined for the purpose aforesaid, or could such witness, according to law, be so examined, if the counsel, employed in support of the prosecution, objected to such examination?"1. "If in the trial of an indictment for a capital offence, or any crime, evidence had been given upon the cross-examination of witnesses examined in chief in support thereof, from which it appeared A. B., not examined as a witness, had been employed by the party preferring the indictment as an agent to procure and examine evidence and witnesses in support of the indictment, and the party indicted should propose, in the course of the defence, to examine C. D. as a witness to prove that A. B. had offered a bribe to E. F. in order to induce him to give testimony touching the matter in the indictment, E. F. not being a witness examined in support of the indictment, or examined before it was so proposed to examine C. D., would the courts below, according to their usage and practice, allow C. D. to be examined for the purpose aforesaid, or could such witness, according to law, be so examined, if the counsel, employed in support of the prosecution, objected to such examination?
2. "If in the trial of an indictment for a capital offence, or other crime, evidence had been given upon the cross-examination of witnesses examined in chief in support thereof, from which it appeared that A. B., not examined as a witness, had been employed by the party preferring the indictment as an agent to procure and to examine evidence and witnesses in support of the indictment, and the party indicted should propose in the course of the defence to examine G. H. as a witness to prove, that A. B had offered him a bribe to induce him to bring to him papers belonging to the party indicted, G. H. not having been examined as a witness in support of the indictment, would the courts below, according to their usage and practice, allow G. H. to be examined for the purpose aforesaid, or could such witness, according to law, be so examined, if the counsel, employed in support of the prosecution, objected to such examination?"1. "If in the trial of an indictment for a capital offence, or any crime, evidence had been given upon the cross-examination of witnesses examined in chief in support thereof, from which it appeared A. B., not examined as a witness, had been employed by the party preferring the indictment as an agent to procure and examine evidence and witnesses in support of the indictment, and the party indicted should propose, in the course of the defence, to examine C. D. as a witness to prove that A. B. had offered a bribe to E. F. in order to induce him to give testimony touching the matter in the indictment, E. F. not being a witness examined in support of the indictment, or examined before it was so proposed to examine C. D., would the courts below, according to their usage and practice, allow C. D. to be examined for the purpose aforesaid, or could such witness, according to law, be so examined, if the counsel, employed in support of the prosecution, objected to such examination?746Lord King
 rose. He said, he did not conceive that their lordships could be more unprofitably employed than in sitting in that place discussing technical questions; because it appeared to him, that the point of law which had been so much debated had no connexion whatever with the point of duty, on which they would ultimately be called to decide for themselves. Whether this alleged conspiracy was proved or was not proved, the real question for their lordships' decision must be, whether they would yield to the demand of ministers, first to give them the human sacrifice for which they thirsted, and, when they had immolated the victim, to proceed to inquire by what foul crimes, by what wicked artifices, that victim had been dragged to the altar? This was the most extraordinary proposition that a minister of the Crown had ever assumed, the right of submitting to their lordships; but still it was the true question now before them. Their lordships might amuse themselves by putting questions to the learned Judges, but it was impossible for them to get rid of the question which he had stated; and therefore, he thought they had better at once meet that question boldly and manfully. But if they thought proper to wait for a decision on this point of law, which, he repeated was wholly irrelevant to the point of duty, it would seem as if they were afraid of the great question. He would not apologise for this short appeal, which, to some, might appear to be a waste of time, because he was convinced that they could not waste their time worse than by pursuing the line of proceeding which they had adopted.The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, that though he did not see how this question bore on the proposition in dispute, yet the same principle which led him yesterday to state, that if any noble lord wished to have the opinion of the Judges, he should feel obliged to him for demanding it, and that he would look with deference to the opinion of those learned persons, whatever his own might chance to be, now led him to think that the question of his noble and learned friend ought to be put.The Lord Chancellor
726non constat,725 said, that before their lordships came to a decision on this question, he wished to offer a few words. If the noble and learned lord wished to propose the question to the learned Judges merely for his own satisfaction, he should on that ground not object to it. But he must declare he was of opinion, that even if the Judges did decide that, according to the rules of evidence in the courts below, the examination proposed by the Queen's counsel could not be allowed, their lordships were not bound to act on that decision. On the contrary, he would contend that, in consequence of the knowledge of facts which had come to them from the bar, they were bound to inquire into the truth of the allegations. He was, however, not much disposed to oppose the proposition of the noble and learned lord, because, whatever might be the answer given by the learned Judges, he should propose to their lordships to proceed in
726non constat,725Earl Grey
 observed, that if the noble marquis would refer to the first part of the learned lord chief justice's remarks, he would find the matter fully explained.Lord Redesdale
 observed, that it would be useless to address any arguments to the noble earl who had just sat down, that noble earl having declared, that he had made up his mind on the subject. The point on which their lordships were now called upon to decide was, whether a question should now be put to the witness, although it was of a nature not permitted by those rules which the wisdom and experience of ages had determined were essential to the sound and regular administration of justice? Why, in this particular case, those rules ought to be departed from, he was utterly at a loss to conceive. If those rules were not effective to the production of the truth, they ought to be abandoned every where; if they were so effective, they were universal in their character, and ought to be invariably maintained. For his part, he knew not how the honour and life of any individual could be safe, if those rules were departed from. Although his own opinion was that which he had already expressed, he was very desirous to have the assistance of the learned Judges, whose long legal habits and constant experience so eminently qualified them for aiding their lordships in the consideration of the question; that should he find they differed from him on any point of this description, he should be very careful indeed before he determined to act on his own opinion.Lord Redesdale
748 rose for the purpose of proposing, that another question should be referred to the learned Judges, with the view of ascertaining, whether evidence like that on which their lordships had been debating, and on the propriety of receiving which, no decision had yet taken place, might not, under particular circumstances, be legalized, and rendered admissible. Although the question put to the learned Judges might be by them decided in the affirmative, he would assume that a negative decision had taken place, and under that supposition, he would put the following question:748Lord Erskine
730729 thought their lordships ought not, from a consideration of what might be the future consequences of their
730729Lord Erskine
736 considered the question now before the House to be one of great importance. It was this—whether, under the circumstances of the present case, they would be justified in making it an exception from those rules, which were prescribed for governing cases of the like character in the courts below? It was expedient, in his opinion, to consider the reason upon which these rules, as applied to the evidence of agents, were founded, before they resolved to depart from them. The law as affecting the employer and agent was clear. The employer, for every purpose, must necessarily be bound by the declarations and acts of his agent. This was a plain rule, arising out of the necessity of the case. Before, however, the acts of a supposed agent became binding upon an employer, it was absolutely essential that his relationship of agent should be clearly ascertained. To apply this rule to the present case:—commissioners had been employed to inquire into certain acts charged to have been committed by the individual accused at their lordships' bar, and it was clear, that whatever those commissioners might have done, or whatever they might have authorized others to do, must be received in evidence in the present inquiry. That was a proposition clearly understood.736Lord Manners
 stated, that Mr. Granville Sharpe, who had given evidence respecting the performance of the Moorish dance at Calcutta, wished to make a correction in a part of his evidence. He had, since he appeared at the bar, seen a letter or written document, which raised a doubt in his mind, as to whether the bishop of Calcutta was present at the exhibition of the dance. Mr. Sharpe was in attendance, and might now be called, if their lordships pleased to hear his explanation.Lord Kenyon
—It has been stated to the House that yon are desirous of making some correction in your evidence, with respect to a person or persons stated to have been present at a dance at Calcutta, is that so? It is.Lord Chancellor.
—Are you correct in your recollection, and are you now of opinion that the bishop was not present? My memory is strongly impressed that the bishop was present, but I consider the written document more to be depended upon than my memory.Lord Kenyon.
 did not exactly see how far it was material that the bishop should appear present or not at the dance. The former question and answer might therefore, stand or be expunged, just as their lordships pleased. It was certainly very commendable in the witness if he had scruples respecting any part of his former testimony to come forward and state those scruples to the House.The Lord Chancellor
808 requested permission to put in two letters, one of his late majesty, arid the other of his present majesty, both of which he had stated in opening the Defence of her majesty, and requested that the earl of Liverpool might look at them to identify the hand-writing. The earl of Liverpool was accordingly sworn at the table by the lord chancellor; but Mr. Solicitor General expressing his willingness to admit the hand-writing of the said letters respectively,808Mr. Brougham
—What paper have you got there? A certificate of the servitude of William Carrington in his majesty's navy.Lord Chancellor.
in limine,813812811810809—My lords, the Judges conferred together for some time yesterday, upon the questions proposed to them by your lordships; and afterwards separated in order to, consider them apart, and met again early this morning, and again conferred together upon them. All of us then agreed in the answers to be given to the questions proposed to us, and I having read to my learned brothers the writing which I had prepared as containing my own sentiments and answer, it was found that they concurred therein; and I have their authority, with your lordships permission, to deliver what I had written (which your lordships will observe is in the singular number, being originally prepared as my own alone), as containing and expressing their sentiments also.in limine,813812811810809Lord Chief Justice Abbott.
primâ facie stated, that having been present, by the permission of their lordships, during the delivery of the concurrent Opinion of the Judges by the lord chief justice, he trusted he should stand excused for submitting a few observations. Whilst engaged in the discharge of a duty which had been cast upon him, he had understood, at its outset, that, in the production and reception of evidence, their lordships had resolved to be guided by the rules of the courts below. He hoped that, in the discharge of a duty so anxious, and to him personally so painful, he should not be supposed to have acted improperly in having, the day before yesterday, interposed to offer an objection founded upon that resolution. The Opinion of the Judges, as he understood it, confirmed the validity of the objection as originally taken on a preceding day by his learned friend the Solicitor-general. If, however, their lordships thought that the inquiry to which the question so objected to was pointed, was an inquiry that ought to be pursued, he, for one, would no longer object to it, but rest persuaded that its result would be to the credit of the Milan commission. Even although a primâ facieMr. Attorney General
 inquired of the Queen's counsel whether they had any thing to offer in reply to the attorney-general.The Lord Chancellor
 said, he could not undertake to state that he yet precisely understood the opinion of the learned Judges, or the effect of the observations just made by his learned friend.Mr. Brougham
815 said, it would save trouble, if he now stated what his view was of the questions proposed to be put to the witness at the bar. He had always thought that if they departed from the rules respecting evidence which were adhered to in the courts below, they would have no marks to go by, and would be continually plunged in collateral discussions. But he certainly was most anxious
815The Earl of Liverpool
820cameriera,Porta Orientale.819818 was again called in, and further examined by Mr. Wilde as follows, through the Interpretation of the Marchese di Spineto.820cameriera,Porta Orientale.819818Then Bonfiglio Omati
—In what year? This year.By a Lord.
824"Non so?""Non mi sovvienne."Non mi recordo?Non mi recordo."Non mi recordo?"823822821Mr. Solicitor General.—Do you mean the year 1820? Yes, 1820.824"Non so?""Non mi sovvienne."Non mi recordo?Non mi recordo."Non mi recordo?"823822821Mr. Solicitor General.Mr. Wilde.
825—For the sake of regularity' and for the sake of following the example of my learned friend, who often objected to similar questions, I object to the question, because it assumes that some light did break in upon the witness's mind.825Mr. Denman.
Wilde.830829828827826 submitted, that Mr. Solicitor-general could not examine to the contents of a written paper, stated by the witness to have been delivered to one of the agents in support of the bill.Wilde.830829828827826Mr. Denman
 was again called in, and further examined by Mr. Tindal, through the interpretation of the Marchese di Spineto.Then Filippo Pomi
 submitted, whether, as the evidence stood, it was competent for the counsel against the bill to go into evidence of offers by Riganti, leaving it to the House to determine whether they thought it fit to proceed to hear such evidence.Mr. Attorney General
Lords.832Attorney General.—Upon that occasion, what did Riganti do? I went to buy salt, tobacco, or something; and he told me, for he knew I belonged to the Barona, "Pomi, have you ever seen those jokes (scherzi) between the princess and Pergami? now is the time to come forward, to gain something, and to become a man."Lords.832Attorney General.Mr. Tindal.
833—Were you yourself present at the balls at the Barona? Yes, I, told it the other day that I was present.833Earl of Lauderdale.
835834 was called in, and having been sworn, was examined as follows by Mr. Williams, through the interpretation of the Marchese di Spineto.835834Then Antonio Mioni
 objected to this question. Although this was not a very regular inquiry, he presumed their lordships would require that it should be conducted with at least some degree of attention to the rules of evidence. The short objection which he should submit to their lordships was, that there was no evidence to show that Zancla was the agent of colonel Browne or Vimercati, or of any other person whatever; and consequently no conversation between Zancla and the witness could be evidence in this proceeding.Mr. Attorney General
 contended, that in point of law the evidence was admissible, even upon the narrowest ground; for the conversation between Zancla and the witness fell within the strict rule of a declaration accompanying an act, and was, consequently evidence to prove that act. But he did not mean to rest his argument upon that narrow ground. He would beg leave to put a case to their lordships. Suppose any such language as the following had been used by Zancla to the witness—"Here, you see, I have got 80 double golden Napoleons, and if you will only do as I have done, you shall receive as much, or more."Mr. Williams
 said, he felt himself bound to interpose. It was surely most irregular that a counsel should suggest the answers which the witness was hereafter to give, by putting supposed cases.Mr. Solicitor General
836 wished to know how it was possible for him to make the House understand the nature of the conversation tendered in evidence, unless he was permitted to suppose such a case? He would suppose, then, that the conversation was in substance, a recommendation on the part of Zancla to the witness to go and make a deposition against the princess, and an assurance, that if he had any thing
836Mr. Williams
 said, he must object to this mode of proceeding.Mr. Solicitor General
per saltum, said, in reply, that the judges, in delivering their opinion that day, had said that on a trial for a conspiracy it was competent for the party to begin at whatever end of that conspiracy they thought proper. The usual practice, they said was, to begin with evidence of a general nature, showing the existence of the conspiracy, and then to adduce the details, bringing it home to individuals. His object now was, to show, that an opinion prevailed in Italy, that if witnesses came forward against the Queen, whether right or wrong was their testimony, they would be profitably rewarded. That was a material fact in the contemplation of the case. To establish the conspiracy it was therefore necessary to take the declarations of persons in detail. It would be impossible but by individual declarations to arrive at a general result. From the opinion of the Judges it was open to him to prove, that these prevalent impressions not only existed, but were acted upon by persons, inducing them to come forward as witnesses. Under these grounds, the examination which he was pursuing was evidence as far as it went. Besides, here it was not an abstract supposition. They had traced the witness and Zancla from Venice to Milan, there to the house of Vimercati, and thence again to colonel Browne's, where Zancla received the Napoleons. Here, then, were facts on which to append a case to which a great degree of materiality attached. The fact of a conspiracy could not be proved per saltum,Mr. Williams
v.837 followed on the same side. He contended, that the question ought to be received in evidence; first, upon the ground of agency, and of the connexion between Vimercati and Zancla. The question of agency being established, he had a right to prove the acts and declarations, without being compelled to produce the agent himself. Wherever crime was imputed by the agency of third parties, from the showing of the acts of that party, the agency was inferred, Who ever heard in election cases, where the affirmative of bribery was to be established, of calling the agent to prove the act of bribery? It was quite sufficient to prove the character of agency; then to trace the acts, and
v.837Mr. Tindal
839838** in reply, intreated the House to pause before it admitted this evidence, and see the importance of adhering to the ordinary rule of law, which was fatal to the admissibility of this question. They had now heard that they were to be called upon to admit as evidence in this cause, the prevalent reports which might have been circulated in Italy, because it was possible they might have made an impression on the minds of the witnesses. The House would now clearly see the extent to which the other side wished evidence to be received. No man
839838**Mr. Attorney General,
 said, that he had no right to reply—he only wished to explain.Mr. Brougham
—I object, my lords, to this explanation.Mr. Attorney General.
—I only beg to say that we do not attack colonel Browne.Mr. Brougham.
 said, that three grounds had been urged for receiving this evidence:—1st. That testimony might be given of general impressions abroad; but this was the first time he had ever heard of such testimony being offered. Secondly, it was asserted, that agency had been established. He could not conceive on what ground the declarations of Zancla, when he came down stairs to the witness, could be admitted as the proof of what had passed up stairs. If this were to be proved, at all events it must be proved by Zancla himself, unless the rule that the best evidence that could be obtained should be adduced were completely reversed. The third point urged was, that this might in the result turn out to be evidence of a conspiracy; but here again he knew of no case where such had been allowed, and where it was not required that the party producing the evidence should connect it more immediately with the charge. For these reasons, he thought that the objection urged by the attorney-general ought to prevail.The Lord Chancellor
817 said, he could not allow the question to pass without saying a few words. When he had put the question to the Judges, he had called their attention to it in such a manner, as to induce them to state, not only what the practice of the courts below was, but also what was the law on the subject. He had been of opinion, that the point was altogether new, and that, therefore, they would not be able to state any practice on the subject. What he had foretold had occurred: the case put was quite new to them, and they then felt it necessary to state what the law was on the subject; and (as they had no case in practice to refer to) he was sure they would have been wanting in respect to the House, if, in a case so novel, they had not stated the reasons on which their opinion of the law was founded. He would leave it to their lordships to say, whether he had departed from the rules he had laid down. But he would now affirm, that if he conceived the question to be contrary' to the rules of I law, no consent of the attorney-general
817The Lord Chancellor
*841 observed, that in his view this point required much consideration, though he was quite satisfied, that if his noble and learned friend looked again at the case to which he had referred, he would entertain more doubt than he had expressed. The effect of the cases of Hardy, Stone, and others, had been collected in Mr. Phillipps's work on Evidence, which did the learned author so much credit, where it was distinctly laid down, that the separate declarations of conspirators rendered the whole responsible; but then they must first be shown to be conspirators, and their declarations must be proved according to the regular forms of law. Hardy's trial had occurred so long ago, that until he refreshed his memory regarding it last night, he had forgotten all the circumstances, excepting that he made a tedious speech, which very nearly killed himself, and quite sickened his hearers. Having referred to it, however, he found that the position taken by his noble and learned friend was by no means borne out. If A. B. and C. D. were both proved to be parties to a con-
*841The Lord Chancellor
 begged pardon for interposing; but it might perhaps be as well if his noble and learned friend would take an opportunity of again reading the arguments in that case.The Lord Chancellor
 had no objection to the opinion of the Judges being taken on the subject, and lord Erskine expressed his assent.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that the House might remember that he was not allowed to open the nature of the evidence upon this point.Mr. Brougham
—Will your lordships allow me to state—Mr. Brougham.
—The House, I dare say, will have no objection to allow you to state what you wish to-morrow, but it is now four o'clock.The Lord Chancellor.
 after exchanging a few words with the judges who sat near him, said, that though it might not be regular, he was authorized to say that the judges entertained no doubt that the evidence ought not to be received.The Lord Chancellor,
 felt disposed to agree in the opinion given by the lord chancellor, and upon the three grounds that he had stated. General reports, he thought, ought not to be proved, and the agency of Zancla was not sufficiently established. As to the third point, whether it was proof of a general conspiracy, he felt bound to admit that Zancla was in no way shown to be connected with col. Browne, nor could evidence of his declaration be admitted. If Zancla were not connected, it was impossible that the House should hear from a third person what Zancla had told him in order to affect colonel Browne. Such being his opinion, he did not think any reference to the Judges necessary.Earl Grey
816 observed, that it now appeared that the question on which so much time and deliberation had been consumed, was a question which ought to be put to the witness. He thought so too, but not for the reasons stated by the noble earl. If the Opinion of the Judges was clear, and ought to govern their proceedings implicitly, there was a rule laid down from which the noble and learned lord on the woolsack had himself frequently departed in the course of the present trial. The attorney-general now waved an objection which he had before most strenuously urged; but this was not of itself a reason sufficient to induce him to deviate from any rule which their lordships had previous established, from any principle of law, or that was essential to the administration of justice. Admitting the anxiety of the noble earl to bring this part of the inquiry to a conclusion—an anxiety which he was sorry had not displayed itself at an earlier period, because it might then have saved a great deal of useless discussion—he could not concur With him in the reasons which he now offered for going into it. Whatever was the practice of the courts below, he was now more than ever confirmed in his opinion, that the question ought to have been allowed to be put at once to the witness. The learned Judges did not appear to him to have given a very satisfactory explanation of the points referred to them. In their elaborate answer they gave no distinct statement, as to what was the prac-
816Earl Grey
 expressed his concurrence.Lord Redesdale
840 said, he entertained considerable doubts upon the subject. He agreed that this question ought to be viewed as if the objection had been taken on an indictment; and he admitted also, that before such evidence could be entered upon, counsel ought to explain its object, and to state what he intended to attempt by the production of the witness. If the proof failed, no party would be affected by it. It was asked, if this were a connected chain of testimony? It might be so; but as yet the House only saw one of the links which hereafter might be connected, and closely connected with colonel Browne and Vimercati. The question here was, whether the declaration and explanation on the part of counsel had been sufficient to bring the case within the decision of the judges. The noble lord then referred to what had occurred on the trial
840Lord Erskine
** observed, that counsel ought not only to be permitted to open it, but were required to open it.
**Lord Erskine
 replied, that he remembered all the main features of the case as well as if they had occurred yesterday. The question was, whether what was now offered to be proved might not hereafter be shown to be a link in a chain of evidence, showing that a conspiracy had existed to suborn witnesses against the Queen. In Hardy's trial, lord chief justice Eyre had allowed the attorney-general to bring forward evidence of particular facts, on the faith that they would afterwards be combined and united into a series. He (lord E.) did not mean to offer a decided opinion upon this point, but he thought the same liberty ought now to be allowed to the counsel for the Queen.Lord Erskine
 added, that what the learned lord had selected from Hardy's trial had no reference to the part to which he (lord E.) had alluded.Lord Erskine
 said, he certainly required no waver of the attorney-general to convince him that the evidence in question ought to be received. It ought to be received on the ground of its essential importance to the elucidation of truth. The answer of the learned Judges did not amount to a negative of his proposition: it admitted, that general evidence might be admissible, and it was difficult to say that one question might not produce evidence of a general nature as well as another. He contended, therefore, that he had the authority of the learned Judges for the proposition which he had at first maintained.Lord Erskine
 desired Mr. Brougham to state those observations to the House which he was desirous to submit to their lordships at their rising yesterday.The Lord Chancellor
 humbly begged, that his lordship would be kind enough to let him know in what situation he stood, and whether he was to understand their lordships as having settled the point at issue, yesterday.Mr. Brougham
843 desired Mr. Brougham to consider himself as being
843The Lord Chancellor
 said, that he understood the sense of the House had been sufficiently marked upon the proposition under debate yesterday. He was, therefore, unwilling to press upon the House any arguments upon a topic which he considered, in point of fact, already decided. But what he had now to open was a different proposition from that yesterday taken up by their lordships.Mr. Brougham
 said, that before they could enter into a new proposition, they must decide upon that yet before them, which the learned counsel was wrong in assuming had been already decided. He would now put the question.The Lord Chancellor
844 said, he had not the slightest desire to call in question the decision of their lordships, but he must beg leave to observe, that, the question which had been put was not at all urged by his learned friend upon the grounds on which it was taken up in debate by the House, but upon very different ones, to which their lordships, acting upon the opinion pronounced by the learned Judges yesterday, must, without hesitation, be thought to accede. What he understood they had now decided was this, that he could not ask the witness Mioni, to tell the House what Zancla told him had passed between him and colonel Browne; that in short, no declaration of Browne could be given here in evidence, as related through another by Mioni, unless Zancla, with whom it passed, were himself produced to state it. This was, in fact, a question, which his learned friends, Mr. Williams or Mr. Tindal, had never for a moment raised. Neither of them, in putting the question to the witness, contended that it was for the purpose of proving what colonel Browne said to Zancla. That was the way in which their lordships put it, not the way in which it was meant to be put by his learned friends. The way, in fact, in which he wished to be understood as putting this
844Mr. Brougham
 submitted, that the course now about to be pursued was that of re-opening the question already decided by their lordships. This mode of proof was yesterday, in fact, argued from beginning to end. His learned friend had better state the question which it was his intention to propose, before he proceeded to argue upon it.The Attorney General
 again denied that the question had been argued yesterday. His learned friend, Mr. Williams, had not been heard upon it, and therefore he was entitled to address their lordships this day. The question he meant to submit was not the particular act of colonel Browne, but the general proof that there existed a conspiracy.' What he wanted to argue was the general question, and his learned friends, with the slipperiness of their nature, wanted to press him into their service, by saying that he was contending for a particular point of evidence, which he was not.Mr. Brougham
 repeated, that his learned friend was evidently labouring to re-open a point already decided. The question yesterday put to the witness, their lordships had now negatived, and therefore all argument upon its admissibility was now superfluous. If his learned friend, as he indicated, meant to raise a new argument, it must of course be upon a new question. Let him commence by stating the question he meant to put; that was the regular course of proceeding. It was never before heard of in a court of justice, that a counsel when contending that any particular question should be put, should, instead of setting out with stating his question, commence by opening with an argument upon it. If his question referred to Zancla, instead of to colonel Browne, why not simply state what his question was?The Attorney General
845 saw no ground for disputing the decision which had been, come to on the question. His learned friend had therefore no right to suppose that the case was not decided yesterday. As to the conduct of himself and his colleagues in support of the bill, it had not
845The Solicitor General
 wished the counsel for the defence now to state what course they proposed to take. He observed, that the course proposed to be pursued by her majesty's attorney-general was irregular. It was for the learned gentleman to state what the question was that he was desirous to put. If the attorney and solicitor-general should object to that question, the learned gentleman would then of course be heard in reply.The Lord Chancellor
 hoped their lordships would allow him to say a few words. The whole of the unnecessary discussion of yesterday, about a case which had never been proposed or imagined by her majesty's counsel, arose from his being interrupted in stating what it was they meant to prove as to Zancla. He trusted their lordships would not leave the door open to a second misunderstanding and delay, but allow his learned friend to complete that opening statement which he (Mr. W.) had been prevented, improperly prevented, from making yesterday. He had not the slightest disposition to violate any rule which their lordships might think proper to lay down; but he repeated that he had been unduly prevented yesterday from stating what it was that he wished to elicit from the witness, and with which the argument of the learned gentlemen on the other side had nothing whatever to do.Mr. Williams
 admitted, that it was competent for the counsel for the defence to put any question; and that the question of yesterday stood on a different ground from the present; but he could not see the possibility of going forward with this case, if counsel, before they put questions, were to be allowed to enter into a long argument on the course they proposed to pursue to be replied to by the counsel opposed to them, and then to reply to the objections by which they were met. He thought some rule ought to be laid down to guard against this, to prevent a debate being raised before a question had been put.The Earl of Lauderdale
848 felt it to be his duty to object to the doctrine laid down
848The Earl of Darnley
850849 observed, that no man who acted as a judge could expect to be treated with respect, unless he showed respect to others. He therefore thought it right to state, that having found he had misunderstood the object of Mr. Williams, he was sorry that he had interrupted him. The communication which he had made, as he understood, in conformity with their lordships' wishes, to the counsel for the defence, that the question which they had asked could not be put in the present stage of the proceedings, would not preclude them from having recourse to a similar inquiry, nor even from putting that very question, at a future period. It had been decided by their lordships, that evidence of the proceedings of the Milan commission might be received at the present stage of the proceedings. He wished it should be remembered that the humble individual who had then the honour to address their lordships, did not concur in the view which had been taken of this subject. It was painful to him to differ from their lordships, but feeling that though painful, it was his duty,
850849The Lord Chancellor
—May my learned friend, Mr. Williams, now proceed to state his view of the subject?Mr. Brougham
 said, that either of the learned counsel might address the House.The Lord Chancellor
 said, he was yesterday about to examine the witness as to the purport of the declarations of Zancla himself. This was his object; and, inasmuch as it was impossible for him to do that without putting the preliminary question respecting what Zancla had said, he had put that question which had been objected to, and successfully objected to, by the attorney-general. He was not then allowed to open what he intended to prove; and it was supposed, that he was about to inquire into what Zancla had said respecting colonel Browne—a thing which had never once entered into his dreams. What he proposed to prove was this—that Zancla had told the witness that if he would depose to any thing against the princess of Wales his fortune would be made. To this the witness replied, "But how can I do that when I have never seen her?" Zancla would then be shown to have said, "Oh! as to that, I can take you to the Villa d'Este and the lake of Como—I can point out a spot where you can swear that you saw her royal highness and Bergami embracing, and that will be sufficient." The witness would then state what had been done in consequence; but that which he would prove was all between himself and Zancla, and had nothing to do with colonel Browne.Mr. Williams
—State the question in the terms in which you mean to propose it.The Lord Chancellor.
 said, he could not put the whole of his intended examination in one question. He should ask the witness the question he put yesterday, following it up by what he conceived necessary in explanation.Mr. Williams
 desired Mr. Williams to state what that question was.The Lord Chancellor
851 at the request of Mr. Williams, read several questions and answers immediately preceding the objection taken yesterday: the last question with
851Mr. Gurney,
 said, he again objected to that question; and he thought the answer his learned friend had given to his objection that morning did not carry his case at all farther than it had proceeded on the previous night. His learned friend had said, that his course of examination would not open the conversation of Zancla and the witness with respect to colonel Browne. But their lordships must recollect his learned friend to have distinctly stated, that he would be able to bring home to colonel Browne the acts of another person. He, however, had a right to contend, that the whole of those acts, allowing them to have taken place, must be attributed to Zancla, without any connexion with the Milan commission. But his learned friend wished to show, from the declarations of Zancla, that he was employed by the Milan commission as an agent to suborn witnesses. Such evidence, he would maintain, could not be received in any court. It never was known, that an absolute agency was proved by evidence of the declaration of the agent; the agent himself must be called. The learned gentleman stated his great objection to be, that the declaration of Zancla, stated by a third person, even on the showing of his learned friend, could not be received. He himself must be called; or it must be shown whether he was authorized to do such acts as those that had been referred to; because it would be most unjust to make a principal accountable for acts which he had never given his agent liberty to perform. If their lordships looked at the way in which it was argued yesterday—most laboriously and ingeniously—by his learned friend, Mr. Tyndal, they would find, notwithstanding all the efforts that had been made to prove the contrary, that the question still remained the same, and that their lordships were, in fact, only considering the judgment at which they and the learned Judges had arrived yesterday.The Attorney General
853852 said, the manner in which he understood his learned friend, Mr. Williams, to attempt to prove, that the present must be considered admissible evidence in this case, was, first, by showing that a conspiracy had existed to
853852The Solicitor General
856855854 was extremely anxious that this question should now be rightly understood, because it was very clear that yesterday it was wholly misunderstood. The attorney-general had, on that occa-
856855854Mr. Williams
860non constat859858857 said, he ought to apologize to their lordships for addressing them, after the clear, and, in his humble opinion, the conclusive argument of his learned friend. Their lordships now understood exactly what he and his learned friends did not mean; namely, that they did not mean to give evidence with respect to the conduct of colonel Browne. Nay, that they did not intend, at present, to tender evidence with a view to fix colonel Browne, or the Milan commission, at all. That was not the object of the present inquiry. He and his learned friends had been engaged with that commission during some portion of these proceedings, and perhaps they would recur to it again. But did it follow, because he was not going to fix colonel Browne, and the whole of his coadjutors at Milan, with this conspiracy, that he was therefore to be prevented from giving evidence with respect to other conspirators? If he could show that there was another man, although that individual had never before been named, who had been perpetrating acts, illegal acts—their lordships might call them what they pleased—at Milan, who had been thwarting her majesty's defence, impeding the
860non constat859858857Mr. Brougham
862861 said, in reply, that whatever misunderstanding might have existed yesterday, his learned friends could not complain that they had not now argued on every view which they could take of their proposition. But if he had misunderstood his learned friends yesterday, or if their lordships had misapprehended their application, why had they not interrupted him? He denied that there had been any such misunderstanding on his part, or any misapprehension on the part of their lordships. He called back to their lordships recollection, that his learned friend, Mr. Williams, had yesterday contended, that rumours, reports, and even opinions, ought to be received in evidence, and that in that stage of the proceeding, Zancla's evidence was therefore admissible. His learned friend, Mr. Brougham, had now given up Mr. Williams's argument, and for the last half-hour had been contending for the admissibility of this evidence on other principles. Their lordships were to abandon the rules on which they had hitherto proceeded, according to the declamation and address of his learned friend
862861The Attorney General
864 thought, that such evidence as that which had been offered could not possibly be received in any court of justice, unless that court were ready at the same time, to open the door to every species of testimony, whether connected or not with the subject of judicial inquiry. The counsel would then only have to say, "the public feel that there is a conspiracy, and we hope your lordships will be of the same opinion. We are going to examine a witness, and the questions we are about to put to him must be proper questions, because we say that they will prove a conspiracy." What, he would ask, had their lordships to do with hearing the acts of Zancla through the mouth of a third person? Why should not Zancla himself be produced, instead of being brought into court through the mouth of a witness? If such evidence were admitted, how could their lordships shut the door against an inquiry into the acts of any man at Milan, who might or might not be connected with the' agents on the part of the prosecution? Their lordships had heard a great deal on the subject of a conspiracy. He was as willing as any man to admit, that their lordships had a most important duty to perform, when they came to weigh the testimony of some of the witnesses, because, undoubtedly, some of them had been proved to be of such a description, as called upon their lordships to look at their testimony with the greatest suspicion. It certainly appeared, in proof, that there had been something improper in the conduct of the persons engaged in collecting evidence, and it was the duty of noble lords to weigh, with the most scrupulous attention, a mass of evidence, in which any suspicious testimony was to be found. But, were the learned counsel at the bar prepared to say, that their lordships ought to reject the whole of the evidence, because a part of it was not worthy of credit? Their lordships, acting in their judicial capacity, could not come to any such conclusion. It was a most absurd proposition, that their lordships ought to reject a whole mass "of evidence, because some part of it did not appear to have any foundation in truth, and because some of the agents might be proved to have exceeded the line of duty which they ought to have observed. He would not say whether that was his opinion or
864The Earl of Donoughmore
 said, that it would appear to him a very anomalous course of proceeding, if counsel on either side were, after opening a case, allowed to go into new matter. The learned counsel for the defence had opened no case which, in his opinion authorized the course now proposed. If their lordships were to proceed in trying the case, they must refer to the original opening, and under that opening the witnesses were to be called. When any question arose which was objected to by the other side, it was for their lordships to determine whether it should be put; but he could not conceive that it would be right to open a separate case for the introduction of new questions. As to the opinion given yesterday by the Judges he must certainly admit that those learned persons stated that, in certain cases, questions relating to a conspiracy might be gone into, but they also stated that this was only to be done when conspiracy was opened as part of the defence. Now, was conspiracy opened in the present instance as part of the defence? As far as his recollection served him it was not. As nearly as he could remember, the words used by her majesty's counsel in his opening were, "I do not charge conspiracy; but if there were conspirators, their acts would have been similar to those which have taken place." In his opinion, therefore, the question could not be treated by their lordships as if the case of conspiracy had been comprehended in the opening.The Earl of Liverpool
865 considered, that if this question was allowed to be put, it would form a perfect novelty in the proceedings of that House—whether the present were regarded as a judicial proceeding purely, or as a legislatively judicial proceeding. No agency was established here, but it was alleged that a conspiracy existed. Now, if they were to inquire of persons from Italy whether
865The Lord Chancellor
 said, he certainly should not object to the hearing of this evidence, but the only question was, whether they should hear it before or after Sacchi was called back? He did not think the evidence could be admitted on the ground first stated; namely, the agency of Sacchi. If Sacchi had been sent to Lausanne generally for witnesses, what he had said to persons to induce them to become witnesses, was good evidence; but it only appeared, that he was sent to fetch Demont, and it was too much to infer from thence a general agency. The case of Riganti was different; for he was sent to various places and to various individuals. As evidence affecting the credit of Sacchi, however, he thought it might be received, but Sacchishould be, he thought, previously called back.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, it seemed to be the general opinion of the House, that he was to be called to affect the credit of Sacchi.The Lord Chancellor
 said, it was very essential that it should be known on what ground the proceeding rested. It might be that the witness was called to affect the credit of Sacchi, or it might be something else, but it was essential they should know it.The Earl of Lauderdale
877 said, it seemed to be the opinion of the House that the question should be put; but he begged it to be remembered, that his individual opinion was, that the agency
877The Lord Chancellor
 wished to see some motion proposed in distinct terms.Lord Holland
 was again called in, and asked,Then Antonio Mioni
centesimo—You stated yesterday that you went with Zancla from Venice to Milan? I did.centesimoMr. Williams.
sensale—Did you see him transact any business of any kind, except going to the house in the Porta Orientale and the street Ruga Bella; did you see him do any other business but that? He went also to look after a broker, or under manager of a theatre (sensaleMr. Williams.
 stated, that if the late decision was understood to apply to this, he would not press the question.Mr. Brougham
868—Am I, then, to understand
868Mr. Brougham.
 said, it would be infinitely too dangerous for the House to give an answer to that question; because the House might see a material difference in the circumstances, which appeared to be similar to the learned counsel. The House could only decide upon each case as it arose.The Lord Chancellor
—We can tender no other kind of evidence which can bring the case of conspiracy nearer to the Milan commission, than that which your lordships have been pleased to reject. Restelli has been sent out of the country; we have not Riganti to produce; and Zancla, for any thing we know, may be in the green-bag. There is no process of this Court by which we can compel the attendance of these persons. All that we can do we are ready to do; but your lordships seem to say, that all we can do is of no avail. I understand your lordships to say, that the proving such acts on the part of Zancla, and other persons in the situation of Zancla, as we are able to prove, that the calling upon colonel Browne, the bringing out of money from his house, and showing that money, as a bribe received to give evidence against her majesty, are circumstances not sufficient to connect the bribery with the agents of the Milan commission. If so, I can only say, that you thus cut off the clue of our case. We can, situated as we are—Restelli being withdrawn from us, and Riganti beyond our reach, produce no stronger evidence than that which we have tendered, and your lordships have thought proper to reject. If such is the decision of your lordships, then we need not carry farther the line of evidence upon which we have entered.Mr. Brougham.
 said, the only observation which he felt himself at liberty to make, without the authority of the House, was, that the question of calling other witnesses must be left entirely to the discretion of the Counsel, and he was sure it could not be left to better discretion.The Lord Chancellor
—When you saw the Napoleons in Zancla's hand, were they loose, or in a bag, or in paper? He had a hand thus full, and he has a large hand.Earl of Lauderdale.
 desired the interpreter to stop. That answer was not evidence.Mr. Brougham
 thought they ought to hear the whole of the answer before it was objected to.The Earl of Lauderdale
869 said, it had been the uniform practice to object to an answer when it
869Mr. Brougham
—You are right, Mr. Brougham.The Lord Chancellor.
 said, the answer of the witness was no answer to his question.The Earl of Lauderdale
 remarked, that that was a different thing altogether, and the question might be repeated.The Lord Chancellor
—Do you know whether Zancla was ever in the princess's service? I do not know.Earl of Carnarvon.
 was called in, and having been sworn, was examined by Mr. Brougham as follows, through the interpretation of the Marchese di Spineto:Then Domenico Salvadore
 objected to this question, upon the ground that the declaration of Sacchi, given by another person, was not admissible under such circumstances, Sacchi not having been proved to be an agent. If his learned friend intended to contradict Sacchi by the evidence of this witness, it would be the most proper method to point out that part of Sacchi's evidence which he meant to disprove.The Attorney General
**870 said, that his learned friend's objection seemed to be, that he bad put a question to the witness as to what Sacchi had said to him, without previously putting questions to Sacchi himself, after which a contradiction might be given. That was not his object. His object was, to show, that Sacchi, who acted for the Milan commission in the procuring of witnesses, made application to the individual who had been now called
**870Mr. Denman
871** said, that his learned friend on the other side had not the slightest grounds for putting a question of this sort Calling their lordships' recollection to the opinion of the lord chief-justice, as delivered yesterday, he apprehended it was quite clear, that the evidence proposed was not sufficient to establish that agency which was necessary to enable his learned friend to put this question. Now, he apprehended that the question submitted to the Judges, embraced evidence of much greater authority than that which existed in the present case; for here there was not the slightest proof of agency to collect witnesses generally, but merely the fact of Sacchi's having been employed by the Milan commission to bring Demont from Switzerland to Milan. He thought,
871**Mr. Park
872 submitted, with great deference to their lordships that the course he proposed to adopt was not at all inconsistent with the opinion which had been given by the learned judges. He referred to a particular proceeding, and to particular passages of the evidence, as that by which the character of Sacchi was affected; but he was quite sure, that their lordships would not be blind to all that had been proved, in the course of the evidence adduced at their lordships' bar, with regard to the characters and acts of those employed by the Milan commission. He might be permitted, indeed, to say, that it would be worse than blindness, and totally inadequate for any purposes of the detection of a conspiracy, if they did not connect the whole of what was proved against Sacchi with those passages of the evidence to which he had adverted. When he talked of a Milan commission, their lordships must be sensible that he was no talking of an abstract idea, but of a commission which was known actually to exist. It was not by looking at what his learned friend (Mr. Parke) had called the ragged evidence affecting Sacchi, that that existence was to be traced, or its acts to be proved; but they were not to forget the applications to witnesses which had been made through Vimercati and Riganti—and they were then to connect all that was now charged to have so been done with the result of the evidence which their lordships had already heard. And then, as for the connexion of Sacchi with the Milan commission itself, if their lordships looked at his journey' to Scharnitz, at which place one of the circumstances charged against the Queen was alleged to have taken place, he thought it would be quite clear, that it was connected with what transpired yesterday, in the course of evidence, relative to Riganti. Taking, then, the whole of the evidence together, and referring to the acts of Sacchi, and the result of his cross-examination, he did not apprehend that there could be the slightest possible doubt, either that an absolute proof of agency were made out,
872Mr. Denman
873 asked the counsel for her majesty, whether the whole of the evidence upon which they relied to prove Sacchi an agent, was contained in pages
873The Lord Chancellor
 referred to pages 344, 371 and 372 of the printed Minutes, as proof of the agency of Sacchi.Mr. Denman
 observed, that his learned friend had dealt somewhat in generals with respect to Sacchi; but when he was asked for the proof and illustration of his remarks, as they were to be derive'd from the evidence, they appeared to be confined to the facts of Sacchi's having gone to Switzerland for Demont, and to Scharnitz, for what purpose did not appear; and therefore he apprehended that, the question, being without better foundation, it was impossible to admit it. How was it possible for their lordships to allow that any act done by Sacchi in the capacity of a mere courier, should be made a ground for causing other questions to be put to him upon a re-examination?Mr. Parke
875*874 said, he would first, call the attention of the House to the evidence on the Minutes, as far as it affected the agency of Sacchi. It was to be found in pages 344 and 372, and 448 and 419, in his own testimony and in that of Demont. His own evidence was to this effect:—875*874The Lord Chancellor
 said, it might be well that he should signify to the counsel that the House had heard enough as to the imputed agency of Sacchi, but were willing to hear arguments on any other grounds.The Lord Chancellor
878 objected to the evidence, and to the question arising out of the argument upon it. The objec-
878The Attorney General
879 maintained, that the ground of his learned friend's objection to the course of examination proposed by his learned friends on the other side was fully sustained by a passage which he should read from the high authority of Phillips in his "Law of Evidence." In page 299 of the last edition, it was laid down, that "the party against whom a witness is called, may disprove the facts stated by him, or may examine other witnesses as to their general character; but they will not be allowed to speak of particular parts of his conduct; for though every man is supposed to be capable of supporting the one, it is not likely that he should be prepared to answer the other without notice, and even if he should happen to be prepared to defend himself, such evidence might generally afford a very slight and imperfect test of his credibility. The regular mode is, to inquire, whether they have the means of knowing the former witness's general character, and whether from such knowledge they could believe him on his oath? In answer to such evidence against character, the other party may cross-examine the witnesses as to their means of knowledge, and the grounds of their opinion, or may attack their general character, and by fresh evidence support the character of his own witness."—Farther, this able writer stated, that "if a witness, upon being questioned whether he has not been guilty of a felony, or of some infamous offence, deny the charge, the party against whom the witness has been called, will not be allowed to prove the truth of the charge. Such evidence is not admissible, either for the purpose of contradicting or of discrediting him." Upon this authority, seconded as it was by general principles, by common sense, and by the uniform practice in the courts of law, he argued, that the counsel on the other side could not be consistently allowed to follow up
879Mr. Parke
880 expressed his entire concurrence with the general principles laid down by his learned friends on the other side. He allowed that it was not competent to him to attempt to discredit a witness by entering into proofs of particular acts of criminality, with regard to which that witness had not been previously cross-examined. He agreed also in the expediency and justice of the principle, that to discredit an adverse witness, no party had a right to impeach him for any act out of the particular cause in issue, and that if his testimony could not be positively contradicted, it only remained to call evidence to show, that he was not entitled to credit, which evidence, the party in whose favour the witness appeared, would be fully at liberty to rebut by opposite testimony, as Mr. Phillips had so justly observed. Those principles were so clearly recognised and so uniformly acted upon in the courts of law, that he had no intention whatever to dispute their validity. But, then, those principles did not at all interfere with the proposition for which he contended in this case. For here his object was, to examine the witness solely as to the conduct of Sacchi in this particular cause in which he had been a principal evidence. He would go along with his learned friend on the other side in the doctrine, that it was not admissible to produce any other evidence of the guilt of an adverse witness, than the record of his conviction. He agreed also with his learned friends, that it would not be consistent to admit evidence against Sacchi in this case for any act of which he had had no notice before. Such a proceeding would, indeed, serve not only to involve the House in the trial of a collateral issue, but would be a most unfair proceeding towards the witness. But was that the situation of Sacchi? Was he not fully aware of the charges against him for attempting to corrupt and suborn witnesses? Did he not derive ample notice upon this subject from the context of the cross-examination? Could he possibly, after that cross-examination, complain of the want of adequate notice of the intention to contradict his testimony and im-
880Mr. Brougham
881 expressed his hope that that House would never lose sight of those principles of law which had been laid down by his learned friends on the other side, and subscribed to by his learned friend beside him. But he contended, with his learned friend beside him, that the proposed examination as to Sacchi was not at all inconsistent with those principles; and farther, that to prevent the question which on his side it was meant to put respecting Sacchi, would be to interfere with the administration of substantial justice. It was argued on the other side, that it was not competent to any party to examine a witness as to any charge against the adverse party or his witnesses, unless that party or witness had previous notice of such charge. But how could this doctrine be consistently maintained against an inquiry into charges which might have been discovered only in the course of the trial? Suppose that upon the very morning of the examination of a witness the attorney on the other side should have attempted to tamper with him, and that this attorney should have been also found to have offered money, and used other means to collect witnesses, could it possibly be held that no evidence should be admitted as to such conduct on the part of the agent, merely because he had had no previous notice of the charge? He maintained that such evidence, applying as it did to the rest of the cause, was perfectly admissible, and when given, it would be open to the other side to put the attorney into the box, and have his evidence in reply. He put a peculiar
881Mr. Denman
882 observed, that, from the manner in which his learned friend had dwelt upon the agency of Sacchi, it would appear, that he placed but little reliance upon the other ground urged by his learned colleague. In the analogy which his learned friend had drawn between Sacchi and an attorney, his learned friend would impress, that Sacchi was an agent, but that was a point which he thought had been given up through their lordships' decision. But, as to the other point, his learned friend, Mr. Brougham, had admitted, that evidence could not be offered to prove a charge against any witness, unless that witness had had previous notice of such charge. His learned friend alleged, that notice had been given to Sacchi of the charge to which the last witness was adduced in the course of his cross-examination; but he (Mr. P.) was
882Mr. Parke
883Nullum simile est idem, said, it was extremely difficult for him to be called on, day after day, to state what was the practice in the courts below, when he had been so long separated from those courts. He therefore wished, as in former cases, to consult the opinion of the Judges on the subject, as the decisions referred to by the learned counsel for the bill were not quite so apposite as to determine the judgment of the House in this case. 883Nullum simile est idem,The Lord Chancellor
 said, he thought there could be very little difference of opinion as to the fact that the House could and ought to go into the inquiry. The effect of proposing the question to the Judges would be, to place the House again in the awkward situation of taking the opinion of the Judges as they did yesterday, and then dissenting from that opinion when it was obtained. Whether Sacchi was an agent or a witness, they ought to know whether he had not himself been active in suborning other persons to give evidence similar to and confirmatory of his own. They could not do justice in the present case without going into that inquiry. He therefore did not see why they should divide the question into so many points, merely for the purpose of puzzling themselves and giving unnecessary trouble to the Judges. In order to obviate this, he should move as an amendment, to leave out all the words after the word "that" in the original motion, for the purpose of substituting these words, "the question proposed be now put."The Earl of Carnarvon
 suggested whether, without taking the step proposed, there was not another way of avoiding both this delay, and the further discussion of the points of law. Would not the difficulties be got rid of by calling Sacchi, and laying the foundation for the proposed evidence of the other witness?The Earl of Liverpool
 stated, that he had no objection, if Sacchi was in a situation to be now produced.Mr. Brougham
 could see no objection to receiving the opinion of the Judges; but, whatever that opinion should be, he thought it material the particular inquiry should be followed up. Here was proof tendered, that a witness for the prosecution had not only corrupted others to give testimony in this cause, but had also given corrupt evidence himself. As to the question of agency, he by no means thought that question, as involved in Sacchi's conduct, set at rest; for, as the matter stood there were grounds for connecting Sacchi so with the Milan commission as to affix upon him an agency.Earl Grey
876 said, that though, for the sake of avoiding interminable investigation, he had felt himself compelled, however reluctantly, to reject the evidence of acts done by persons in no way connected with the bill or its originators; yet in this case there was, if not strictly an agency, such a degree of connexion between Sacchi and the Milan commission, as made it very desirable to see what his conduct had been in their employment, and whether he had endeavoured to obtain corrupt evidence. There was, in his opinion, such a degree of agency as rendered the evidence admissible. But the
876Earl Grey
867ex vi termini,866 said, he understood it to have been already decided, that evidence of a conspiracy to suborn witnesses might be given, and that the only question before the House was, whether the evidence now proposed to be given was legal? He confessed that his opinion concurred with those which had already been delivered, and that, under all the circumstances; he thought the evidence offered at the bar could not be heard. In concurring generally with the opinion of the noble and learned lord, he could not, however, agree
867ex vi termini,866Earl Grey
846 considered the question decided yesterday to be different from that now proposed. The learned counsel had stated, that he had been interrupted in his examination by the attorney-general before it was known with what view the question was put. Their lordships were now given to understand by the learned
846Earl Grey
 said, it appeared to him, that the evidence was to be received, not to contradict any thing Sacchi had said, but to show that his conduct was corrupt, from which the inference would be to impute corrupt motives to him in giving his evidence. He conceived, that the counsel should be informed, that they were to offer evidence, not to contradict Sacchi, but to impugn, if they could, his credit, by showing the corrupt motives under which he has acted.Lord Redesdale
 said, that the arguments of counsel at the bar had produced a considerable effect upon his mind; and, though he had expressed a more positive opinion before, he now hesitated much to say that the question to the witness ought not to be answered.Lord Redesdale
 said, he could not have a clearer opinion on any point in the administration of justice than he had on this, that if a witness had endeavoured to corrupt any other witnesses, evidence might be admitted to prove that fact. When evidence had been heard on that point, they might call Sacchi to contradict it; and he did not pretend to say which evidence would be best; but he was clear that the regular course was, first to hear evidence in affirmation of the corruption before Sacchi was called to contradict it.Lord Erskine
847 was ready to admit, that the question of getting from Mioni, what had fallen from colonel Browne in his conversation with Zancla, was very properly overruled; but the case now offered was a new case, namely, that of proving Zancla to be an agent in the conspiracy. This they had a right to do, either by beginning with the general evidence, and fixing the acts upon the individual, or by first proving the individual agency. Their lordships were to suppose a case of indictment for conspiracy, and then they
847Lord Erskine
 said, the question was, whether the evidence offered would not go to affect the credit of Sacchi? He was quite sure of this, that when he was in the habit of practising as an advocate, if it could have been shown that a witness who had stated any thing against his client, had been himself endeavouring to beat up for false testimony, he would have offered evidence on that subject, and that evidence would have been accepted. The proper course would be, first to prove the corrupt act, and then to allow the other side to bring their witnesses to contradict it.Lord Erskine
884 proposed, that the following Question should also be proposed to the learned Judges:884Lord Erskine
 could not agree with his noble friend, that no evidence could be given of a conspiracy in this case. The contrary had been decided by their lordships, and the learned Judges had given an opinion upon the admissibility of general evidence to prove a conspiracy. Neither could he agree too with the learned counsel, that the existence of a conspiracy must first be proved, when the very object of the evidence offered was to prove that existence. If they objected to the evidence before the conspiracy was proved it would be impossible ever to prove a conspiracy. But the difficulty he felt was this:—Zancla was not a witness; he was not proved to be an agent; there was no act of his connected with the evidence in support of the bill. Zancla was not in any view sufficiently connected with the case, to admit evidence of his sayings and acts.Lord Erskine
 thought the best way would be to call on the counsel to state the grounds on which they urged the admission of the evidence, or the objections which they made to it. The House would then have distinctly before them the grounds on which they have acted.Lord Grenville
885 rose to call their lordships' attention to their order of the 21st of August, which was read by the clerk, and related to the daily attendance of the witnesses during the proceedings upon the bill. It was clear, that this order was intended for the purpose of
885The Marquis of Lansdown
 remarked, that the noble marquis was not altogether correct in the statement of what had taken place yesterday. His object, most certainly, in making the suggestion respecting Sacchi, was, to obviate the delay which must necessarily arise in preparing a question for the Judges, and afterwards affording these learned personages time for considering that question. Before, however, he had spoken of Sacchi, he had inquired whether he was in attendance, and was informed, that though not actually on the spot at the moment, he was at his lodgings, where, if necessary, a messenger would be dispatched to bring him. The noble marquis must, therefore, be misinformed, when he said that Sacchi was not in London.The Earl of Liverpool
886 said, he certainly understood, that the counsel at the bar
886The Lord Chancellor
de die in diem. said, he had not made the statement on his own authority. He had made inquiry before he called their lordships' attention to the circumstance.de die in diem.The Marquis of Lansdown
889888887—My lords, the learned Judges have considered the questions proposed to them by your lordships. The first of those questions, my lords, is, "Whether, according to the practice and usage of the courts below, and according to law, where a witness in support of a prosecution has been examined in chief, and has not been asked in cross-examination as to any declarations made by him, or acts done by him, to procure persons corruptly to give evidence in support of the prosecution, it would be competent to the party accused to examine witnesses in his defence, to prove "such declarations or acts, without first calling back such witness examined in chief, to be examined or cross-examined as to the fact, whether he ever made such declarations or did such acts."889888887Lord Chief Justice Abbott.
 begged to be allowed, under the peculiar circumstances of the case, to repeat the answer which he had yesterday given. He had then, on the question being put to him, said, he had no objection to Sacchi being called, if he could be forthcoming immediately.Mr. Brougham
 said, he must acknowledge, that he had not heard the answer of the learned counsel yesterday so distinctly as to state it correctly to the House.The Lord Chancellor
 begged to say, it was not true that Sacchi had been out of London yesterday. When it was known, that he was wanted, a person had been immediately sent to his lodgings. He had been found, and had set oft" to come to the House.Lord Sidmouth.
—He is here my lord, but I understand his being produced is objected to.The Attorney General.
—Then I understand, Mr. Brougham, that you do not consent to his being examined.The Lord Chancellor.
 submitted to their lordships, that he had laid a sufficient ground for putting the question without Sacchi being called.Mr. Brougham
 wished now to know whether it was their lordships' pleasure that the last question should be put. His lordship stated, that he concurred in the opinion given by the learned Judges.The Lord Chancellor
 was always ready to defer to the judgment of the learned persons to whom the questions had been referred on any subject of law; but the question was a mere question of fact; and he never would consent to have his judgment directed in such a case by others. In his opinion, the agency was proved; but, whatever might be the opinion of the House, they would depart from the line of their duty if they referred to any persons, a question of fact which they were bound to decide themselves. The question was, whether Sacchi was concerned as the agent for the Milan commission, for the purpose of carrying on the corrupt acts which had been alleged against them? On that ground only did his noble friend wish the question to be put, and on that ground it should have his support.The Marquis of Lansdown
 said, he agreed with the noble marquis, that questions on matters of fact ought not to be referred to the Judges. He could not agree with his noble and learned friend (lord Erskine), that a question of this kind ought to be tried without attending to the rules of law. The question here was, not whether they were to inquire into the charge of subornation of perjury, but what were the best means of ascertaining it? His lordship then put the question, whether it was their lordships' pleasure that the question be now put?The Lord Chancellor
893 then stated, that his learned friend, Mr. Denman, had no further questions to put to this witness, considering the decision to apply to all acts of corruption; but that he begged to submit, that there was a distinction between a case in the courts below between A. and B., or between a prosecutor and a defendant, and a legislative measure, like that before their lordships, where there are no two parties, technically speaking, before the court, and that the opinion expressed by the learned
893Mr. Brougham
895894 said, as it was his intention to move for the production of papers relative to the removal of Restelli in September last, and also to his remaining out of this country since September last, it would be his duty to state to their lordships the grounds upon which he thought they could not consistently with public justice or a proper regard to their own dignity, abstain from calling for the evidence which he should ask. Their lordships well knew, that after an order or an understanding, which he supposed equivalent to an order, that no witness who had been examined in support of the bill should be withdrawn, that a most material witness had been withdrawn, by the direct instrumentality of the agent for the prosecution, in obtaining a passport at the Foreign-office, where (notwithstanding that order or understanding of their lordships) no orders had been given that such passports should be withheld. Upon this fact being known, the agent for the prosecution was ordered to appear at the bar, where he was examined upon oath as to the motives which induced him to send Restelli away. He held in his hand the Minutes of the Evidence of that agent, from which he should read the following:895894The Marquis of Lansdown
897896 readily admitted that this case was very different from a case between any individual prosecutor or individual defendant, in which no court could call for the confidential correspondence of principal or agent. He admitted that the House, by having ordered the attorney-general to appear for the prosecution, held a mixed character in this case, and that the objection did not strictly apply. The House, however, having appointed agents, must have appointed them with all the reasonable privileges and all the confidence that belonged to agents. Their correspondence must become confidential, as much as that of the agents of an individual party, or of the illustrious defendant j in this case. Every act of theirs became confidential, and was not afterwards to be called for. This correspondence differed from a public record, because every thing of that kind was drawn up with little chance, he would admit, of ever being I laid before their lordships, but certainly
897896The Earl of Liverpool
898 said, that if he understood the state of the proceeding rightly, a conspiracy had been charged, and Restelli had been proved to be an active, he would say one of the most active, agents in suborning evidence. After that, Restelli had been removed, in a most improper manner, by an agent for the bill—in such a manner, that if it had occurred in any court of justice, the attorney would never have been suffered to practise again, and the cause which had been so much damaged would have been at once thrown out of Court. Reasons had been assigned in excuse for sending this man away; and it was to ascertain whether those reasons were the true ones, that the correspondence was now called for. The noble earl had said, there was no mystery in the business. Now, he thought, the whole proceeding, from beginning to end, bore a character of mystery. The noble earl had, on a former day, avowed himself to be the responsible author of the proceedings; but to-day he seemed rather to shrink from that avowal, and to wish to make the House the principals; while his colleagues, one and all, sheltered themselves in an uniform silence, and did not offer a word in defence of their leader. It was contended, by ministers, or rather for them, that they had no interest in the success or the failure of this measure; and, if that were the case, he could only say that they had stronger nerves than any set of ministers that had been in office since the time of the Cabal. The noble earl had said, that there was nothing mysterious in this matter; but, for his own part, he thought the whole transaction bore the character of mystery. Whoever the prosecutors were, if they adopted the evidence, they must also adopt the agents by whom that evidence was procured. But it appeared that witnesses had been brought forward without the knowledge of the prosecutors, or at least without the knowledge of any of their avowed agents, for Barbara Kress had been procured, not by English, but by German agents. The Hanoverian government, he apprehended, were interested in the steps that might be taken to unravel this mystery. In short, it was clear that machinery had been at
898Lord King
899 said, he had formerly expressed his opinion upon this subject, and nothing had since occurred to alter that opinion. It being admitted, that the prosecution in this case was different from an ordinary prosecution, it followed necessarily that the agents also stood in a different situation from ordinary agents. It was impossible, that an agent should exercise rights which his principal did not possess, or, possessing, might not be able to exercise. Now, what was the reason assigned for withholding this correspondence? Why, it was alleged, that concealment might be necessary. God forbid that any concealment should be necessary here! He felt convinced, that it was not desirable, and that it was not necessary. But the objection now made to the production of these papers, if it was well-founded, should have been made earlier. The same objection should have been made to the evidence of that person who had been examined at their bar respecting the removal of Restelli; but that had not been done, nor had Mr. Powell made the slightest objection to answer the questions which were put to him in his character of agent. If, then, it was not proper to call for the production of these papers, it was not proper to examine that person on the same subject to which the papers referred; for these letters, it should be borne in mind, were required for the very same object for which Mr. Powell had been examined. An important witness had in this case been removed, and certain reasons had been assigned to their lordships for his abstraction. If these alleged reasons were the true ones, the papers in question would still be so far satisfactory, that they must convince their lordships of Restelli's having been sent away for the purpose which Mr. Powell had stated at their bar: but if, on the contrary, colonel Browne's statement on the subject should be found to be different from that of the attorney,
899Lord Ellenborough
 apprehended, that the privilege which an agent enjoyed of being protected against giving evidence which would lead him to betray the confidence of his principal, was not the privilege of the agent, but of the principal. If that were the case, and if the client waved his right, there could be no doubt that the attorney might be called to give evidence. In this case, either ministers or the House were the client; and if the discovery of truth was the object in view, as both ministers and the House professed, then the only question was, whether their lordships, in the investigation of a legislative measure, would exclude truth, and pass the bill without availing themselves of the means of knowledge that were within their reach?The Earl of Rosslyn
 said, that, subject to the understanding that the papers were to be referred to a secret committee, he should not press his objection to the motion.The Earl of Liverpool
900 after what had taken place, did not mean to support the objection, as an objection; but the proceeding about to be adopted was so important, that he desired not to be included in the number of those who thought that there was no objection to it. In the first place, their lordships must allow justice to be done to the witness at the bar; for, if Mr. Powell had not taken the objection to his being examined as a professional agent, he would have deserved never to have been employed as an agent again. If there were particular circumstances to warrant the House in surmounting the objection which, in his opinion, existed to the proposition before them, let it be so. But their lordships ought to be careful how they acted. For first, if the correspondence was called for on the ground, that the House was the principal in the case, be saw no reason why they should not call for the brief of the attorney-general,
900The Lord Chancellor,
 begged leave to make one remark on what had been said by the learned lord on the woolsack. The learned lord in the protection which he had thought it necessary to give to Mr. Powell, had stated that no insinuations should be made against the attorney for refusing to produce the letters that had passed between him and colonel Browne. In this opinion he agreed; and in the statement he had made he had carefully abstained from any animadversion what ever on that part of Mr. Powell's conduct. If, therefore, the learned lord alluded to him——The Marquis of Lansdown
901 begged to interrupt the noble marquis, and to say, that if he had meant to allude to the noble marquis he should have done it in terms that could not have been misunderstood. He must also say, that, during all the time that he had had the honour of sitting in
901The Lord Chancellor
viva voce, briefly replied to the objections that had been urged against the motion. From the moment that Mr. Powell stated he had received these letters from colonel Browne, he stopped; the letters then became the best possible evidence, and their lordships might have called on him to state, viva voce,The Marquis of Lansdown
 suggested, that the motion should be, that the select committee should have authority to call on Mr. Powell for such parts of the correspondence as might be necessary to elucidate the object in view. As the noble marquis and himself agreed as to the substance of the proposition, it would, perhaps, be better to leave the particular arrangement of it to a later period of the day.The Earl of Liverpool
 observed, that the whole case resolved itself into one of privilege.Lord Holland
902 did not think, if eliciting the truth was their lordships' object, that it could be best effected by submitting the proposed extracts to a secret committee. He did not say it was not right to do so, but if it were right to break through those rules that directed the courts of justice on this subject, he thought the committee should have the farther power to sift and inquire into those causes that led to Restelli's being sent out of the country.902The Marquis of Buckingham
 thought, that, if the committee were appointed, Mr. Powell should select such parts of the letters as referred to the mission of Restelli; but he could not approve of the motion in any shape. It was of greater extent than their lordships were aware; it laid down the principle that an agent might be called as an evidence, and have his whole correspondence examined. He maintained that, if this motion were agreed to, there was an end of all confidence between agent and principal; and he did not think that in future any agent could safely do what he might think necessary for the interests of his client, subject to the apprehension that, at a future period, the whole of his conduct and correspondence might be examined. He thought this motion would set a more dangerous example than any other motion he had ever heard made. If this was a public offence, was it fitting that a secret committee should judge of it? It was an offence against the whole House, and therefore a secret committee could not be made the judges of it, unless a part were to decide on the privileges of the whole. If it was necessary for parliament to inquire into the subject, let it make the inquiry by means which would not break down all the precedents of parliament. To lay the confidential correspondence of an agent before a secret committee was what he could not agree to.The Earl of Lauderdale
903 said, that the argument of his noble friend was all in favour of his original motion; but when his noble friend, or any other noble lord, alluded to this as a course unprecedented in parliamentary proceedings, he must state to him, in reply, that, fo far from being unprecedented, scarcely more than one year had elapsed, since that very course had been laid down by the legislature as the most consonant to the practice of parliament. It had been laid down at the commencement of this proceeding by the noble earl opposite in the House of Lords; and in the other House of parliament, in the case of Mr. Wyndham Quin, the correspondence between Mr. Grady and Mr. Carew Smith had been ordered to be produced before the. House, and referred to a secrect committee. He thought the course proposed, of sending such papers before a secret committee, was by no means an unparliamentary one.
903The Marquis of Lansdown
 was by no means disposed to offer any opposition to the suggestions just thrown out, conceiving, at the same time, that nothing ought to be referred to the secret committee but the correspondence between Mr. Powell and colonel Browne as to the causes which had induced the sending Restelli out of the country, and the reasons of his not having returned. He did, therefore, imagine, that that must and ought to be arranged in such a manner that no other part of the correspondence should be brought into question, or under inspection. If he were a member of the committee (which he was desirious not to be), he should consider that Mr. Powell ought to attend with the required extracts from the correspondence, and that he should be prepared to verify them by showing the originals.The Earl of Liverpool
904 adverting to the precedent which had been quoted by his noble friend, protested against deriving
904The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, that Mr. Powell had been sworn and interrogated as to sending Restelli away, and now their lordships wished to have his correspondence referred to a secret committee. If this were agreed to, no man in his senses would ever become an agent.Earl Morton
 observed, that Mr. Grady and Mr. Carew Smith, whose correspondence had been referred, by the House of Commons, to a secret committee, were not confidential agents. It was in the fact, that Mr. Powell and colonel Browne were confidential agents that his great objection against the proposed proceeding resided. There could not be a more mischievous principle, than that confidential agents should be liable to make disclosures such as those now required. It was a principle pregnant with every possible danger to society. On these grounds, he should certainly oppose both the original and the modified proposition.The Earl of Limerick
 thought it would be sufficient for the purposes of the committee if they were furnished with the necessary extracts only; and recommended that a power should be reserved to Mr. Powell to give explanations, if called for.The Marquis of Buckingham
905 confessed, that it appeared to him, from the words of the motion, that it was presumed the committee would see the necessity of examining all the correspondence, in order to ascertain how much referred to the point to be inquired into. He might move an amendment to correct the terms of the motion, if he were acting in any other situation than that in which he stood; but the House must see it was impossible. If any noble lord chose to move such an amendment, it was of course open to him. Noble lords appeared to have grounded the opinion of the necessity of Mr. Powell's examination before a secret committee—or, at any rate, to have defended such a course—upon what they called the contempt of that gentleman. They talked of the contempt of Mr. Powell; but this correspondence was between him and colonel Browne. What right had they, then, to ask colonel Browne? Had he been guilty of any contempt of their House;
905The Lord Chancellor
 could not admit, that the connexion of Sacchi with the Milan commission was sufficient to lay a foundation for the examination. He did not think, that he stood at all upon the same footing as Restelli or Vimercati. It did not appear to him, that there was any proof of such general agency on the part of Sacchi as would lay a ground for the examination the counsel proposed to institute.The Earl of Liverpool
 referred to the evidence given by Demont, to show that agency was brought home to Sacchi. He thought the fact sufficiently proved, that Sacchi was either an agent, or a runner of the Milan commission.The Earl of Darnley
 had no objection to offer against a motion, that Mr. Powell should lay before the House copies of such parts of his correspondence with colonel Browne as related to Restelli's mission to Milan; nor had he any objection to Mr. Powell's being again called to the bar and examined upon that part of the transaction. But he had a decided objection to the production of the original correspondence; because those letters related to other matters not at all connected with this part of the case. He conceived the whole purpose of the noble mover would be attained by directing that Mr. Powell should produce a sealed copy of that part of the correspondence which referred to Restelli's mission to Milan; and by afterwards referring that copy to a secret committee of their lordships, giving to that committee the power of examining Mr. Powell, in order to verify the extracts.The Earl of Liverpool
 objected to the principle upon which both the motion and amendment were grounded. He could not support a proceeding, the tendency of which was, to do away with those laws, which were most essential to the preservation of our glorious constitution. He conceived that there was no act more destructive to the constitution, than that which went to destroy that confidence which existed between agents and their principals. He would ask, how any man could engage with honour and satisfaction in any case, if he was to be under the continual fear of having his letters and communications brought before the public? Nothing could have a more injurious tendency than the establishment of such a precedent. If he rightly understood the noble lord who spoke last, his vote was grounded rather on the conduct of Mr. Powell, than on the merits of the question itself.Lord Somers
 repeated the objections he had urged against the proposed course of proceeding. He most strongly objected to the principle here, or in any case, of calling on the agent. In all cases, too, he was most averse to the appointment of secret committees, unless they were indispensably required. His objections remained unaltered; and if he should find no noble lord to entertain his own feeling on the subject, he would divide singly.The Earl of Limerick
911 thought, the House were imperatively called upon to make further inquiry into this transaction. This committee was not called for with any view of contradicting Mr. Powell's evidence, but for the purpose of corroborating it, by a reference to the original
911The Earl of Donoughmore
 said, that he so entirely concurred in the motions as amended by his noble friend, that he had no objection whatever to withdraw his own motion to make room for their adoption. It was, he thought, indispensable for the character of the House that this inquiry into Restelli's journey should go on. The committee would, of course, not enter further into the examination of the original letters than to verify the extracts: to that their examination would, of course, be restricted, and the House might rely with confidence upon the propriety of its committee, and that they would not exceed the limits assigned to them.The Marquis of Lansdown
 said, that if they decided upon going into this inquiry at all, it was, of course, necessary they should go into it effectively; but his difficulty was how they could confine their examination of the originals to a verification of the extracted parts merely relating to Restelli's business. He could not see how the whole of the correspondence could be opened without going further than he thought the House ought to go consistently with the principles of justice.The Earl of Lauderdale
912 said, that the proceedings of the committee ought to be opened as wide as truth required. What was it they were now about to do? It was, in fact, little or nothing, compared with what the case called for. They were by this motion merely calling upon Mr. Powell to make out his own case. As the committee now stood restricted, Mr. Powell would be the committee, and not the noble lords whom the House might
912The Earl of Carnarvon
 with reference to what had fallen from his noble friend who spoke last, observed, that what the House was discussing had nothing* whatever to do with counsel [Hear, hear!] It was merely an inquiry within the House respecting the violation of one of its own orders [Hear!] The intended proceeding was not either a negative one, but rather of an affirmative character; for it was to show whether the evidence given at their bar was correct, according to the documents referred to in that evidence. It was, in fact, to pursue the ends of justice by getting at the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, as connected with a particular part of this transaction.The Marquis of Lansdown,
 said, in explanation, that what he complained of was Mr. Powell's having to make the extracts instead of the committee.The Earl of Carnarvon
43Majority in favour of the motion
43Majority in favour of the motion79Not-contents
79Not-contents122Contents
122Contents
43Majority in favour of the motion
43Majority in favour of the motion79Not-contents
79Not-contents122Contents
122Contents then put the question, that Mr. Powell do produce the extracts of the correspondence between him and colonel Browne relative to Restelli's mission to Milan, and the House divided—
43Majority in favour of the motion
43Majority in favour of the motion79Not-contents
79Not-contents122Contents
122Contents
43Majority in favour of the motion
43Majority in favour of the motion79Not-contents
79Not-contents122Contents
122ContentsThe Lord Chancellor
 submitted, that it became his duty, and a matter of necessity, to make an application on behalf of her majesty, with respect to an inquiry, in which the counsel were allowed to bear a part on Friday and Saturday last, which applied to a material witness of the name of Restelli; that an agent for the prosecution, who appeared to be the person who sent the witness out of the way, was examined, in the course of which examination the House were pleased to direct, that the counsel for and against the bill should have permission to put certain questions to the witness, on the subject matter of the inquiry into his conduct; that the counsel thereby necessarily became parties to the proceeding; that it became necessary for him now to ask for the assistance of their lordships to investigate the obstruction by which they were impeded, by the production of the whole correspondence either to the House or to a committee of the same, and that the counsel for the Queen, who had been allowed to take a part in the examination of Mr. Powell, or some of them, should be permitted to take a part in his further examination upon this subject.Mr. Brougham
915 conceived that Mr. Powell ought to be called in again.
915The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, that, without making any observation, he would merely say Not-content; and he would do so, because he considered the proceeding a most dangerous one.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that the sending Restelli out of the country amounted to a breach of their lordships' order; and that, too, by the agent for the bill. Would not their lordships then inquire into the conduct of that individual?The Marquis of Lansdown
 said, that if any special ground were stated for bringing up Mr. Powell, that might be a question for further consideration; but, at the present moment, he would resist the motion.The Earl of Liverpool
 apprehended, that for the purposes of justice and the attainment of truth, Mr. Powell ought to be examined, and to be ordered to produce the papers which he had in his possession. He thought that, as counsel had been present at his former examination, they ought to be permitted to attend and future examination.The Marquis of Lansdown
916 said, that, their lordships had already called upon the counsel to assist in the inquiry respecting the disappearance of Restelli. That inquiry was not deemed satisfactory. Their lordships discovered that mysteries hung about that transaction which it was necessary to clear away. They established a committee called Select; but it was well understood, that that committee was to be a secret committee; that they were not to divulge their proceedings either to their lordships or to the public. Their lordships, it would seem, were resolved not to communicate with counsel, though they had done so on the former occasion. Their lordships must have had some reason for establishing a committee; the reason was, that their lordships felt that the inquiry was neither complete nor satisfac-
916Lord Holland
917 thought that the obstruction of Restelli should be considered in two points of view; first, as an obstruction to her majesty's defence; and secondly, as a breach of privilege. It was under the first
917Lord Ellenborough
918"Ac velut in somnis oculos ubi languida pressit Nocte quies, nequicquam avidos extendere cursus Velle videmur, et in mediis conatibus ægri Succidimus; non lingua valet, non corpore notæ Suffciunt vires, nee vox nee verba sequuntur." looked upon the obstruction which had taken place as a great injustice towards her majesty; and, in that point of view, he considered that the counsel ought to be allowed to reexamine Mr. Powell. He agreed, that with the case of a breach of privilege alone the counsel had nothing to do; but when an obstruction to the defence of their illustrious client arose out of it, he thought they ought to be allowed a very considerable latitude in their re-examination. He did not think, therefore, that this application could be resisted with that view to substantial justice which the noble earl opposite had enforced on a former occasion. If their lordships should refuse this application, he would exercise his privilege as a peer, and put questions to Mr. Powell on this subject when he came to the bar with the papers. He fully concurred with his noble friend (lord Holland) in his observations on the whole of this unfortunate case; and he would repeat, that it was a disgusting and contemptible proceeding. In this opinion he was more and more confirmed every day. He was firmly convinced, that their difficulties on the subject would increase daily, and that they would never arrive at any satisfactory conclusion. When he came daily to that House, and saw the paraphernalia by which they were surrounded, he doubted whether he was not waking from some feverish dream.
918"Ac velut in somnis oculos ubi languida pressit Nocte quies, nequicquam avidos extendere cursus Velle videmur, et in mediis conatibus ægri Succidimus; non lingua valet, non corpore notæ Suffciunt vires, nee vox nee verba sequuntur."The Earl of Darnley
 stated, that he would now proceed to another part of the case, understanding it to be open to him to resume his application as to taking a part in the examination when it was determined that Mr. Powell should be called.Mr. Brougham
925924923922Mr. Attorney General.921920919 was called in, and having been sworn, was examined as follows by Mr. Tindal, through the Interpretation of the Marchese di Spineto:925924923922Mr. Attorney General.921920919Then Colonel Alessandro Olivieri,
926—You say, count Schiavini left Rome the day after her royal highness, left for Sinigaglia; at what hour did he leave Rome? He set out on the following; evening, together with the equipage.926Lord Ellenborough.
—In what situation was Faustina in her royal highness's family? I think she was charged with keeping of the effects, of the linen j but it is a thing that did not belong to me, and I do not remember. I beg you will say to these noble lords, that I cannot know with certainty, because it was not my own department, and I did not go about inquiring into those details.Earl of Liverpool.
—Where did yon see the Lugano newspaper that first informed you of the proceedings against herroyal highness? At Rome.Earl of Lauderdale.
—Were you acquainted with Sacchi before he entered the service of the princess of Wales? I had known him at Rome.Earl Grey.
913 hoped, in explanation, to be allowed to say, that the documentary evidence was called for to support what Mr. Powell had said at their lordships' bar. The only power which the committee required in furtherance of this ob-
913Earl Grey
 repeated, that he meant simply to confine the committee to a verification of the extracts, by comparing them with the originals; and not to go through the whole correspondence in any way beyond what was actually necessary for the purpose of verification.Earl Grey
908907906de die in diem. said, that he was ready to concur either with the motion which was now in the hands of the learned lord on the woolsack, or in any other motion which should be thought proper for the same purpose. It had been said, that, by entertaining either proposition, he would be countenancing an act of real injustice. He trusted that it was unnecessary for him to say, that he did not go upon any such motive. So far from thinking that the effect of this inquiry would be to produce gross injustice, in his opinion no substantial justice could be done without it. Their lordships, upon the 21st of August, made an order that the witnesses summoned in this cause should attend, 908907906de die in diem.Earl Grey
 observed, that his motion would be so restricted that every noble lord would have full security that the object in view, and that only, would be obtained. In answer to what had fallen from a noble lord, he had only to observe, that it would, in his opinion, be better to proceed as was now proposed, than to allow the imputation which the absence of this witness would cast upon their proceedings. If their lordships were determined not to adopt his amendment, he was determined to propose an immediate suspension of their proceedings. What he now proposed was, first, to move as an amendment to his noble friend's motion, "That Mr. Powell be directed to produce at the bar such extracts from the correspondence between him and colonel Browne as related to the mission of Restelli to Milan." He intended to follow up this motion with another, namely, "That a secret committee should be appointed to inquire into those papers, and report thereon; with power to examine Mr. Powell, in order "to compare his answers at the bar with those extracts." He wished it to be understood that the functions of the committee were to be strictly limited to this inquiry.Earl Grey
 said, his object was, to conduct the inquiry in such a manner as to obviate any objection which might be urged against it. He had no objection, therefore, to take it as it was proposed by the noble lord.Earl Grey
890 said, he would explain the grounds on which he thought the question ought to be put. The first was, on that of the general agency of Sacchi; the second, that of the discredit which would be thrown on his testimony if it should be proved, that he had been engaged in corruptly suborning witnesses. Now, whether it was competent for the counsel for the defence to proceed with the examination on the last ground, he should not then argue, though his opinion was, that enough appeared in Sacchi's evidence to authorize that course But. what he rose to say was,
890Earl Grey
909 said, he would support any motion that had for its object the accounting for this strange mission of Restelli to Milan. The reasons given at their lordships' bar by Mr. Powell were not at all satisfactory to his mind. He should, therefore, consider himself guilty of a gross dereliction of duty, if he did not support any motion, the object of which was to account for this extraordinary transaction—a transaction which,
909Earl Manvers
 begged to say three words in explanation. The noble lord had certainly misunderstood him. He had made no reference whatever to the witness, who was not, at the moment, in his mind, excepting only as regarded the fact of Restelli's absence, which he considered most mysterious and singular. He had no hesitation in saying, that he conceived it was absolutely necessary for Mr. Powell's character, that it should be cleared up. He admitted that there was difficulty in the course proposed, but of two evils he would choose the least, and would prefer the proposed inquiry rather than endure the odium which the circumstance must otherwise draw upon them.Earl Manvers
910 perfectly agreed with those who thought that there was a very great difficulty in this question. On the one hand, he should be the last man in the world to authorize the production of any confidential communication between a principal and his agent; because a line of that description, taken by that House, would be absolutely ruinous to all confidence between man and man. But, under the particular circumstances of this case, notwithstanding Mr. Powell's words and declarations, which he was disposed to take as true, there was something on the face of it which required the House to investigate the whole of the corres-
910The Earl of Harewood
 objected to the original proposition, but maintained that the reference to a secret committee was only a worse way of doing the same thing. He apprehended that their lordships had no right to call on Mr. Powell to betray colonel Browne's confidence. When their lordships called Mr. Powell to the bar, they precluded themselves from doing that which it was now proposed to do. If they intended to call for the correspondence, they should not have gone so far in the examination. That was the principle of every court, in which there was any regularity in the administration of justice. What their lordships were now recommended to do, appeared to him to be an act of gross injustice. He protested against it in every shape; but most especially in the shape of a reference to a secret committee. Rather than that Mr. Powell ought to be required to extract from his letter to colonel Browne, the passages in which he stated his motives for selecting Restelli as the courier to be sent out to Italy (for that was all), and those parts of col. Browne's answer which related to the causes that had prevented Restelli's return.Lord Redesdale
 denied, that any evidence had been adduced which fixed Restelli as an agent for the bill.Lord Redesdale
 said, he concurred fully with what had fallen from the noble earl who had last spoken.The Earl of Hardwicke
891 said, that however strongly he might feel disposed to concur with the opinion of the learned Judges upon a mere question of law, he could not discharge from his mind the reasons which induced him to differ from that opinion, and which he had on former occasions endeavoured to impress upon the House. Even if Sacchi had never been examined as a witness, and if there were no possibility of connecting him in any manner with the Milan commission, he should still be of opinion, that in this bill of Pains and Penalties it was the duty of their lordships to see to what extent the attempts to suborn witnesses had been carried, without reference to technical objections. The interests of justice were paramount to all considerations of the inconvenience which might arise from any technical irregularity; and justice to the illustrious accused demanded that their lordships should hear the evidence against Zancla and others, which might tend to throw light upon the conspiracy, even though that course were against the opinion of the learned Judges, for which he had the greatest respect upon questions merely legal. But it was idle to urge technical objections in a proceeding which bore no analogy, not only to any trial in the courts below, but to any proceeding, pretending to a judicial character, that had ever yet been instituted. We are not here (said his lordship, with great animation) in a court of justice. There was no law to bring the Queen to this trial. The learned Judges had declared, and it was admitted by the noble and learned lord, that the offence with which the Queen was charged was no offence at common law. If the Quean had committed no
891Lord Erskine
 considered the acts of Restelli as having clearly invested him with the character of an agent. As to the argument of the learned lord on the woolsack, that on the principle on which the present motion was founded, the attorney-general might be required to produce his brief, he had only to observe, that the attorney-general was not charged with having been guilty of any contempt of their lordships' orders.Lord Erskine
892 said, that the rules of evidence must be equally applicable on the one side and on the other. Both sides had a right to give evidence of a conspiracy if a conspiracy existed. Suppose, then, it had been stated, that there was a conspiracy to prevent witnesses from appearing on the part of the bill, or to remove some material witness, and that persons could be produced capable of speaking to facts connected with the refusal, would this be sufficient to prove a conspiracy against her majesty's friends, unless it could be shown that it had been done by some authorised agent of the party? For example, it would have availed nothing to show that Mr. Flynn, or any other person known to be in the interest of the Queen, was concerned in such a transaction, unless an authority could be clearly proved. It was necessary that this rule should be borne in mind in all cases, for it was equally necessary to the protection of innocence and the conviction of guilt; and their lordships could never do justice if they adhered to it on one side, and abandoned it on the other. So important did he consider this, that he thought it would be desirable to frame a question for the Judges, founded on the evidence which had been given with respect to agency, and to inquire whether, on such evidence, the question could be put? If they acted inconsistently with the rules acted upon in the courts below, the calumnies sent forth against them in libellous publications would appear to be justified. By adher-
892Lord Manners
—When you returned from Inspruck to Scharnitz, did you immediately upon your arrival at Scharnitz, go into her royal highness's room? Yes.Lord Calthorpe.
955—With very great submission to your lordships I must state that this question cannot be put. The question assumes the witness to have said that Pergami rested in that room, a circumstance which he never had stated.955Mr. Brougham.
—You have stated, that at Munich her royal highness dined with the king of Bavaria, and that you were also present, did her majesty the Queen of Bavaria dine at table on that occasion? She did.Earl of Cathcart.
956—When did you last see the countess Oldi? When I went to fetch her, at Dover.956Earl of Lauderdale.
—Was that the evening that Pergami was indisposed? He went away during the day, being ill; but in the evening he appeared to be no more ill, for he came to accompany us.Earl Grosvenor.
—Did the princess remain in the saloon the whole evening, from her return from dinner till she went out to the evening party? Yes.Earl of Rosebery.
959958 begged to state, why he was not prepared at this hour to call another witness. He then addressed the House in the following terms: "It is of great importance for me to state to your lordships the predicament in which I and the other counsel for her majesty are placed. We have proceeded thus far with the case of our illustrious client—with what success and fulness of evidence it will remain for the House hereafter to decide. But I now have to submit to your lordships, that we find ourselves reduced to the necessity of requiring the assistance of the Court before which we are acting, and to recur to the demand made upon its justice in the outset of this proceeding, or of that part of this proceeding, which consists of the defence of her majesty. Your lordships will recollect, that, in consequence of the desire expressed by the House, we began that defence by calling a witness who had been sent over to bring from Carlsruhe a person of great distinction, and as a witness not only of the highest importance, but of every importance to the Queen's case; who was to prove not only all that was deficient in our evidence, but to negative the testimony of Kress; who was to follow up all that we had urged against the principle and the particular facts of the bill, by showing, what he alone could show, that her majesty was not the person described in the preamble—that she was not given to low habits—that she did not frequent base company—that she did not skulk from the society of her equals—and, above all, that she did not screen herself from intercourse with her friends and-family relations. On the contrary, he was to prove that long after the time to which the evidence for the bill applies—long after her majesty's return from the long voyage—she came into Germany, frequented the courts of her blood-relations and allied connexions, and in their presence placed herself with her suite, whom they received; and that there, and not in Italy, she desired to fix her abode, and had adopted measures for taking a palace, where she might in future remain. She had no wish to skulk from thence, but proposed to stay there for the rest of her days, for aught I know, in the immediate neighbourhood of her serene relatives. After what I have already proved, and after the comments on the testimony on the other side, I should consider this evidence complete, decisive, plenary, and as leaving me not one
959958Mr. Brougham
960 said, that after the long examination of the witness who had just withdrawn, it had appeared to him sufficiently late in the day not to call another. On this account he had risen to move the adjournment, and also to lay on the table, by command of his majesty, the papers to which the learned gentleman had referred. They had been re-
960The Earl of Liverpool
 asked, what course the counsel for her majesty now intended to pursue?Mr. Attorney General
 replied, "I thought it my duty to give the explanation I have afforded why we did not proceed with more evidence to-day. I shall take till the next meeting of the Court to consider what course the counsel for her majesty must now follow."Mr. Brougham
 was called, in order that he might produce his diploma of the order of Saint Caroline; but not being in attendance, the attorney-general of the Queen tendered the same to the House, stating that it came out of the custody of Mr. Vizard the Queen's solicitor. The Counsel were informed, that it must be delivered in by lieutenant Hownam himself.Then Lieutenant Hownam
—You have been directed to attend, to deliver in certain papers sealed, are you prepared to deliver in those papers? In obedience to the orders of the House, I hold in my hands the papers which are required of me, and I beg it may be considered by the House, that my objection to the production of them did not arise from any thing personal to myself, but from a sense of the character in which I stood.Lord Chancellor.
 suggested, that Mr. Powell should be desired to state what the papers were which he had brought.The Marquis of Lansdown
 could not concur in this suggestion. Mr. Powell had received an order of the House to present certain sealed extracts: he had now presented those extracts in the manner ordered by the House. Surely, therefore, it was for the secret committee to which the papers were ordered to be referred, to see if Mr. Powell had complied with their lordships' order. He could not see why the House should at first proceed to put any questions whatever to Mr. Powell.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, that in his opinion the suggestion was a proper one for examining Mr. Powell now as to these papers. He certainly ought to be asked whether the extracts he had brought were the whole of the extracts in colonel Browne's correspondence which related to Restelli's mission, and whether the original letters were also in the House for the verification of the extracts by comparison.The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, his objection was not that proper inquiries should not be made from Mr. Powell for any purpose of verification that might be thought necessary; but that inquiry, he thought, should be left to the secret committee.The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, he could not see upon what grounds the House could now put questions to Mr. Powell. They had ordered that gentleman to produce certain papers, which they had also ordered should be referred to a secret committee. The papers being now in the House, the first step to be taken was to send them to the committee.The Earl of Liverpool
 was of opinion that Mr. Powell should be asked to describe the papers, and to say whether the whole of the extracts were in the sealed parcel.The Earl of Darnley
928 was called in, and having been sworn, was examined as
928Then Tomaso Lago Maggiore
 said, he put the question in order to ascertain whether the witness was quite certain on this point, and, with this view, he conceived that he had a right to put as leading a question as if he were engaged in a cross examination.Mr. Wilde
Mr. Wilde.932931930929Mr. Solicitor General. maintained, that his objection had not been at all answered by what had just been stated. In examining his own witness, if that witness had stated any thing in contradiction to what had been stated by another witness on the same side, such a question might be; but in the present case he maintained the learned counsel had no right to put a leading question.Mr. Wilde.932931930929Mr. Solicitor General.Mr. Solicitor General
—Do you know how the allowance came to be made to your family, for what reason? The government has ordered so.Mr. Wilde.
Su di questo é slato il giuramento.933—He said, when they took down my examination.Su di questo é slato il giuramento.933Mr. Cohen.
—When you took the oath, which you say you have taken, did you hold up your three fingers in this way.Mr. Solicitor General.
—The witness, on cross-examination, had said, that he took an oath, and his learned friends on the other side, in order to do away the effect of that answer on their lordships' minds, had asked him questions as to the forms of oaths in this country.Mr. Solicitor General
 thought, the best way would be, to ask the witness what he did when he took the oath.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that he and his learned friends had put that very question some five or six times; but the witness, whose intellect was not very acute, always went into an account of what he said, about what the princess of Wales said; and thus they did sot seem to make any progress at all.Mr. Brougham
 complained that his learned friends were by no means fair: first, they put their questions to this witness generally, and then, not being answered to their satisfaction, they put particular ones—such as "Was there a book there?" "Did you kiss the cross?" and so on. Surely, then, he was entitled to ask the witness, whether or no he held up his fingers when he swore, which he understood to be the form of the country.Mr. Solicitor General
934 thought there was no occasion for any difficulty on this point. He
934The Lord Chancellor
Lords.—At the time when you say you took the oath, did you hold up your three fingers in this form? No, I did not.Lords.Mr. Solicitor General.
—Did the rowers in this boat sit or stand? They stood.Lord Ellenborough.
—Have you of late years found any defect in your eyes? About two years since they began to fail; I had been ill.Earl of Laderdale.
About two feet.935—You have stated, you rowed the oar nearest to her royal high-
About two feet.935Earl of Cathcart.
—Are the silver Napoleons, which you have mentioned having been allowed for the daily subsistence, what are commonly called five-franc pieces? No, they are called Napoleons.Marquis of Buckingham.
Lords.l.l.953952951950949948947946945944943Mr. Attorney General.942941940939938937936 was called in, and having been sworn, was examined as follows, by Mr. Denman, through the Interpretation of the Marchese di Spineto.Lords.l.l.953952951950949948947946945944943Mr. Attorney General.942941940939938937936Then Chevalier Carlo Vassali
954—Do you know whether any person slept in the princess's room at Scharnitz? No.954Earl of Liverpool.
—Did you say that Carlo Forti was first taken into her royal highness's service at Loretto? I said that Carlo Forti entered her royal highness's service at Rome, and that previously he set out from Loretto with a dispatch.Lord Ellenborough.
—Did he travel in her royal highness's suite in her journey from Milan to Loretto? From Milan to Loretto, he travelled in the suite of her royal highness.Earl Grey.
—Did you ever take an oath before any tribunal at any time? No.Earl Grey.
 thought, that at present the plain course for their lordships was to send the papers to the secret committee. It would be quite time enough for the House to take the matter up when the committee had made their report.Earl Grey
—From your knowledge of Demont, was she a person to whose word you would trust?A Peer.
—Did yon recollect from Demont's conversation, that she was with the princess of Wales at the time she received the news of the princess Charlotte's death? I believed that; but I did not ask her about it; I asked her if she would return to the princess, and she answered yes; she told me, that she was on leave of absence, because the suite of the princess were in mourning.Earl of Lauderdale.
990 after referring to what he had stated on Saturday as to the difficulties imposed upon her majesty's counsel, which, however, he did not impute to the conduct of government, they having done as much as was in their power to remove them, though without effect, reminded their lordships, that such difficulties had been experienced with regard to the bringing over of witnesses in support of the defence. Their lordships' process did not run abroad, unfortunately for them, however effectual it might have
990Mr. Brougham,
Lords.992991 was again called in, and further examined by Mr. Tindal, as follows:Lords.992991Then James Leman
—After you had prevailed on the baron d'Ende to ask permission of the grand duke to come to England, had you any reason to make you not think it very important that the baron d'Ende should come as a witness to this country.Earl of Liverpool.
993—Did baron d'Ende appear to you, when you saw him, to be in per-
993Earl of Darnley.
996***995bonâ fide994 addressed their lordships as follows:—My lords; I have given your lordships an instance at least, and a very remarkable one, of the difficulties which oppress her majesty in further prosecuting her defence. I nave shown your ford ships in what way those difficulties have arisen in this case, without throwing blame upon any person in this country. It is a blame attachable to the proceeding itself. You cannot pursue an inquiry of this sort one step further, doing equal justice to both parties. One party has the means of obtaining witnesses, whether as the English government or as the Hanoverian government. Kress has sworn that she was compelled to come by baron Berstett, who, to say the least of it, does not compel baron d'Ende to come; who tells him, "if you choose to ask your congá"—an ominous sound in the ear of a courtier, for that conge, which may strike many who hear me to the very heart, if they will only put themselves into the situation of the baron d'Ende, means either leave to go, or no permission to come back; it is the leave which his majesty gives to a faithful servant when he never wishes to see his face again—it is accompanied by the same words—if you ask for your dismission (for ministers ask for their dismission, they are never turned out), if you ask to retire, your wish is complied with by the sovereign. In France, if you wish to go to your house in the country, you are told you may go. So the baron d'Ende is told by Berstett, "you may go to London or any where else you please;" but he does not say, "and back to Carlsruhe." This word "conge" is expressly used—this word of ill omen; and he takes the hint. I do not mean to impute any falsehood to the baron on this occasion, that he felt ill; for I verily believe that he felt ill—that he no sooner saw this word congá written in fair German characters, than that heart upon which he put Mr. Leman's hand was attacked with a second spasm, and that if Mr. Leman had been there, he would have found the second set the first at defiance. How different, my lords, was
996***995bonâ fide994Mr. Brougham
 next moved, that the note from baron de Berstett to Mr. Lamb, dated Carlsruhe, Oct. 13, in page 5 of the correspondence upon their lordships' table (for which see p. 963.) be now read.Lord Holland,
 said, he had no specific motion to make, but he could not reconcile it to his duty at this particular stage of the proceedings, to allow their lordships to go on without calling their attention, in the most formal and solemn manner, to that part of the evidence which had just been read.Lord Holland
—My lords, I have only to add, that we fling ourselves once more upon the House, that, under such circumstances as those of which the House is now cognisant, and with the recollection of what passed upon the former in stance in the matter of Restelli, we feel it utterly impossible to proceed farther in her majesty's defence.Mr. Brougham.
—Do you call any witnesses on the other side?Lord Chancellor.
—Undoubtedly, my lords, it is my intention to call wit nesses to contradict some of the facts which have been adduced in evidence on the part of her majesty; but, my-lords, I think it right——Mr. Attorney General.
—Such witnesses as you are intitled, upon principles of law, to call in reply, you will of course be at liberty to tender.Lord Chancellor.
.—My lords, undoubtedly it is to such witnesses alone that I allude.Mr. Attorney General
—The Counsel for her majesty cannot be called upon to sum up the evidence, until such witnesses have been adduced. Whether they are of that character, the court cannot decide until they are called.Lord Chancellor.
999—999Mr. Attorney General
—And now I ask, whether your lordships are a Court of justice? [These words were delivered with a vehemence of tone and manner which seemed to produce an electrical effect throughout the House].Mr. Brougham.
10011000—10011000Mr. Solicitor General
10041003forAgainst1002—10041003forAgainst1002Mr. Brougham;
—Not a syllable of it.Mr. Attorney General.
10061005—Whether they had or had not makes not the least difference. They were aware of his name; they knew he was to appear, and they put question after question—I am in the recollection of your lordships whether they did not—as to declarations he had made to colonel
10061005Mr. Brougham
101010091008primâ facie1007—101010091008primâ facie1007Mr. Denman:
10121011—10121011Mr. Attorney General.
—I beg your pardon, I said no such thing. I said it might become necessary for my case, and that I might be furnished with such evidence.Mr. Denman.
101510141013—Then, have my
101510141013Mr. Attorney General.
1016 said, they had now arrived at a most important stage of these proceedings; and if no particular circumstances had arisen, he took it for granted that they would now have gone on in the regular and ordinary course. The attorney-general, he conceived, had acted perfectly right in making the proposal which he had done, and her majesty's counsel were equally justified in opposing it. In his opinion, witnesses of the description alluded to, might be called, under the limitations and restrictions which must always apply to testimony so introduced at their bar. He owned, that the subject came somewhat hastily before him; but unless he very much forgot what had previously occurred, many of those among their lordships who thought fit to allow the evidence to be produced which had been given towards the close of this proceeding, argued for the admission of that testimony, on the express supposition that time would be given for the appearance of colonel Browne. He felt bound to state that, as one of the grounds for the motion he intended to submit. If the attorney-general had been justified in requiring delay the other side had been equally warranted in resisting it; but whether the application should or should not be granted, remained for the House to determine. The application had been made upon two grounds, and he begged to preface the statement of them by observing, that, in the course of the argument just concluded, many topics had been urged to which at this moment it would not be proper for him to refer, but which must be most gravely discussed and considered by their lordships hereafter. The two grounds were—first, the charge against the character of colonel Browne; and, secondly, with reference to the bearing of his evidence on this inquiry. The House was able to appreciate in what way and to what degree the character of colonel Browne was implicated; but, with regard to the second ground, and what
1016The Lord Chancellor
 objected to this line of examination being pursued. His noble friend had not, seemingly, attended to the arguments of the learned counsel at the bar.The Earl of Lauderdale
Lords.989Williams.l.l.l.l.l.988987986Mr. Solicitor General.985femme libertine et galante:double entendres said, their lordships were not at present called upon to decide upon the justice of his noble and learned friend, but to pronounce as to the admissibility of the evidence now proposed by the Queen's counsel. His lordship said—I may be mistaken, but I consider it evidence brought to affect the general credit of Demont, and therefore admissible. It is, indeed, the more necessary to receive such evidence, when the general character, and particularly the occasional forgetfulness and Lords.989Williams.l.l.l.l.l.988987986Mr. Solicitor General.985femme libertine et galante:double entendresThe Lord Chancellor
 stated, that in consequence of a communication of the wish of the counsel for her majesty, Louisa Demont, who was at her lodgings in London, had been sent for, but that he had been informed that Mr. Vizard had mentioned to Mr. Maule, that he should not want her before twelve o'clock, and that Mr. Maule had gone away with that impression.Mr. Solicitor General
primâ facie971 begged to tender that which he could not in an ordinary trial do, being aware that it would be defective in that proceeding; but he hoped their lordships in regard of the particular nature of the inquiry in which they were now engaged, and more especially with relation to the charge contained in the preamble of the bill against her majesty, would be pleased to receive it in evidence: that it being alleged in the preamble of
primâ facie971Mr. Brougham
972Her royal highness the princess of Wales left this city the 16th of this month, at five o'clock in the evening, for her delightful country residence on the lake of Como."In a subsequent number of the same paper, dated the 19th of the same month, is the following article:—"In the evening, our new grand theatre, where the exalted princess went to the grand spectacle of a new opera, was, in honour of her royal highness, speedily illuminated."The princess of Wales, the wife of his royal highness the prince regent of England, in passing the Higher Germany, arrived in this city yesterday about midday.Trieste 16th April."Trieste 16th April.The following are the Extracts from the Trieste Observer, of April, 1817:— said, it was im-
972Her royal highness the princess of Wales left this city the 16th of this month, at five o'clock in the evening, for her delightful country residence on the lake of Como."In a subsequent number of the same paper, dated the 19th of the same month, is the following article:—"In the evening, our new grand theatre, where the exalted princess went to the grand spectacle of a new opera, was, in honour of her royal highness, speedily illuminated."The princess of Wales, the wife of his royal highness the prince regent of England, in passing the Higher Germany, arrived in this city yesterday about midday.Trieste 16th April."Trieste 16th April.The following are the Extracts from the Trieste Observer, of April, 1817:—Mr. Attorney General
 contended, that these papers had not been offered for the ostensible purpose of showing how the princess of Wales had been received at Trieste, but for the purpose of affording his learned friend an opportunity of making the statement he had done respecting the time of her royal highness's arrival and departure from Trieste. That, he was satisfied, was the only reason his learned friend had for offering those two newspapers to the consideration of their lordships. What effect this attempt might have on their lordships' minds it was not for him to decide; but it was, impossible not to see, that the sole object aimed at in producing these papers was to make, collaterally, an impression which his learned friend could not make directly. It was admitted, even by his learned friend, that the evidence could not be received in the courts below, and he was confident that their lordships would reject it.Mr. Solicitor General
973 said, he had stated that he did not think these papers evidence which could be received in a court of justice; but he thought they might go for something in a proceeding out of such a court. He was not here as in a court of justice. In a court of justice, he could have objected to the members of a grand jury afterwards becoming part of the jury to try the case—in a court of justice, he would have had his right of challenge against the jurors—in a court of justice, he would have been allowed to prove declarations made by jurors in hostility to his client—in a court of justice, he might
973Mr. Brougham
 said, that it was the opinion of the House the paper tendered could not be given in evidence.The Lord Chancellor
 was again called in, and farther examined as follows, by the Attorney General.Then Lieutenant Joseph Robert Hownam
 stated, in reference to a farther examination of Louisa Demont, that he had to request the indulgence of the House to agree to the application he was about to make in that respect; that he had no idea of calling the witness, to prove any substantive fact on the part of her majesty, but to ask her to certain facts, with a view, if she admitted them, to have the benefit of them, and if not, to call evidence to contradict her.Mr. Denman
980979Lord Chancellor978977976** was again called in. and farther examined by the Lords, through the interpretation of Mr. Pinario, the questions being suggested by Mr. Williams:980979Lord Chancellor978977976**Then Louisa Demont
—Has she said any thing in the course of her examination about her being sworn?The Lord Chancellor.
—Oh! yes, my lord, doubtless.Mr. Williams
—You said to-day that you were calling the witness to speak to her deposition; either, I suppose, with a view to her general evidence, so as to affect it in some way or other, or to disprove particular assertions. If it be for any other object, I must confess I do not see the necessity of going into fresh matter in this stage of the proceeding. If your object be, to open such a case, however (and I do not say that you may not do so), explain to their lordships the manner in which you propose to do it; and first of all, as the ground of this question, satisfy the House that the witness has spoken of her being before sworn.The Lord Chancellor.
—In her evidence, my lord she uses the very terms;, she says she has been sworn.Mr. Williams.
981 directed that part of her former evidence to be read. It was as follows:981The Lord Chancellor
—Do you recollect the day of the month on which you left the service of her royal highness at Pesaro? It was in the beginning of November, but I do not recollect the day.Earl of Lauderdale.
 said, he had to offer a few words to their lordships previously to the introduction of another witness. Would their lordships allow another witness to be called, and order that Demont should remain at the bar during the examination of that individual?Mr. Brougham
 said, this was so unusual, that Mr. Brougham must first inform the House for what purpose he asked the indulgence.The Lord Chancellor.
—It may be very likely, my lords, that when Demont sees the next witness, she may give a different sort of answer to the questions which have been put to her.Mr. Brougham.
982 apprehended that his learned friend was by no means entitled to ask this of the House. It was the counsel for the bill who were entitled to demand that a witness on the other side should be confronted by one of their's; but his learned friend was not authorized to expect this concession, unless he was
982Mr. Solicitor General
 observed, that it would be something extraordinary, if, in so unusual a case, he applied for usual concessions only. He was willing, however, to wave his request.Mr. Brougham
 was called in, and having been sworn, was examined by Mr. Williams as follows, through the interpretation of Mr. Pinario:Then Fanchette Martigner
983 put it to their lordships, whether, if the object of calling this witness was to affect the credit of Demont,
983Mr. Attorney General
 stated, that he did not offer it as affecting the credit of Demont generally, hut in contradiction of her testimony, that she had not said any thing as to what passed in the house of her royal highness until she was put upon her oath.Mr. Brougham
 observed, that this answer referred solely to the conduct of the princess towards Pergami.The Solicitor General
 said, that from what the preamble of the bill stated, from what every witness stated, it appeared that the object was, to impute to the Queen an improper connexion with Pergami; and as that imputation rested so much upon the testimony of Demont, it was most material that the evidence which was now tendered in contradiction to that testimony, should be received by their lordships.Mr. Williams
1017 agreed, that the delay until the next meeting of the House was desirable for the satisfaction of all parties, that not only the noble and learned lord, but other peers, might, in the interval, weigh well the grounds on which the application was made. To one point he wished to address a few words, namely, the statement of the noble and learned lord, that a sort of admission had been made by the House generally that some delay might be necessary after the conclusion of the case for the Queen, in order to enable the other side to bring forward witnesses in contradiction. He recollected making no such admission, for neither then nor at any time since had a further postponement for such a purpose entered into his
1017Earl Grey
—In your conversation with mademoiselle Demont, did you ask her any questions respecting the manner in which the princess was affected by the death of her daughter the princess Charlotte? Yes.Earl of Harrowby.
 retorted, that he had attended both to the arguments of the learned counsel and those of the noble lord on the woolsack, in which latter he completely concurred. He was astonished at the assertion of his noble friend.Lord Erskine
 contended, that it was a proper question, for the purpose of leading to a contradiction of Demont. The objection of the counsel for the bill appeared to him to confound the distinction between the admissibility and the effect of the evidence now offered. He conceived that, at all events, it was clearly admissible, though its effect would be for the after-consideration of their lordships.Lord Erskine
—Do you know whether mademoiselle Demont is acquainted with your husband? No, not at all.Earl of Darlington.
1020—When your lordships separated yesterday, a question had arisen as to an application made by the attorney general to stay proceedings in the important case before us. Your lordships determined that you would take until this morning to consider the subject. With a view to forming my own individual opinion on the question, which opinion I am now about to state to your lordships, I have read through the whole of the Minutes of Evidence as far as they relate to colonel Browne. In the first place, I repeat that which I yesterday said, that the attorney general could do no other than prefer the request which he preferred to your lordships, and that if he had not done so, he would not have done his duty. In the second place, I also certainly think, that it was exceedingly right and proper on the part of the counsel for her majesty to resist the application so made. My lords, it has been my endeavour, since we separated, attentively to consider the evidence in question, simply and purely with reference to what is required by justice. My own individual opinion is, and it is the opinion by which I shall of course be myself governed, that considerations of justice do not require the delay that is sought from us. The grounds on which I have formed this opinion are these. Referring to all the evidenced support of the bill on the Minutes which relates to colonel Browne, and looking merely at the matter of that evidence, I do not think that we should do justice if we stayed our proceedings. But, in addition to the opinion, that the matter of that evidence does not warrant our staying proceedings, I am also of opinion, that if the matter of that evidence did make it fit that colonel Browne, should be called to the bar, yet, recollecting, that that evidence was given two months ago, it appears to me, that it would not be doing justice to her majesty, even, as I have said, if the matter of the evidence were not that which I consider it to be, to con-
1020The Lord Chancellor.
1021 perfectly concurred with the noble and learned lord. If the proceeding were to go on at all, the opinion which that noble and learned lord had adopted on the particular point at issue, was certainly the one most consistent with justice. He repeated, that if the proceedings were to go on at all, the proposition made by the noble and learned lord was indisputably that which their lordships ought to adopt. But what he had risen for was, to state his astonishment with reference to the particular part of the evidence to which the noble and learned lord had alluded, that no individual, even on the ministerial side of the House, and he in his conscience believed, that there were many individuals on that side of the House who agreed in opinion with him on the subject, had risen and proposed an immediate termination of the business. He would take the present opportunity of entering his solemn protest against any further proceeding, on three grounds, any one of which, if their lordships were really determined to do that substantial justice of which the country had heard so much, ought, in his opinion, 4o induce them to
1021The Earl of Darnley
LordsMr. Attorney General10251024Brougham1023Thomas Briggs1022 thought nothing could be more clear than this, that the proceedings ought not to be suspended on account of colonel Browne. He must also say, that he could not consider it proper that their lordships' should enter into any discussion on colonel Browne's merits. Colonel Browne might be a very deserving officer; but if it were right for any noble lord to pronounce a long panegyric on his services, it might be permitted to another to state what he thought of the conduct of colonel Browne in certain transactions as they stood on their lordships' Journals.
LordsMr. Attorney General10251024Brougham1023Thomas Briggs1022Lord Holland
 stated, that as the case now stood, he should not trouble the House with any more witnesses.Mr. Attorney General
 stated, that it naturally arose for him to say, whether he had any evidence in rejoinder to give in this case, to rebut any thing which had now been proved, and that under the circumstances in which he was now placed, he had no evidence to tender.Mr. Brougham
 expressed a wish, before the counsel for the Queen summed-up, that he might be allowed to recall lieutenant Hownam.The Duke of Somerset
 said, that as this might be opening a wide field of inquiry, it would be well if the noble duke would state the reasons on which he grounded his proposition.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that the purpose for which he wished Mr. Hownam to be recalled was, to examine him more particularly as to the incident of the tent on board the polacre. He thought that he might possibly be able to explain the arrangements in the interior of the tent, in a clearer manner than had been yet done.The Duke of Somerset
 said, he had not the slightest objection to lieut. Hownam's being recalled, nor would he now enter into any argument with reference to the right of noble lords to recall him. He wished, however, to call their attention to what this new re-examination must naturally lead. If one witness were recalled, to state more particularly any minor facts, all the witnesses might be recalled for the same purpose; and yet, if they were all to be recalled, their authority would be no greater than it was before. He begged leave, therefore, to suggest to the noble duke that it would be better, both for the sake of convenience and of regularity, that the examinations which had been closed, should rest where they did at present.The Earl of Liverpool
 perfectly concurred in the observations of lord Liverpool. If the proposed course were to be pursued, every witness might be recalled who had not clearly and conclusively established any particular fact to which he had been interrogated. He was sure the noble duke would abstain from a course which might be productive of such inconvenience.The Marquis of Lansdown
1027 did not wish to
1027The Duke of Somerset
, for the same prudential reasons, declined making a similar application for the like object.Earl Grosvenor
 asked, whether her majesty's counsel were ready to proceed in summing up the case?The Lord Chancellor
 answered, that he understood from his learned friend, Mr. Denman, that he was now ready to proceed, in order to save the time of their lordships.Mr. Brougham
*1072107110701069106810671066***106510641063lversus106210611060***10591058corpus delicti1057***1056***1055***'non mi ricordo;''piu no:'non so:'non mi ricordos"Non mi ricordo,"1054‡ See Vol. 2, p. 814. See p. p. 426, and 497, of the present Volume.† See p. 498 of the present Volume.***1053**primâ facie*1052‡ Ibid, p. 807.† See Vol. 2, p. 808.***10511050***1049***1048***1047***10461045***1044§ Ibid, p. 1118.† Ibid, p. 363. ‡ See Vol. 2, p. 808.***1043‡ Ibid, p. 406.† Ibid, p. 333, and p. 347.***1042***1041† Ibid. p. 1349.***"Calumniando semper aliquid erat"1040***1039103810371036****10351034103310321031103010291028 then proceeded to sum up the Evidence on behalf of her majesty, as follows:—*1072107110701069106810671066***106510641063lversus106210611060***10591058corpus delicti1057***1056***1055***'non mi ricordo;''piu no:'non so:'non mi ricordos"Non mi ricordo,"1054‡ See Vol. 2, p. 814. See p. p. 426, and 497, of the present Volume.† See p. 498 of the present Volume.***1053**primâ facie*1052‡ Ibid, p. 807.† See Vol. 2, p. 808.***10511050***1049***1048***1047***10461045***1044§ Ibid, p. 1118.† Ibid, p. 363. ‡ See Vol. 2, p. 808.***1043‡ Ibid, p. 406.† Ibid, p. 333, and p. 347.***1042***1041† Ibid. p. 1349.***"Calumniando semper aliquid erat"1040***1039103810371036****10351034103310321031103010291028Mr. Denman
—My lords, if it should be the wish of the learned counsel to retire during the course of the morning, probably this would be as convenient a season as any.The Earl of Lauderdale.
1073† See p. 500 of the present Volume.**—Certainly, Mr. Denman, it must be the wish of every noble lord that you should have an opportunity of delivering your self in a mode most consistent with your own convenience, and with the reservation of your strength. If
1073† See p. 500 of the present Volume.**The Lord Chancellor.
10951094My lords;10931092109110901089108810871086108510841083cedunt arma togœ108210811080primâ facie10791078107710761075bonâ fide1074—If your lordship pleases, for about half an hour.10951094My lords;10931092109110901089108810871086108510841083cedunt arma togœ108210811080primâ facie10791078107710761075bonâ fide1074Mr. Deuman.
1019vivâ voce1018 addressed their lordships to the following effect:—My lords, as we may now entertain a hope that we approach the termination of the proceedings which have consumed so much of our time, whether for good or for evil, this is not the proper opportunity for remarking, I think it right to call your lordships' attention to a point which I propose to bring under your consideration at the most convenient period for that purpose, which will probably be immediately after the conclusion of the case. If your lordships will refer to the 373rd page of Phillipps's "Law of Evidence," you will there find the following passage:—"As informations, when judicially and regularly taken, are evidence against the prisoner, if the informant dies before the trial; so, on the other hand, where the informant himself gives evidence, the informations may be used on the part of the prisoner, to contradict his testimony. One of the objects of the legislature in passing the statutes, was, to enable the judge and jury, before whom the prisoner is tried, to see whether the witnesses at the trial are consistent with the account given by them before the committing magistrate. Thus, it was admitted in lord Strafford's case, that the depositions of a witness, taken before a justice of the peace, might be
1019vivâ voce1018Earl Grey
—When the conversation took place between yourself and lieutenant Hownam, did any thing pass which indicated the period or place at which Pergami first dined with her royal highness? No.Earl of Morley.
1026—Did lieutenant Hownam or not state to you, that the first time at which Pergami dined at the table of her royal highnes, it arose from circumstances that occurred accidentally at the moment, or in consequence of the previous arrangement? I understood him to be giving an answer to a question I had asked him, and I understood it to have happened on the day the change took place from his being a servant to becoming a companion.1026Earl of Morley.
 concurred with the noble and learned lord on the woolsack, that under all the circumstances of the case, the House ought not to adjourn. He had thought it his duty, from his having had the honour to form an acquaintance with colonel Browne, to look carefully into all the evidence that affected his character; and having done this, though he thought it very hard upon colonel Browne to be denied an opportunity of vindicating his character before that assembly he could come to no other conclusion; and, in his judgment the House could pursue no other course, than that which had been recommended to them this day. He was the more confirmed in this opinion, as he understood, from what had passed in some of the discussions which had taken place, when several attacks were made on colonel Browne, that at some future time an inquiry could take place into the facts charged against that individual. For colonel Browne, he must say, that he knew him to be a gallant officer, and an honourable man. He had seen a great deal of service, had been 14 years a subaltern, and had been wounded in action not fewer than six or seven times.Marquis Camden
—You were understood to say, you had kept no memorandum of the conversation that passed at that period between you and lieutenant Hownam; you were also understood to say it was in the month of November in the year 1815, being now five years since the conversation passed; have the goodness to say whether you think that you can recollect private conversations that have passed five years since, common conversations between you and another? Generally speaking, I cannot; but I have a perfect remembrance of that, from the circumstance of having called his attention to what captain Pechell had told me.Earl of Darlington.
115611551154115311521151† See Vol.2, p. 1264.***1150***11491148***1147***1146***1145***1144† See p. 511 of the present Volume.****1143**1142***1141membrum virile,11401139† Ibid, p. 937.***11381137†See Vol. 2, p. 1316.***1136tutoyétoi1135***ex-parte1134***11331132113111301129***1128†See p. 938 of the present Volume.****11271126***1125**11241123†Ibid, p. 1271.***11221121****1120111911181117***1116***11151114***1113***1112primâ facie1111***1110***1109***1108***1107***1106**1105***1104†See Vol. 2, p. 903.***1103110211011100109910981097† See p. 344 of the present volume.***1096 resumed—115611551154115311521151† See Vol.2, p. 1264.***1150***11491148***1147***1146***1145***1144† See p. 511 of the present Volume.****1143**1142***1141membrum virile,11401139† Ibid, p. 937.***11381137†See Vol. 2, p. 1316.***1136tutoyétoi1135***ex-parte1134***11331132113111301129***1128†See p. 938 of the present Volume.****11271126***1125**11241123†Ibid, p. 1271.***11221121****1120111911181117***1116***11151114***1113***1112primâ facie1111***1110***1109***1108***1107***1106**1105***1104†See Vol. 2, p. 903.***1103110211011100109910981097† See p. 344 of the present volume.***1096Mr. Denman
116411631162***1161***1160***11591158***1157.—If your lordships will indulge me with half an hour—I will not be quite so long.116411631162***1161***1160***11591158***1157Mr. Denman
.—What is the paper?Earl of Darnley
"Should be as holy as severe:"—"He who the sword of Heaven would bear,"We kept together in our chivalry:"—"In this glorious and well-foughten field1184118311821181118011791178primâ facie1177primâ facieprimâ facie117611751174bonâ fide11731172protégé1171117011691168***1167***11661165—The "Morning Post." Now, my lords, upon the subject of this Milan commission—supposing there had been a disposition to get evidence at all risks, and at any price, would it have been possible to resort to better agents for the purpose, than the discarded servants of her royal highness—those who had been discharged from her service by the individual charged with her—and those who would bear malice against her as well as that individual? Would it have been possible to resort to better agents—more active friends—than the Restellis—the Sacchis—and the Majoochis? And would it be possible to apply to a better source for confirmation, than to Demont, who had been for three years in constant attendance upon her person, in every place she visited? I think, when those great powers were spoken of, which we are in utter ignorance of, in regard to the commission, it would have been fit to take care that the commissioners should not have the power of proceeding in the way they have appeared to proceed, and that of all the persons who could be employed to get up witnesses and facts, in all the quarters to which application was made, it was quite impossible to find an individual more unfit for the object, if truth was the object, or more fit, if falsehood was the object, than Restelli, whose absence we have so much reason to deplore. When he comes, with new witnesses and new information—when he has recruited a new set of spies and informers and traitors, ready to depose to any thing—how different will be our state to that which it
"Should be as holy as severe:"—"He who the sword of Heaven would bear,"We kept together in our chivalry:"—"In this glorious and well-foughten field1184118311821181118011791178primâ facie1177primâ facieprimâ facie117611751174bonâ fide11731172protégé1171117011691168***1167***11661165Mr. Denman
1185 said, that he should now consider the case on the part of her majesty closed, if the attorney-general did not intend to reply by more than one counsel. If he did, he should beg till to-
1185Mr. Brougham
 said, that it was his intention to avail himself of the assistance of his learned friend, the solicitor-general, to which he was fully entitled, as his learned friends had both spoken in opening their case.The Attorney General
 said, it was the rule to hear two counsel on the respective sides, and that one party, by waving his claim, did not deprive the other of his right.The Lord Chancellor
 said, that as the attorney-general did not mean this privilege, Dr. Lushington would address their lordships to-morrow morning.Mr. Brougham
.—If Mr. Denman wishes to withdraw, perhaps this would be a convenient time.The Earl of Darlington
1214***121312121211primâ facie1210***120912081207120612051204***12031202***12011200‡ Ibid, p. 920.† See p. 512 of the present Volume.***1199† See p. 425 of the present Volume.***11981197***119611951194****119311921191v.1190v.1189118811871186 addressed their lordships as follows:1214***121312121211primâ facie1210***120912081207120612051204***12031202***12011200‡ Ibid, p. 920.† See p. 512 of the present Volume.***1199† See p. 425 of the present Volume.***11981197***119611951194****119311921191v.1190v.1189118811871186Dr. Lushington
—Would Dr. Lushington wish for an opportunity of refreshment.The Earl of Liverpool.
bonâ fide123812371236123512341233****1232**1231**1230**propriâ personâ;*1229***12281227***1226122512241223***1222***122112201219*121812171216—A little time, if your lordships please.bonâ fide123812371236123512341233****1232**1231**1230**propriâ personâ;*1229***12281227***1226122512241223***1222***122112201219*121812171216Dr. Lushington.
—My lords, I here close the Defence of her Majesty.Mr. Brougham.
1254† See pp. 347 and 361 of the present Volume.***125312521251***1250† See p. 409, of the present Volume.***12491248***12471246124512441243124212411240 was heard in Reply, as follows:—1254† See pp. 347 and 361 of the present Volume.***125312521251***1250† See p. 409, of the present Volume.***12491248***12471246124512441243124212411240Mr. Attorney General
.—How does that appear?Mr. Denman
.—I will show your lordships how that fact is proved by Dr. Holland. I thank my learned friend for interrupting me, if he thinks I misstate. I should despise myself, if I could wilfully misstate—I feel it my duty only to bring the facts before you, as I conceive they are proved. I say the case is not, that her majesty went to a masquerade, or went disguised, but that she went to that masquerade, accompanied by Demont and Bergami, instead of being accompanied by the gentlemen or ladies of her suite. My lords, Demont proves that case; she states the dress her majesty wore, and the way in which she went. I am told there is nothing in her majesty's going in a rainy night across the garden, and then in a hired carriage, instead of in her own carriage, and accompanied by her own suite—but what does Dr. Holland state? He states in p. 611, "Were you ever at a masquerade at the Theatre San Carlos when her royal highness was there? I was. With whom did she go there? I was not aware till the following morning that her royal highness had been there.Mr. Attorney General
.—How does it appear that that was the same night?Mr. Denman
12621261non mi ricordos1260***à boire, madame1259***125812571256***fille de chambre1255***.—"Did you remain there during the whole or nearly the whole of the performance? Only about an hour, as far as I can recollect; certainly a short time."—"Are you to be understood that you do not know with whom her royal highness went to the theatre that evening?" "I do not."12621261non mi ricordos1260***à boire, madame1259***125812571256***fille de chambre1255***Mr. Attorney General
.—Quite the contrary, indeed.Mr. Denman
non mi ricordos1273127212711270***1269***12681267***1266this126512641263***.—I am told he expressly said the contrary, therefore I will refer to it, at page 13. "Did you wait upon them at breakfast? Sometimes I did; sometimes I did not." "When you did not, who did wait? Either Louis Pergami or Camera."non mi ricordos1273127212711270***1269***12681267***1266this126512641263***Mr. Attorney General
.—Perhaps this will be as convenient a time as any, if the learned counsel wishes for a short interval.Earl of Lauderdale
.—If your lord ships please.Mr. Attorney General
.—Before your lordships separate, will you allow Mr. Brougham to be sent for? He has an application to make to your lordships, which he thinks it essential to make at this moment.Mr. Denman
1274.—My lords, I should think I did not discharge my duty, if I delayed one moment longer than the necessity of the case required, stating to your lordships, that while my learned friend, the attorney-general, has been engaged in his able argument, a most important communication has been made to me. My lords, I have no right, certainly, to produce evidence, but I have letters, original letters, in the hand-writing of the baron Ompteda, signed by him, "Ompteda, Ministre d'Hanover,"—proving him to have been, at the date of those letters, in correspondence with the household of her majesty, attempting to seduce them, looking out for individuals to seduce, and among others, Mariette Bron;—and that I may answer to the question, Why do you not call Mariette Bron? My lords,
1274Mr. Brougham
.—My lords; in the first place, they are not evidence, and, in the next place, there never was an application attempted to be made at such a period of the case.Mr. Attorney General
.—My lords, I was as much taken by surprise as any of your lordships; at all events, this certainly is not the period to produce them.The Earl of Liverpool
.—My lords, I thought it my duty, immediately on receiving them, to communicate them to your lordships, lest it should be attributed to me that I kept them back—it is important, as showing that I was right in my suspicions as to Mariette Bron.Mr. Brougham
1304***1303***non mi ricordo13021301non mi ricordosnon mi ricordonon mi ricordos1300129912981297129612951294129312921291ll1290128912881287***non mi ricordo1286† See Vol. 2, p. 820.****1285128412831282† See Vol. 2, p. 1138.***12811280† See Vol. 2, p. 1203.***12791278Moncœur, mon ami;1277***1276† See p. 1023 of the present Volume.***1275.—My lords; it is not my intention to be diverted from the course of observations I was pursuing, when last I had the pleasure of addressing your lordships, by one of the most extraordinary applications that I believe was ever before heard in a court of justice, and in the middle of a reply. I shall have occasion to observe upon that, in another part of the observations which I have to make to your lordships; but I shall now pursue the evidence where I was interrupted by the indulgence which your lordships have been kind enough to grant me.1304***1303***non mi ricordo13021301non mi ricordosnon mi ricordonon mi ricordos1300129912981297129612951294129312921291ll1290128912881287***non mi ricordo1286† See Vol. 2, p. 820.****1285128412831282† See Vol. 2, p. 1138.***12811280† See Vol. 2, p. 1203.***12791278Moncœur, mon ami;1277***1276† See p. 1023 of the present Volume.***1275Mr. Attorney General
*1305 proceeded as follows:—*1305Mr. Attorney General
.—Have you done with that part of the case.Lord Chancellor
.—Yes, my lord, I was going to another part of the case.Mr. Attorney General
 stated, in explanation, that it was his lordship who had moved to have the examination of sir John Beresford, not to support or contradict Carrington, but to ascertain the truth; and in which motion the House had concurred.Earl Grey
1312***1311‡ See p. 939 of the present Volume.† See p. 528 of the present Volume.**13101309***1308***13071306** continued:—1312***1311‡ See p. 939 of the present Volume.† See p. 528 of the present Volume.**13101309***1308***13071306**Mr. Attorney General
—She had sat upon the bed.Mr. Denman
*13391338ergo,1337***1336† See p. 566 of the present Volume.***1335****13341333bona fides1332133113301329***13281327† See p. 954 of the present Volume.***1326***1325***1324† See p. 171 of the present Volume.***13231322***1321***1320***131913181317† See Vol. 2, p. 1081.***131613151314† See p. 550 of the present Volume.***1313***—I was going to observe upon that. It appears that the princess was sitting upon the bed at the time she entered: "I saw she had jumped up"—it is obvious that that must mean, that she jumped up in consequence of the surprise occasioned by the entrance of the chambermaid. Could you see whether Pergami had his clothes on or off?" "I could not see that; but I had seen as much in the moment I entered as that the arm was white; I had seen that Pergami had his arm round the neck of the princess; and when I entered, the princess let the arm fall."*13391338ergo,1337***1336† See p. 566 of the present Volume.***1335****13341333bona fides1332133113301329***13281327† See p. 954 of the present Volume.***1326***1325***1324† See p. 171 of the present Volume.***13231322***1321***1320***131913181317† See Vol. 2, p. 1081.***131613151314† See p. 550 of the present Volume.***1313***Mr. Attorney General
—Will you point out the page in which it is said, that the Villa then belonged to Bergami?Mr. Denman.
13411340**—Is there any evidence that it ever belonged to her royal highness? Pomi says, it belonged to Bergami, and was then mortgaged, and then returned to him. Is it suggested that it was ever her's? But, my lords, I care not—it was under his name—he appears to have the property in that place,
13411340**Mr. Attorney General.
—Would you wish for any interval?Lord Chancellor.
1352135113501349134813471346***13451344***1343—No, my lords, I trust I shall finish within a reasonable time. The first witness called to grace the cause, was Mr. St. Leger. He proves only that be was chamberlain, and retired from her royal highness at Brunswick. Upon the evidence of lord Guildford, and lady Charlotte Lindsay, I have already made my comment. What is it they are to prove? They are to support the character of her royal highness, lady Charlotte to speak to four and twenty days, lord Guildford to dining with her at Naples, at Leghorn, and at the Villa d'Este. They are called to give a species of evidence to character. Lord Glenbervie to his dining with her at Genoa and seeing nothing improper. Lord Llandaff is called to prove the dining at Naples, and he certainly does prove an extraordinary fact, that he did distinguish Bergami from the other servants at Naples, and he afterwards dined with her royal highness at Rome. But he is called to endeavour to prove what lawyers call "the custom of the country," with respect to gentlemen visiting ladies in their bed-rooms; but my learned friend finding he could not prove "the custom of the country," his lordship was requested to prove what he himself had done in Italy. Your lordships recollect it excited rather a smile. His answer was, that he had seen many ladies in bed in a morning; and this is to be good evidence to prove that there is no indecency in having a man in a lady's bed-room at night. My lord Llandaff is not questioned as to his practice upon that subject, but he is to prove, that he, a nobleman on terms of equality with those ladies, visited ladies when in bed in the presence of other persons. Is that to be an excuse for a manservant being present during the whole night in the bed-room of his mistress, and while she is attiring? If such is the conclusion to which this evidence is to lead, I think the questions had better not have been put; for your lordships will see how preposterous it is to draw conclusions from such evidence.1352135113501349134813471346***13451344***1343Mr. Attorney General
*1356135513541353 then addressed their lordships as follows:*1356135513541353Mr. Solicitor General
1365Mrs. Minniken."O'Donovan.Mrs. Minniken.O'Donovan.Mrs. Minniken."13641363136213611360"Wantonness, magnificent.""Was poor in the advancement of her creatures;"——Thread-bare chastity135913581357** is called, my lords, to speak to the same subject. Sir W. Gell had seen him upon many occasions. On sir W. Gell's evidence I shall make no particular comment; but it appears, as compared with the evidence of Mr. Craven, to be rather too figurative in its style and character. He is asked, "Upon any occasion when Pergami has come to see you, or you have seen him, when the Queen has not been present, what has his conduct and demeanor been towards you as to manners?" "I should say, on all occasions, rather more respectful than was
1365Mrs. Minniken."O'Donovan.Mrs. Minniken.O'Donovan.Mrs. Minniken."13641363136213611360"Wantonness, magnificent.""Was poor in the advancement of her creatures;"——Thread-bare chastity135913581357**Sir W. Gell
—That is not so—he stated it was of his own accord he went.Mr. Denman.
1366—Do not interrupt him
1366Mr. Brougkam.
—I should certainly take it as a favour of my learned friend to interrupt me whenever I misstate any fact.Mr. Solicitor General.
—We shall be here till midnight.Mr. Brougham.
1383138213811380137913781377"The leathern outside, boisterous as it was, "Gave way, and bent beneath her strict embrace.""Though stiff with hoops, and arm'd with ribs of whale.""Oft have we found that seven-fold fence to fail,1376137513741373137213711370136913681367***—I have not, I conceive, mis-stated a single fact, except that I may have drawn a wrong conclusion, as to the motives for the conduct of my learned friend Mr. Brougham. My lords; having made these observations, I shall beg leave to direct your attention to what took place in embarking on board the polacre. I beg at once to come to that part—out of compliment, indeed, to my learned friends; for they tell us that that is the only rag of a case we have left. On board the polacre her royal highness embarks at Augusta. She lay in a room contiguous to the room in which Bergami slept. It is admitted, that by opening one door, they could see one another in bed; but I will go to the return voyage from Jaffa. Upon that voyage, a tent is raised upon the deck. My lords, there was some dispute about the size, and the character of that tent. Mr. Hownam swears it was about ten feet by sixteen; and if your lordships look at it when drawn by Paturzo,1383138213811380137913781377"The leathern outside, boisterous as it was, "Gave way, and bent beneath her strict embrace.""Though stiff with hoops, and arm'd with ribs of whale.""Oft have we found that seven-fold fence to fail,1376137513741373137213711370136913681367***Mr. Solicitor General.
—As it is now four o'clock, probably it will be most convenient to your lordships to adjourn.The Earl of Liverpool.
1384 said, he was convinced his learned friend, the solicitor-general, did not intend to say any thing harsh or unpleasant to him, but he had been instructed to insinuate, that he (Mr. B.) had so far trifled with their lordships, as to have brought out those two letters which he had Rendered yesterday, after having them a long time in his possession. He was the more certain that his learned friend was merely instructed to state this fact, not only from his learned friends personal kindness towards him, but because he knew that some of his sagacious instructors had been industriously buzzing it about, that he had had those papers long in his possession. He now asserted that he had no knowledge of the existence of those letters before half-past eleven o'clock yesterday; but he was wrong in supposing that they only reached London yesterday. The person who brought them, arrived with them in London about half-past eleven the night before—an hour too late to go round with the letter, even if he had immediately received it, to their lordships several residencies. This fact might be proved by a reference to the Alien-office. He hoped this explanation would be taken as a true statement of facts, and that those who had dared to
1384Mr. Brougham
 assured his learned friend, that he meant nothing personal to him, and that he gave him full credit for the statement he had just made.The Solicitor General
 was satisfied with his learned friend's assurance; indeed, he did not mean to ascribe to those who had instructed his learned friend any motives of personal hostility towards him. They no doubt thought the artifice they imputed to him one which they would have used as a perfectly fair one.Mr. Brougham
138713861385 resumed—138713861385Mr. Solicitor General
.—You had better read the evidence from which that appears.Mr. Denman
13951394139313921391139013891388.—My lords, my learned friends desire me to read the evidence. "Did he afterwards return the bottle to her royal highness?" "I cannot be positive. I fancy that he returned the bottle; but I cannot be positive. Whether he returned the bottle to the carriage or not, or whether he threw the bottle away I cannot be certain."—"To the best of your recollection, which way was it? Did he return the bottle, or did he throw it away?" "I rather think that he returned the bottle to the carriage." Can your lordships, then, entertain any doubt as to that having been the fact? And am I not justified, therefore, in calling upon your lordships to draw from that extraordinary circumstance the inference of a connection of the most extraordinary kind, existing at that time between her royal highness and Bergami?13951394139313921391139013891388Mr. Solicitor General
.—Where is that?—It is to the contrary, indeed.Mr. Denman
14151414141314121411none14101409dared,1408140714061405v.14041403140214011400"non mi sovviene,""Non mi recordo"1399139813971396.—This is the passage—"Did you ever see the baron Ompteda?" "I do not remember the name."—"Did you ever, during the year after the long voyage, see a German baron at the Villa d'Este?" "In the house Villani, I saw him. He was a Prussian." It is quite clear he was speaking of the baron Ompteda, and no other person.14151414141314121411none14101409dared,1408140714061405v.14041403140214011400"non mi sovviene,""Non mi recordo"1399139813971396Mr. Solicitor General
.—It is not the same night.Mr. Denman
14241423***1422***142114201419141814171416.—It is most positively sworn to be the same night. I beg leave, then, to recall your recollection to what took place in the morning. The usual time for retiring from that apartment was nine o'clock. Demont remained till ten; and before she retired, her royal highness came out of the room occupied by Bergami, with her two pillows, for the purpose of passing to her own room. The moment she saw Demont, she started, said nothing, but passed on. Now, my lords, if that circumstance be true, can any person for a
14241423***1422***142114201419141814171416Mr. Solicitor General
.—He does not say "by accident."Mr. Denman
1429Funus et imperio parabat—"Regina dementes ruinas,"——dum Capitolio,1428142714261425.—I say, he tells us so in his cross-examination: "Did you meet him by accident?" "By accident. I did not know him; he stopped me." When he told you to go to Vimercati, you being the servant of Codazzi, did you not ask him what his name was, and who he was?" "I asked him, and he told me that it was no business of mine."—"Did you meet him by accident on the second day?"—"Yes." And this man whom he did not know, whom he had thus met by accident the second time, persuades him to go to Vimercati. My lords, he goes to Vimercati, and according to his account, Vimercati persuades him to deliver to him papers belonging to her royal highness. He pays him for those papers, and he goes on delivering successive parcels of papers till the month of November in the same year. My lords, he says, that at the end of that year, or at the commencement of the next, he repented of what he had done; he had been seduced by those persons to hand over those papers, and to betray the confidence of his employer; for he describes
1429Funus et imperio parabat—"Regina dementes ruinas,"——dum Capitolio,1428142714261425Mr. Solicitor General
14311430 said, that he wished to call their lordships attention to a matter which he mentioned a day or two ago. He had on that occasion stated, that some papers of importance had just reached him, which he had at once felt it his duty to lay before their lordships; indeed, he felt it would be a dereliction of duty in him to allow their lordships to go to judgment without puling them in possession of these papers. It appeared to him, that there were two points of view in which such evidence was admissible. He was certain that in any ordinary case, no judge would hold that, before final judgment was given, it was too late for a defendant to obtain justice; he was convinced that such evidence as that which he was about to offer, would be received in the courts below, open certainly to cross-examination, to a rebutter, and to all the comments of the prosecutor. But, was it not more necessary that such evidence should be received in such a case as this? He would call their lordships' attention to the reasons, why it was material that this evidence should be received. First, it brought home distinctly
14311430Mr. Brougham
 said, he objected to his learned friend's proceeding further. Had he the talent, eloquence, or nerve of his learned friend, he might well turn round, and with a bursting exclamation say, "And now, my lords, I ask whether you are a court of justice?" If his learned friend's object was merely to make a speech, he would have avoided, not only the letters, but all comments on what had been said in reply. The letters had been produced when he was in the course of his reply, land when his learned friend knew that they could not be received in evidence. If the letters were of importance to the defence, their lordships might perhaps be inclined to relax the strict rules of evidence in favour of the accused, but he denied that it could be done in this case. The object was, to establish the proposed agency, and then to show the conduct of the party under that agency. But the declaration of the party could not be received to prove this, neither could the written declaration of such agent. His learned friend had accused baron Ompteda; and now it turned out, that the accusation was without proof; for no proof was attempted to be offered against Ompteda until this moment. It was not until he had complained of this accusation without proof, that the letters in question had found their way into the hands of his learned friend. Then it was that his learned friend came forward and said, "Oh, I have got letters of the greatest importance, which I wish to lay before your lordships." He contended that those letters could not be received. His learned friend had ingeniously contrived to state the contents of the letters, but he had not said to whom they were addressed, nor had he mentioned their dates.The Attorney-General
.—My lords; I have not the slightest objection to do both. I will read the letters throughout, if my learned friend wishes.Mr. Brougham
1432 admired the adroitness of his learned friend. He had contrived to give the contents of the letters in his own way; but he could not ac-
1432The Attorney General
ex post facto14341433 said, his learned friend had done him injustice in supposing that he meant to take any advantage of him. The first letter was dated the 24th Feb. 1819. The second, the 6th of March, 1819. There was also a third (which was an answer to the first), dated the 28th February. The person to whom those letters had been addressed, was a director of police at Pesaro. He was aware that he had no right to press upon their lordships any reply to, or correction of his learned friend's occasional mistakes in the course of the reply. Perhaps, too, there was another reason, namely, because he did not feel himself pressed by any necessity to do so. He contended that he had a right to produce those letters, as an answer to the question, why he did not produce certain other witnesses. He had been told that he knew the contents of the letters, or he would not have held back Mariette and Hieronimus. This he denied. He had found the activity which had been used in corrupting her royal highness's servants. He saw that they had already got four of her servants, and he knew not how far the others might have been practised upon. With respect to Mariette and Hieronimus, he said on a former occasion that he did not know but they might have been under the trammels of the Omptedas and Grimms; and now it turns out, that he was perfectly well founded in the remark. If he had, in a rash moment, called any of those persons, they might have turned round upon him; they would, in reality, be the witnesses of his learned friends, whilst they would be his only to appearance. The evidence afforded by the letters of Ompteda was a proof of the sound discretion which he and his friends had exercised on this point. His learned friend had said, that there was not a tittle of proof to show any connexion between Ompteda and the present cause, now he wanted to show that there did exist such connexion, he wanted to demonstrate the fact; Majoochi was cross-examined to show that baron Ompteda had a connexion with the case; Majoochi shuffled at the questions put to him on this head, and then he and his learned friends called witnesses to contra-
ex post facto14341433Mr. Brougham
1435 put it again to their lordships, whether or not his learned friend had not offered those letters for the opportunity of making a speech in reply to the concluding addresses of the counsel for the bill? What did their lordships now hear after all, but that they were not to be guided by the ordinary rules which they had hitherto followed, but that his learned friend should be allowed to bring in any evidence which he might think material to her majesty's case, and that their lordships had no discretion but to accept it. With respect to the nature of the evidence to which his learned friend alluded, he felt no alarm; but he maintained, that if their lordships adhered to the rules they had hitherto followed, there was not a tittle of ground for admitting this evidence. He denied also, that what had been said in the evidence, with respect to Maurice Credi's begging pardon before her royal highness, was any sufficient reason for the production of those papers. As to the evidence of Carrington, he was called to contradict Majoochi; but, who ever heard, that what he said of what he heard Majoochi say respecting another could be evidence as against that other? He then submitted to their lordships that there was no just ground laid for the introduction of these letters, though, he repeated, that he was not afraid of them as affecting his case if they were produced. Their lordships, however, would be the best judges whether the papers had any material bearing on the case, and, if so, whether a just ground had been given for producing them. Was it now meant to be said, on the other side, that those letters were the reasons
1435The Attorney General
 observed, that according to the practice of the courts below, after the reply was heard, the counsel on the opposite side had no right to offer any observations, except as to cases quoted. He had seen what was passing at their lordships bar, and he could state that, in an experience of 45 years, he had hardly ever seen the rule to which he had just alluded strictly observed. Counsel generally, when they replied to cases, diverged a little to the reply of the other side. He did not say that they had any right to do so; but it was generally done. As to the case here, he should remark, what he was certain would be the fact, that no attention could be paid to such observations. With reference to the request of counsel to have those papers received, he had yet to learn what connexion there was between those letters and the evidence of Credi or Majoochi. Credi was not a witness before their lordships; and as to Majoochi's declarations, they might be evidence that he said so, but they could not be evidence of the truth of what was so said. As it was, he was of opinion that they were not evidence.The Lord Chancellor
1436 said, that with respect to the judgment of the courts below, he would not stop to consider what evidence they would receive or reject; but he thought their lordships stood in a situation different from the courts below, and different from all other tribunals; and he thought that what they had to consider was the simple naked question, did the evidence now offered bear upon the case? did they think it of importance to the great and important cause? If they did, how could they far one instant reject it; or rejecting it, how could they talk of even-handed justice? What was the character of the proceeding before them; what was its origin; who were its instruments? Was it an English or a German proceeding? The noble earl opposite had, on a former day, boldly stept forward and avowed, that he was responsible for the measure. In the course of the proceeding of that day, it was pretty evident that, mixed up with this proceeding, there was much German agency; there appeared about it the active interference of the minister of the king of Hanover, who was also the sovereign of this country. Agents—
1436The Earl of Carnarvon
1437 said, he would not enter into any consideration as to the technical difficulties that might stand in the way of the production of these letters. He would speak to a plain matter of fact. These letters were of a material importance to the defence of an accused party, who stood exposed to a bill of Pains and Penalties. Would they refuse to receive that evidence? If any one point in the whole case was more anxiously avoided than another, it was the Milan commission. He should have thought that the noble earl opposite would have told them that this important question should be examined with the utmost impartiality, and that he would have divested the British government of any concern in transactions which could not be referred to without pain and disapprobation. This bill of Pains and Penalties stood opposed to every principle of the British constitution. He was happy, therefore, to have that opportunity to protest against it. He did so upon the broad principle, that such a bill was subversive of the British constitution Opposed to this bill of Pains and Penalties, her majesty stood in a situation different from the situation in which other persons would have stood. If their lordships felt for her situation—if they meant to investigate the truth—if they meant to satisfy the feelings of the country, they would afford ample opportunities to her majesty to expose that conspiracy which they had so much reason to suppose existed against her. Their lordships would not do justice to the case of
1437The Duke of Hamilton
 said, he was ready to admit that they ought, as much as possible, to adhere to the rules of evidence as followed in the courts below; but when they assumed the station of a legislative body, the object of their inquiry ought to be in the first place, to promote the cause of truth and justice. To this great object every inferior consideration ought to yield. The question before them was not a judicial, but a legislative measure; and on this ground their lordships were bound to see whether the evidence had come fairly before them, or whether corrupt and miserable arts had been employed to suborn that evidence and to pervert the ends of justice? In his opinion, their lordships were not bound down by the technical rules of law. The spirit of exalted justice alone should guide their proceedings. Proceedings in courts of law in ordinary cases had, in fact, no relation whatever to the proceedings before them. Would they stifle inquiry, where inquiry was so anxiously called for by an abused and complaining party? In his opinion, they would forget their duty if they should shrink from an inquiry necessary to the attainment of justice.The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, he was one of those who felt that the House ought to have gone into a full inquiry on this head. But as they had not done so, he did not think that, at the present moment, they could take up the subject; the more so, because the inquiry would be of a partial and imperfect nature.Earl Grosvenor
 suggested, that if this evidence was to be received, it would then be incumbent, on them to go further into the new inquiry which would by that means be opened. For his own part, he felt himself quite exhausted by the length to which the main investigation had already extended. His reason, however, for the vote that he should give on this question, was—and it would afford him great satisfaction to find that others were equally influenced by the same reason—that he was determined to vote against the bill itself, on principles which had often been maintained in that House on former occasions. He did think also, that no man could give an honest vote the other way, without first sifting and examining every part of the subject, and acquainting himself with the real means by which this prosecution had been set on foot. He himself, indeed, felt no desire for such an investigation; he wanted not, after so long an inquiry into the conduct of the Queen, to be led into an inquiry as to the proceedings of Hanoverian ministers. Those, however, who proposed to say content to the second reading of a bill like this, were bound to assure themselves that it had been brought forward by just, legitimate, and constitutional means.Lord Holland
1439 agreed that the evidence in question was not admissible, in consequence of the rule which they had themselves previously laid down. But it was one thing to say, that the evidence in question formed no material part of the inquiry, and another to say that, in accordance with this rule, they were prevented from receiving it. Their lordships had, during the course of these proceedings, rejected evidence tendered in support of a charge of conspiracy on the one side, and were bound, therefore, to exclude it on either side. It could not be becoming to receive it at this closing stage of the general inquiry Undoubtedly, some amongst them had a deep interest in the production of this evidence, and more especially the noble earl opposite who had said, that no foreign minis-
1439The Marquis of Lansdown
 said, he had always felt and declared that a bill of Pains and Penalties was a proceeding which nothing could justify, but a question of state necessity. Such necessity was not proved on the present occasion. Entertaining this constitutional feeling against the bill, he had stated it at an early period of the proceeding. Their lordships thought otherwise, and having agreed to proceed on this bill, they had sat there for a period of from 40 to 50 days, hearing evidence for and against it. Were they now, in the last stage of this proceeding, to depart from the rule which they had followed throughout? It was stated by a learned lord, in which he thought every body must concur, that according to the rules of law, this evidence was not admissible. The question was, was the evidence tendered, so material to their decision as to induce them to depart from the rule which they had originally made? His noble friend had said, that an inquiry into the character and conduct of the Milan commission was of great importance. He concurred with him; but the present was not the moment most convenient to institute that inquiry.Earl Grey
*1458145714561455145414531452locumtempusamplexusoscula1451***14501449144814471446144514441443ex parteex parte144214411440*** rose, and addressed the House as follows—*1458145714561455145414531452locumtempusamplexusoscula1451***14501449144814471446144514441443ex parteex parte144214411440***The Lord Chancellor
 said, that he had, in common with their lordships, to regret the absence of his noble and learned friend, whose indisposition had compelled him to quit his seat. But he could not permit this debate to go further without observing, that his noble and learned friend had mistaken what he (the lord chancellor) meant, when he said that he had overlooked many of the points in the case. What he meant to say was merely this—that in the points and cases upon which he had remarked, he saw enough for his own judgment: as to the rest, he had left them unreasoned upon, and refrained from pronouncing any opinion with reference to them.The Lord Chancellor
15201519ex parte1518ex parte1517151615151514151315121511ex parte1510† See Vol. 2, p. 1266.***150915081507***15061505annually1504"Non mi recordo;"1503† See Vol. 2, p. 1203.See p. 984 of the present Volume.*femme libertine et galante;"1502double entendre,15011500***she1499† Ibid. p. 689.***1498***149714961495† Ibid, p. 456.***1494**passages founded upon; besides, the argument used to show that he was not unwilling to state his belief as to this fact, in my mind, was the strongest thing of all others to prove that he was most unwilling. It was said, that even the counsel, in his examination in chief, had shown their desire, without effect, to induce him to announce his belief on this subject; now, undoubtedly, that may be urged, with justice, as proving that the counsel for her majesty were not unwilling to hear him state his belief. Yet, in so much as it proves his resistance, even to the wishes of those who called him, it seems, of all others, the statement that tends, in the strongest manner, to establish the unwillingness of the witness to disclose his belief.*1493‡ Ibid. p. 523.—In the course of the debate, Hownam's unwillingness to state his belief, that Bergami slept under the tent, was, to a certain extent, denied; reference is, however, here given to the***14921491***1490***14891488‡ Ibid. p. 950.† Ibid. p. 957.***14871486‡ Ibid. p. 517.† Ibid. p. 529.***1485§ Ibid. p. 310.‡Ibid. p. 514.† Ibid. p. 517.**les petits jeux,*1484***1483‡ Ibid p. 310.† Ibid p. 531.***1482† Ibid. p. 513.***1481***1480***1479‡ Ibid. p. 336.† Ibid. p. 318.***1478† Ibid. p. 408.***1477§ Ibid. p. 405.† Ibid. p. 364. ‡ Ibid. p. 413.***1476║ Ibid. p. 312.§ Ibid. p. 411.† Ibid. p. 344. ‡ Ibid. P. 331.****147514741473v.14721471**cramp in the stomach, which was greatly distended, and his pulse for some time had entirely ceased, until he was relieved by something administered by sir William Knighton, who happened to be present, and who kindly accompanied him home, attended by Mr. Holt of Westminster.* said15201519ex parte1518ex parte1517151615151514151315121511ex parte1510† See Vol. 2, p. 1266.***150915081507***15061505annually1504"Non mi recordo;"1503† See Vol. 2, p. 1203.See p. 984 of the present Volume.*femme libertine et galante;"1502double entendre,15011500***she1499† Ibid. p. 689.***1498***149714961495† Ibid, p. 456.***1494**passages founded upon; besides, the argument used to show that he was not unwilling to state his belief as to this fact, in my mind, was the strongest thing of all others to prove that he was most unwilling. It was said, that even the counsel, in his examination in chief, had shown their desire, without effect, to induce him to announce his belief on this subject; now, undoubtedly, that may be urged, with justice, as proving that the counsel for her majesty were not unwilling to hear him state his belief. Yet, in so much as it proves his resistance, even to the wishes of those who called him, it seems, of all others, the statement that tends, in the strongest manner, to establish the unwillingness of the witness to disclose his belief.*1493‡ Ibid. p. 523.—In the course of the debate, Hownam's unwillingness to state his belief, that Bergami slept under the tent, was, to a certain extent, denied; reference is, however, here given to the***14921491***1490***14891488‡ Ibid. p. 950.† Ibid. p. 957.***14871486‡ Ibid. p. 517.† Ibid. p. 529.***1485§ Ibid. p. 310.‡Ibid. p. 514.† Ibid. p. 517.**les petits jeux,*1484***1483‡ Ibid p. 310.† Ibid p. 531.***1482† Ibid. p. 513.***1481***1480***1479‡ Ibid. p. 336.† Ibid. p. 318.***1478† Ibid. p. 408.***1477§ Ibid. p. 405.† Ibid. p. 364. ‡ Ibid. p. 413.***1476║ Ibid. p. 312.§ Ibid. p. 411.† Ibid. p. 344. ‡ Ibid. P. 331.****147514741473v.14721471**cramp in the stomach, which was greatly distended, and his pulse for some time had entirely ceased, until he was relieved by something administered by sir William Knighton, who happened to be present, and who kindly accompanied him home, attended by Mr. Holt of Westminster.*The Earl of Lauderdale
152315221521 said, that upon a question of such great national importance as the present, inferior to none which had been agitated in parliament since the period of the Revolution, and as to which, a silent vote in many cases, and probably in his own, could not give a correct expression of the opinion formed; he felt very desirous of offering a few observations to the House.152315221521The Earl of Rosebery
15301529venue15281527152615251524 said, he could not agree with the conclusion drawn by the noble earl from the evidence given in this case. He conceived, that the evidence in support of the Bill was so full and complete, that no doubt could hang upon his, or upon any other man's mind, as to the guilt of the accused party. If such evidence were to be rejected, then, he must say, that no verdict had ever been given, in any court of justice, where a contrariety of evidence appeared, that might not be challenged on the same ground: for, be believed, very few cases could be cited, in which the contrariety of evidence was not greater. He had examined the evidence most accurately, and the impression on his mind was, that this case was more fully proved than any case which he ever remembered, in which any degree of contrariety of evidence was apparent. Where any doubt or mystery hung over evidence, he had been professionally taught to use a test, which was adopted, not only here, but in every place where any thing like a due administration of justice prevailed—namely, where there was any thing doubtful in the evidence, or where it was contradicted, to try those parts on which doubt was thrown, or which were so contradicted, by the test of those facts that were unquestionably proved. When this was done, the truth was sure to be extracted. This mode he had been taught from his earliest knowledge of the profession in which he had so long been engaged; and the adoption of which in another country, where he had been employed in the administration of justice, he found to be indispensably necessary in arriving at a just decision. When he wished to ascertain the truth, be would examine contradictory evidence, in the manner be had stated; but be was convinced, that, if evidence were to be altogether rejected because some parts of it appeared discordant, efficient justice never could be done. Evidence that was contradicted he would try by the test of clear and undisputed facts—and he would then judge on which side the truth of the evidence really lay. Now, in this case, there was an abundance of undisputed facts—such an abundance, as, if duly considered, left no doubt as to the side on which the truth and weight of
15301529venue15281527152615251524Lord Redesdale
***146914681467146614651464146314621461ex parte1460Judicially,legislative"Fiat justitia ruat cœlum."1459** said—***146914681467146614651464146314621461ex parte1460Judicially,legislative"Fiat justitia ruat cœlum."1459**Lord Erskine
1538"And night's black agents to their work do rouse.""Good things of day begin to droop and drowze,15371536double entendre15351534double entendre153315321531 rose. He said, that having on this important inquiry attended to the evidence that had been given at the bar, as well as to the eloquent speeches of counsel; having also attended to the speeches of noble lords, pronounced yesterday in that House; having thus paid all the attention in his power to this most important case, he had now to declare before God and his country his solemn opinion, that any thing adduced in evidence before them, did not substantiate the cruelly accumulated charges against the Queen. In my conscience (said the noble earl), and as I hope for justice and for mercy at the bar of heaven hereafter, where we must all appear, and where we shall be judged of according to the good or evil we may do on this great occasion, I do believe that these charges have not been proved, and I must, therefore, be under the necessity of saying "Not-content" to this question [Loud cheers!]. He should, he feared, be obliged, in the course of his address, to claim a considerable portion of their lordships' time. They had heard much on the one side of the subject, and yesterday they had heard the able and elaborate speech of the learned lord on the woolsack, as well as the speech of the noble earl (Lauderdale) who had so much distinguished himself by the part which he had taken on this question, and the energy which he had manifested. Whilst on the other hand, the side of the House from whence he addressed them, had to deplore the loss of a powerful ann eloquent advocate (lord Erskine), who had been prevented from following up his speech against the bill; the sudden indisposition of that noble lord was a cause of great regret to them all, but he trusted that his indisposition would be but temporary; he hoped that he would still be able to bring to this question the aid of his powerful talents, and character. It was to be regretted, that, from the abilities which had been employ-
1538"And night's black agents to their work do rouse.""Good things of day begin to droop and drowze,15371536double entendre15351534double entendre153315321531Earl Grosvenor
15441543154215411540 said, that
15441543154215411540The Earl of Donoughmore
1590***1589158815871586opportunitiescreationdouble entendredouble entendreinfatuated passioninfatuated passion1585protégé,158415831582his wife.except,1581elevation of Bergami.158015791578157715761575** rose and said:1590***1589158815871586opportunitiescreationdouble entendredouble entendreinfatuated passioninfatuated passion1585protégé,158415831582his wife.except,1581elevation of Bergami.158015791578157715761575**The Earl of Liverpool
157415731572157115701569156815671566156515641563156215611560155915581557double entendres15561555corpus delictiv1554155315521551155015491548154715461545 said:—My lords, it is with the utmost regret that I find myself compelled to differ upon this occasion from my noble friend who has just sat down, as well as from my noble friend on the cross-bench. I have been anxious to hear my noble friends, as well as other noble lords on the same side, before I rose to address you, because I know that their sentiments must have
157415731572157115701569156815671566156515641563156215611560155915581557double entendres15561555corpus delictiv1554155315521551155015491548154715461545Earl Grey
1539 said, it was not his intention to trouble their lordships by going at all into the mass of evidence which had been brought under their consideration. The situation in which he felt himself placed, was that of a member of the House of Peers, acting in the double capacity of a legislator and a judge. Considering himself as placed in that situation, he begged, before he gave his vote, to have the grounds on which he formed that vote distinctly understood. He would shortly state the impression made upon his mind by the evidence. Of that evidence he would say, that much of it had been contradicted; much stood on loose grounds; but other parts, he was sorry to say, stood on a firmer foundation. The effect of the whole was calculated to create a strong suspicion respecting the subject of their inquiry; but having stated that, he felt it necessary to consider the nature of the evidence. Far from him was the intention of adopting the prejudice out of doors, that because a person was a foreigner, he ought not to be believed on his oath. Such a prejudice was unworthy of any civilized country. But, when they found an extraordinary case built upon foreign evidence, and that obtained in an unusual manner, a certain degree of doubt was created; and the more so, because many parts of the depositions of the witnesses, he had reason to know, were not brought into the view of the House. If evidence was given on the trial of a person for events in England, they could have any doubts that had arisen cleared up in four and twenty hours. But respecting foreign evidence, a certain degree of doubt must arise in the mind. He went no further than this. He had no right to charge any witness with falsehood, unless it were proved upon him at
1539The Earl of Harewood
1619161816171616triumph of guilt;1615161416131612creating opportunitiesmenial servant,1611161016091608160716061605160416031602injustice.greatest cruelty, oppression,create opportunitiesvehemently in love withpolacre case,infatuated passionsuspicious attachment,1601judicial proofexclusiveness,1600that must have occurred,tent159915981597necessity;danger159615951594159315921591 continued—1619161816171616triumph of guilt;1615161416131612creating opportunitiesmenial servant,1611161016091608160716061605160416031602injustice.greatest cruelty, oppression,create opportunitiesvehemently in love withpolacre case,infatuated passionsuspicious attachment,1601judicial proofexclusiveness,1600that must have occurred,tent159915981597necessity;danger159615951594159315921591The Earl of Liverpool
16211620 said, it was with great unwillingness he troubled their lordships, because, unpractised as he was in that House, he was very sensible how little he was entitled to their attention. But, if he felt oppressed by this consideration earlier in the debate, how much more so must he now feel, after the brilliant display of eloquence which he had since heard, and which, he could assure the House, would have awed him into silence, if he were not sensible that he had a paramount duty to discharge? He wished he could think, that the only question to be decided by the second reading of the bill, was that of the guilt or innocence of the royal accused, because his duty would then be a more clear, though a most painful one. But there were other considerations which pressed themselves most seriously upon his mind, and impelled him, before the bill should be read a second time, to say, that after giving it all the consideration in his power, he felt a most decided objection to the divorce clause which it contained. He knew he might be told, that if he were clear as to the guilt of the Queen, it would
16211620Viscount Falmouth
 said, that in the committee he should desire to be heard against the divorce clause, thinking that, on every principle, it was improper.The Earl of Lauderdale
162716261625162416231622 observed, that as one of those who had concurred with the secret committee in recommending a solemn inquiry—as one who had agreed that it would be best carried on in a legislative form, and that the mode of proceeding actually adopted was the most convenient—as one, also, who had supported the bill on its first reading, but who now thought it highly inexpedient and detrimental to the public interests that it should proceed any further, he felt a natural desire to state briefly the grounds of his present opinion. The learned lord on the woolsack had truly said, that no noble lord ought to vote for the second reading of the bill, who did not think that the Queen was guilty; but they would allow him to add, that it was not necessary for at those who might vote against the second reading of the bill, to think that her majesty was innocent. The same learned lord had said to that House, "Be just and fear not;"—he would allow him to add, "be politic as well as just." The noble earl at the head of the Treasury, seemed to think that their lordships had already decided on the principle of the measure, and that they had now only to vote, whether the Queen was guilty or not guilty;—that it was due to the Queen and the country to express that opinion. It had been also said, that this bill of Pains and Penalties might undergo certain modifications. Now, he would in the first place say, that he considered the solemn inquiry which had taken place, had most
162716261625162416231622Lord Ellenborough
1650 was anxious to
1650The Duke of Newcastle
double entendre1656165516541653gravamen16521651 observed, that he was both glad and sorry that an opportunity for explanation had been afforded to the noble duke who preceded him. He was glad that any explanation which he might have thought necessary to the justification of his own conduct should have taken place, but sorry that the explanation given, however it might justify the noble duke in his own opinion, was not of a nature to satisfy the public mind as to the propriety of his interference. Did the noble duke think that to be present during the whole of the prosecution was a mere formality which might or might not be observed, according to the inclination or convenience of the parties. The noble duke had stated, that he was prevented from attending by domestic circumstances, by circumstances connected with his own personal convenience; he had stated, that he had not heard the speeches of counsel at the bar, nor the evidence by which the case was to be supported on either side, and yet, after such admissions, the noble duke had gone on to say, that having read the evidence, he was as well prepared as if he had heard it all, not only to vote for the second reading of the bill, but for all the penalties attached to the imputed offence. No doubt the noble duke thought he was acting conscientiously; that he thought he was sufficiently informed on the subject, and was as capable of coming to a just and equitable conclusion, as those who had attended the investigation of the charges from day to day. That such was
double entendre1656165516541653gravamen16521651The Marquis of Lansdown
1646 said, that the objections principally relied upon by the opponents of the bill were; first, that if it were passed, it would be rejected in the Commons; and, secondly, that the public mind had already decided against the measure. With respect to the first objection, he thought it should have no weight with their lordships, as it rested upon a calculation which he believed to be erroneous; and as to the second, he thought the public mind was much deceived upon this subject, through the garbled statements and inflammatory comments which had appeared in the newspapers. The public, then, could not be so competent to form a judgment upon the merits of the case as their lordships, who had been occupied for forty-five days in hearing the several witnesses, with the arguments of the counsel on both sides. The noble lord then adverted to the rapid exaltation of Bergami, who, after all the endeavours to throw a sort of credit over his origin, was clearly shown to have been a menial servant. Yet this man, from the lowest situation was raised to the highest to which the princess could elevate him, and with the most unaccountable celerity. Then was he seen surrounded by his own trusty relatives, and shut in by them from the eye of observation—Sisters, brothers, cousins, all but his wife; who was excluded, though her child, who wanted her protection, was a part of the family circle. What construction could their lordships put on these broad facts; on the suspicious condition of madame Oldi and on all the circum-
1646Lord De Dunstanville
 said, that he wished from his heart that the bill could be withdrawn, and that some other way might be devised, in order to take the sense of the House on the question of the guilt or innocence of the Queen. As a peer of parliament, he felt it to be a duty which he owed to his king, to oppose the second reading of this bill. Its rejection would relieve his majesty from a certain degree of odium, and ministers from a heavy weight of responsibility.Lord Arden
 said, that if the noble lord had an objection to the second reading of the bill, in case insuperable difficulties appeared to passing it without the clause of divorce—he too felt himself precisely in the same situation. He was I one of those who concurred in introducing the bill; yet he was ready to declare, without at that moment entering into the reasons on which he formed his opinion, that if the question should be put, whether the divorce clause should be retained, he would certainly vote against it.The Earl of Harrowby
1629lex post factoex post facto1628 said, that after all that had occurred—after all the evidence and. argument that he had heard—there was
1629lex post factoex post facto1628Lord Ashburton
prosequi1645nolle16441643164216411640163916381637"And push us from our stools.""With twenty mortal murders on their crowns,"And there an end; but now they rise again"That when the brains were out, the man would die,"—The time has been1636at lastthenat first1635on the whole matter in issuesecond16341633163216311630 addressed their lordships from the ministerial side of the House, and said:—My lords, it is not my intention now to resume the detailed examination of the whole evidence, which I was proceeding to do when I was prevented on Thursday by a sudden indisposition [See p. 1469.] The speech of my noble friend opposite (earl Grey) which, in disregard of every risk to my health, brought me down to the House yesterday to hear it, has rendered such a course unnecessary—it would only unsettle your minds from a conviction which cannot but be impressed on them, by the admirable perspicuity with which all the facts were laid before you, and by the eloquence with which they were enforced. The speech which you have just heard from the noble earl behind me (Liverpool) I am ready to say, was the best answer which could be given to it, but to which perhaps it would be a sufficient reply, to desire you only to recall (what must so easily be brought back to your recollections), the arguments to which I have alluded. A methodical detail of the whole proofs would therefore be superfluous; and I now offer myself to your lordships rather as a kind of authority from long professional habits, than as a debater upon the evidence; omitting, however, none of the supposed facts which have been insisted on as established; submitting to you, at the same time, the principles of law, by which their truth or falsehood ought to be examined, or the consequences, if taken to be true.prosequi1645nolle16441643164216411640163916381637"And push us from our stools.""With twenty mortal murders on their crowns,"And there an end; but now they rise again"That when the brains were out, the man would die,"—The time has been1636at lastthenat first1635on the whole matter in issuesecond16341633163216311630Lord Erskine
164916481647 said, that he felt it impossible for him to give a silent vote on the present occasion. The material question for their lordships to consider was, whether the preamble of the bill, which charged the Queen with having been guilty of an adulterous intercourse, was proved. If the case, as it had been established, rested solely upon the evidence of foreigners, it had been said, that their lordships ought to hesitate before they gave implicit credit to their testimony. This doctrine he did not consider correct; for although Eng-
164916481647Lord Manners
1675167416731672 said, that considering the strong conviction which he entertained that gross and degrading familiarities had been proved against her majesty—considering, also, that the reasons which he had urged against this bill, on its first introduction, were all of them now redoubled in weight and importance—he should be guilty of forsaking his duty if he did not state the reasons for the vote which he intended to give. He by no means meant to say, that no bill of degradation would be a proper punishment for the licentious conduct which had been proved on the part of her majesty; but if the present bill were fully justifiable in all other respects, looking at the peculiar circumstances of her majesty's situation, he must say that the same moral necessity, which, under the circumstances of gross and aggravated licentiousness that had been established against her majesty, might be supposed
1675167416731672Lord Calthorpe
Thy God's and truth's.""Let all the ends thou aim'st at be thy country's, said, that both on the ground of justice and of expediency, the measure before the House appeared to him objectionable. The learned lord on the woolsack had advised their lordships to "be just and fear not." He also would say so; and he would beg leave to proceed with the quotation—
Thy God's and truth's.""Let all the ends thou aim'st at be thy country's,The Marquis of Stafford
1676 said, that although he had made up his mind to a particular view of the question, still he could not suffer himself to give a silent vote on it. The charge against her majesty was, that she had carried on an adulterous intercourse with a person of low condition, and in a most disgusting manner. But,
1676Lord De Clifford
"Ducitur iratis plaudendum funus amicis."16691668buono marcato166716661665kvr16641663versus16621661166016591658mala fides,1657 resumed—"Ducitur iratis plaudendum funus amicis."16691668buono marcato166716661665kvr16641663versus16621661166016591658mala fides,1657The Marquis of Lansdown
1670 said, he considered that the allegations contained in the preamble of the bill were satisfacto-
1670The Duke of Northumberland
1679 said, that from the evidence which had been adduced at their lordships bar, had this been a case of impeachment, he must have been under the painful necessity of pronouncing a verdict of guilty; but he could not for many cogent reasons, give his vote for a measure, which was pregnant with danger and difficulty. He expected, when a case of this kind was introduced, that it should be supported by such decided evidence as would convince every mind. This had not been the case here. He would not listen to any thing dictated by faction, violence, or clamour. But he admired the generous, independent, and loyal feeling of this country; and that feeling he believed to be hostile to the measure. Their lordships could not, he conceived, take more effectual means to allay the irritation which at present prevailed in the public mind than by throwing out this obnoxious bill. He could not see how any man could vote for it without the divorce clause; and he knew not how I any man could vote for the measure with
1679The Earl of Gosford
1680 said, he never rose with so heavy a heart as he did on the present occasion. The vote he was about to give was dictated by a sense of duty, and by a feeling of honour and conscience. Other noble lords took a different view of the subject from that which he entertained. He gave them credit for the purity of their motives, and he claimed the same liberality himself. The evidence in this case was so clear and convincing, as to leave no doubt on his mind. They had for nearly fifty days been occupied with this subject; and having attended with as much consideration as possible to every thing that had occurred at their lordships bar—to all the evidence that had been adduced—to every argument that had been advanced for and against the measure; having marked with attention the eloquent speeches of many noble lords, he declared upon his honour, as a peer of parliament, that he considered her majesty's guilt to have been proved even by her own evidence. Thinking so, he should feel himself unworthy of a seat in that House if he did not state his opinion. If, then, the charges were well founded, what was the House to do? He did not profess to be lawyer sufficient to enter into a discussion of the history of bills of this nature. It was for him only to express himself, like a conscientious juror. The question for them to consider was, whether this bill should go to a second reading or not? He would not detain their lordships by stating the evidence, and commenting on those disgraceful scenes which it disclosed. He could not, however, but observe, that many noble lords, who had given their opinion against the further progress of this bill, had, at the same time, stated that they believed the Queen to be guilty. That they should vote against the measure surprised him greatly. They must have recollected that it had been incontestably proved that for 35 days the Queen was within a tent alone with Bergami. Even her majesty's counsel admitted the fact. Did not this afford ground for more than suspicion? Standing in the situation of the father of a family, it became his duty, when called on, to state what construction he put on such conduct; and, in his opinion, no construction
1680The Duke of Athol
 said, he objected to bills of Pains and Penalties generally, as being of an anomalous nature. The present case was one of extreme hardship, the evidence being chiefly that of discarded servants, who were always viewed with an eye of suspicion. A most material witness for the prosecution had been allowed to withdraw himself; and this circumstance strongly confirmed the suspicion of a conspiracy, which other facts had excited. Several of the stories, too, had been completely contradicted by witnesses of the most respectable character. There were not sufficient grounds for passing a bill of Pains and Penalties. Throughout the discussion there had been a confusion of two things: it was one question whether there had been any impropriety in the conduct of the Queen; it was quite another question, whether there was proof of the guilt charged in the preamble, which, alone could warrant a vote for the second reading. If there had been improprieties in the conduct of the Queen, it did not follow that she was guilty of adulterous intercourse. There was direct proof only of the manners of the Queen; there was nothing proved of the state of her morals. The evidence against the Queen was discredited by the manner of giving it; there was the most minute recollection of matters against the Queen; while, on other matters, there was no recollection at all. In judging, too, of the conduct of the Queen, their lordships ought never to forget that she had come a foreigner to this country; that she had been notorious for the freedom of her manners before she was selected to be the wife of his majesty; and that a complete conformity to the manners of this country was not to be expected. In her conduct many extraordinary and imprudent circumstances might be traced; but they were not hard to be accounted for, without any impeachment of her morals. This prosecution had excited feelings of disapprobation throughout Europe. He earnestly hoped the bill would not pass, and he most decidedly and conscientiously, would give his vote against the second reading.The Duke of Somerset
169816971696169516941693169216911690 said, be gave his noble friend full credit for the declaration made at the outset of his speech, that in delivering his opinion on this subject he was not anxious to influence the judgment of others. But the arguments of his noble friend, notwithstanding this declaration, did appear to him to be calculated directly to influence the vote of the House. He agreed with his noble friend in thinking, that circumstantial evidence was of great importance; and he also admitted that his noble friend had truly described the nature of such evidence, when he said that it applied to those cases in which a number of circumstances all concurred to the same end—that was, to the same act—so that it appeared to the human mind next to an impossibility that that act had not taken place. He admitted that such circumstances so concurring, ought to have, and must have, great weight; but let him apply this principle of evidence to the present case. Would his noble friend tell their lordships that these circumstances, the character of which he had defined, applied to this case, and tended to exclude the possibility of believing that the alleged guilt had not taken place? His noble friend had said, that in a case of murder, if a man was found with a knife, his garments bloody, the time concurring, he being proved to have been from home, and unable to give
169816971696169516941693169216911690The Earl of Rosslyn
1678 said, that though the evidence had been so fully discussed, there were two or three points to which he begged leave to call their attention. A noble lord opposite, observed on Saturday, that the polacre case was quite sufficient, and that upon this the evidence remaining uncontradicted, his mind was made up. Now, it did appear to him, that neither the evidence of Gargiulo or Paturzo was untouched. Paturzo stated, that when certain transactions took place on the deck, his relation, Gargiulo, sent him away, sometimes on one pretence, sometimes on another. Now, when Gargiulo was examined to this fact, he denied any recollection of it; but he afterwards, on being pressed, acknowledged he had sent Paturzo away once, and but once only. In another part of his evidence, in which he wished to show that great indecency, if not adultery, had been committed on the voyage (he alluded to the situation of the bed on deck), he was contradicted by two persons. It was
1678The Earl of Blesington
 said, that although he had supported the bringing in of this bill, he yet thought, upon an occasion of this nature, that every man should be guided by his own judgment. He had attended to the evidence strictly and impartially; and had done his utmost to understand it. He considered, upon the whole, that it was so inconsistent, that it comprised such a mass of contradiction, and was so suspicious, that he could not possibly consent to convict any person upon it. He, therefore, should vote against the second reading of the bill.The Earl of Enniskillen
1671 said, he had attended to all the different stages of this proceeding, and had concurred in the expediency of the inquiry which had taken place. Under all the circumstances which followed, however, and from the view which he took of the evidence, he did not think that the preamble of the bill had been sufficiently sustained. He considered that Majoochi, Demont, Sacchi, and Restelli, were not deserving of credit; he considered also, that other witnesses who had been called were not entitled to the fullest confidence. With these impressions, combined with the fact of Restelli having been sent out of the country—with Kress having been compelled to come over here to give evidence, while the baron d'Ende was not compelled to come—that such a taint had been thrown upon the whole case, as to render it obnoxious and unsatisfactory to the population of the country. He could not assent to this bill unless the charges contained in the preamble were indisputably proved. He had heard a great deal of witnesses who had not been called. On the one
1671Lord Howard
1677 said, that feeling on the question before their lordships a difference of opinion from those who generally received his public support, and who invariably possessed his private esteem, he could not refrain from stating the reasons by which his vote would be influenced. It had been well observed, that the decision of that House ought to be influenced only by evidence unsuspected and unsuspicious, and which must bring conviction home to every impartial mind. Now, he had paid the closest attention to the evidence, and he could not, in his conscience, say that it had turned out to be of that character. It had been said that enough had been proved to be decisive in ordinary cases and in an ordinary court; but the present was not an ordinary case, nor was that an ordinary court. Their lordships were engaged, not in an inquiry whether any offence had been committed against the existing law, but in framing a new law to meet an existing offence. For his part, he saw so many difficulties in the way of passing the bill in that House—so many difficulties in the way of passing it in the other House—so many difficulties of every description against which no human foresight could guard, even if the bill should pass both Houses, that he could not help thinking the wisest and best course would be to put an end to the measure at once. He was perfectly aware that such a proceeding would also be attended with some difficulties. He was aware that it would be attended with triumph to a mischievous
1677Lord Grantham
16891688168716861685168416831682 observed, that almost every noble lord who had spoken on the occasion, had described the pain with which he undertook the discharge of a duty so distressing to every honourable mind. In that extreme reluctance he also deeply participated, and even at that
16891688168716861685168416831682Lord Grenville
 said, it had never occurred to him, that those who did not hear the whole of the evidence for and against the bill, could be competent to give a vote in a case of this description. This was certainly a matter in the discretion of their lordships, and he was far from saying, that it was wrong that it should thus be left to their discretion. With respect to the protest before them, he could have wished certain unguarded expressions to have been omitted; at the same time, considering the painful situation in which her majesty was placed, he thought the greatest latitude of indulgence ought to be allowed. Wishing to do justice, according to the principles of British jurisprudence, had he been on the secret committee, he thought he could hardly have trusted himself to come there as an impartial judge. After what had taken place, had he been counsel for the Queen, he thought he should have advised no further appeal to their lordships in any future stage of these proceedings. Of all the calamities which had grown out of this great national calamity, he considered the declarations made in that House, that day, were not the least. Those declarations, which went to assert a right to condemn the Queen without hearing the whole of the evidence, appeared to him calculated to induce their lordships to trample on the vital principles of justice. He had thought it a vital principle of justice that no accused person should be condemned but on oral testimony. Those who felt exempted from the observance of this principle, seemed to him to act in violation of the most sacred principles of British justice. He then commented on the conduct of certain noble lords in this respect, and contended, that when proxies were excluded from voting, it was intended to preclude those from giving a vote on this bill, who had not heard the whole of the evidence, as the vote of the proxy would be good, but it was objected that the party had not had the advantage of witnessing the proceedings. Again, in reference to the protest, he would contend that they could not relax the strict rule too much with respect to any representation which this unfortunate lady might be disposed to make.The Earl of Carnarvon
1706 said, he had heard of no disinclination—he felt no disinclination himself—to receive, in some form or other, the matters contained in the
1706The Lord Chancellor
 suggested, that the word "justly" should be inserted in the resolution, immediately after the word "might."The Earl of Lauderdale
1703 said, that according to the rules and regulations of their proceedings fn all matters of accusation before them by bill, the person who was placed in the situation of the accused, after the second reading of the bill, had a right to be personally heard. That was a doctrine which prevailed in Atterbury's case, and several others. He thought it right, if it was to be considered as the address of the individual sending it to the House, that it should be taken notice of and received as such; but strictly speak-
1703The Lord Chancellor
 had no objection to the paper being received as the address of the Queen, provided a formal entry were made in the Journals to that effect. It might be entered on the Journals, not as a protest, but as a representation of what the feelings of the Queen were, and an address which she would have made had she been personally present.The Earl of Liverpool
 agreed, that it was proper to receive it in some way or other, and thought it might be received under the name of an address, but certainly not of a protest, which might form a precedent for individuals protesting against the proceedings of that House.The Lord Chancellor
, that this protest should be put, in some way or other, on the Journals. It should stand there as the address of the Queen. But, considering it as an address, he begged to ask, whether their lordships thought it one which, if delivered at the bar, would have been received by the House without interruption? It was said in that paper, that noble lords came from the secret committee "with minds biassed by a mass of slanders." How could her majesty know that all the evidence which had been brought before the secret committee had not been laid before the House? This was one of the most direct calumnies ever vented against the House. He, for one, had sat upon the committee, and he declared, before God, that his opinion of the Queen's guilt had arisen from her own defence. Was it possible that their lordships would permit themselves to be thus slandered?The Earl of Lauderdale greed
ex post facto, conceiving that he had been attacked by this protest, which, by a sort of ex post factoThe Duke of Newcastle
1704, who had also been absent for a day or two during the defence, maintained his right of voting, and endeavoured to vindicate his conduct against the reflection cast upon noble lords in his si-
1704Lord Somers
, justified his voting on the bill, notwithstanding a temporary absence from the House during the investigation, by saying that he read all the evidence with the utmost attention.The Duke of Athol
 objected to the clause on the broad ground of expediency.Lord Calthorpe
1709 said, that the
1709The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that he had the strongest objections to the clause under consideration, and thought it was impossible that the House could proceed to separate a man and wife from the marriage state, neither of whom sought for such separation.Earl Fitzwilliam
17161715 said, that the House would do him the justice to recollect, that on the 19th of August, he had particularly urged this proceeding, on the grounds of public justice, and had then stated, that he knew much misrepresentation had elsewhere prevailed on the subject of the remedy required by one of the parties. It was said to be sought for as a measure of personal relief for the prince I on the throne. On that ground, he did distinctly disclaim the measure, and had said, that so far from that being the ground on which he proposed the bill, he was ready, if any religious feeling prevailed upon the divorce part of the measure, to relinquish that part of the relief altogether. He had always said, that: though a divorce might be the effect of the bill in one respect, yet that it was not its principle; that the bill was in fact a I public measure, and not one of private relief. And he had even gone further, and said, that there might be cases of a young king and a young wife, in which was involved the integrity of the succession, when the House would not be warranted to pronounce a divorce, if the parties had previously been in a state of
17161715The Earl of Liverpool
femme sole;1717è vinculo matrimonii; said, he could never bring himself to agree with Black-stone, that marriage was merely a civil contract. In truth, it could not be a civil contract, for it was the parent not the child of civil society—"principiumurbis et fundamentum reipublicæ;." It had been said, "those whom God hath joined, let no man put asunder." But this doctrine was fully explained in many parts of the New Testament. During the period of the Reformation, when men's minds were much afloat on the subject of religion, he took the Marriage law to be settled thus—that marriage was a civil contract. But unless the ecclesiastical law formed no part of the law of the land, it was a religious contract also. It was a civil contract as far as civil rights were concerned, and it was equally a religious right in religious matters. The ecclesiastical courts can know nothing of a divorce femme sole;1717è vinculo matrimonii;The Lord Chancellor
 said, he never could believe that, ultimately, the House would pass a measure which was unnecessary, which was defective with reference to the mode of proceeding, and which was not established by that incontrovertible evidence, on which alone it ought to stand. He could not avoid congratulating their lordships on the division that took place yesterday. Let their lordships look at that division, and ask themselves whether it was possible that a large proportion of those noble lords who voted for the bill could have come to the consideration of this subject with perfectly unbiassed minds? It could not be forgotten that a large proportion of that majority was composed of the accusers themselves—a large proportion of it was constituted of individuals who had recently received favours from the Crown.The Earl of Darnley
1708 said, that in the usual proceedings of the House, the course adopted in committees was, in the first instance, to postpone the preamble. In the present case, however, the proceeding should be on the truth or falsehood of the preamble. That was the question now. The early part of the preamble he considered to be completely proved. With respect to that part of the clause in which her majesty was stated to have obtained for Bergami
1708The Earl of Liverpool
 objected to the words "and in other respects."Lord Ellenborough
 said, that the allegation was most material, and he begged to call the attention of the House to that part of the evidence by which it was borne out [Here the noble earl referred to various parts of the evidence which supported the allegation.]The Earl of Liverpool
 said, he understood the words "and in other respects" to mean offensive and indecent familiarities towards other persons besides Bergami. The instances stated by the noble earl were all instances in which Bergami was present.Lord Ellenborough
 said, his idea was, that the words did not imply familiarities towards other individuals, but that they expressed offensive and indecent familiarities where Bergami was not alone with her. He had, however, no objection to leave out the words.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that although the evidence at the bar proved her majesty guilty of adultery, yet, thinking that the bill ought not to pass, he submitted, that the person who was to remain Queen of this country ought not to be declared by their lordships guilty of "adulterous intercourse." To retain such an allegagation would be to degrade the king and the queen.Lord Ellenborough
1710York said, that, it being not a case of adultery, the word "suspicious" was the proper term.1710YorkLord Gage
 said, that having no doubt that the crime of adultery bad been proved against her majesty, he voted yesterday for the second reading of the bill. This vote, however, he gave on, an understanding that the divorce clause was to be laid aside.The Bishop of Chester
a vinculo matrimonii said, that if the question was, whether divorces a vinculo matrimoniiThe Archbishop of Canterbury
1711 opposed the divorce clause. He could not vote for it, unless the Queen were allowed the same
1711The Bishop of Worcester
 thought that to retain the clause would, on the whole, be most advisable. According to the law of the country, ho knew no other cause of divorce than adultery, and no other punishment for adultery than divorce; and, as to the Christian law, it certainly provided that dissolution of marriage might take place in any case of adultery.The Bishop of Landaff
 said, that in the present case a great constitutional question was involved, and in a constitutional point of view it must be regarded. It was a maxim of the constitution of this country, that the king could do no wrong. It was said by an able writer, that the king could not be guilty of a folly, much less a crime. This principle, if carried to the full length, would seem to remove all ground for recrimination, all inquiry into the conduct of his majesty in his conjugal relations. He did not, however, mean to argue it on such a principle. He saw no reason why the clause of divorce should not remain. There were many instances of bills of divorce having passed that House, though the conduct of the husband was notoriously reprehensible. The essential point was, the proof of adultery, which he considered to be established, and therefore, in a moral, constitutional, and religious point of view, he felt it his duty to support the clause.The Bishop of London
femme couvertefemme sole1712peccatum said, that in wishing to exclude the divorce clause, he contended for no other proposition than this,—that the parties had not come before them in a situation that admitted of its application. Her majesty had acquired, by her marriage contract, rights both public and private. She had been found disqualified for exercising her public rights, and, therefore, she was by this bill to be deprived of them. But, was this any ground for the House going farther? Was there to be one law for the King, and another for the subject? No. He agreed with the learned doctor (Lushington), who had spoken admirably and eloquently for the defence, that the law of marriage was the same with regard to the highest as to the lowest subject in the realm. If he was rightly informed, adultery in the ecclesiastical court was considered as a femme couvertefemme sole1712peccatumThe Earl of Lauderdale
1713 also expressed his astonishment that the right rev. metropolitan, should lay the ground for the divorce clause in the Scriptures. He had never seen any thing of the kind in the Holy Scriptures: he recollected a text which said, "he that putteth away his wife, saving for fornication, causeth her to commit adultery." Now, in this case, had not the husband put away his wife? If he had, and it was not for fornication, had he or had he not caused her to commit adultery? It appeared to him that they could not pass the bill with the divorce clause, nor without it. Not with, for the reasons he had already stated; not without, for how could the Queen be degraded without being divorced? Could the wife of the King be other than Queen? Could any of their lordships wives lose
1713The Earl of Darnley
 said, that the case was not to be considered as one in which common parties were concerned. The King was not a suitor to the House; he only appeared as the head of the state, and not in his personal character. The case could not, therefore, be decided by the rules applicable to private individuals. Their lordships had already determined that the conduct of the Queen had been such as to render her unfit to remain a sovereign. They owed it to the country, to the King, to themselves—they especially owed it to the women of the country, to pass this clause. There were few of their lordships who had not declared their opinion, that the act of adultery had been proved. Many of those who had voted against the bill, thought it right to state their conviction of the guilt of the illustrious person in question. The evidence had proved her to be unfit to sit as Queen Consort of these realms. They had understood on high authority, that his majesty himself had no feeling on the subject. It was not for any purpose of a personal nature that this bill ought to be passed. God forbid that the House should pass it on such a ground. But in what a light would their lordships appear, if, after agreeing to the early part of the preamble, they should omit the two concluding lines, lest it should be supposed they were courting the royal favour! He was fully convinced, that the clause ought to be retained in the bill.The Earl of Donoughmore
1707 said, that the House had already done mischief for which there was no remedy; and, though their lordships might still compel his attendance, he would not utter a single word during the remainder of the proceedings. The suggestion of his noble friend appeared to him to be unnecessary. The only exception which the House had a right to take, referred to that part of the protest in which allusion had been made to the conduct of noble lords in that House. But if it was meant to be insinuated, that the other exceptions made by her majesty were not just, from that conclusion he must dissent, thinking, as he did, that they were most just. It was true that some noble lords had reconciled it to their consciences to pronounce a verdict of guilty, without hearing the whole of the evidence. Of that he did not com-
1707Earl Grey
1714 said, that the measure was founded on state policy; but the introduction of the divorce clause appeared to him to give it the air of a measure of personal relief. Since that time he found that a great impression to that effect had been made in other quarters. Consider-able difference of opinion prevailed among the right rev. prelates, who had devoted themselves to the consideration of the subject, and he understood that the disinclination to agree to this clause was not confined to those who had stated to the House their individual sentiments. It would by no means be necessary, if the divorce clause were omitted, that the re-
1714The Earl of Harrowby
 asked, if the fact was proved, how it was possible not to state it in the preamble? This was the feeling of every man who voted for the second reading; and many who had voted against the second reading had stated that they believed the adultery.The Earl of Harrowby
1702 rose for the purpose of presenting a protest on the part of her majesty, which had just been put into his hands by her attorney-general. He ought, perhaps, to apologize for not having stated his sentiments as to the proceedings
1702Lord Dacre
 said, that he should not have thought it worth his while to notice the allusions in which he was included, if he had not been desirous of appearing to noble lords, for whom he bad great respect, to have had sufficient reason for occasional absence. He had been extremely ill since the adjournment of the House, and he came up on the 3rd of October, at the hazard of his life, to attend his duty in that House; but when he did not attend, it was at the urgent solicitation of his medical advisers. He was credibly informed, however, that he had lost nothing by not attending the debates, but that he was saved some mortification by not being a witness to certain; concessions and submissions—that he I always understood their lordships should I be guided by the written evidence, and no other—that it should be recollected the I written evidence alone guided the decisions of the Court of Chancery, and also I Doctors' Commons; and he presumed to say, he was as well acquainted with the evidence as any of their lordships; but he particularly protested against the suggestion, that it was unfair to her majesty's cause to decide on the written evidence, and insisted that it was infinitely more favourable to the Queen, because that evidence did not record many prevarications, evasions, change of countenance, faintings, and other symptoms that might have made a very unfavourable impression.Lord Sheffield
 said, he could conceive nothing more mischievous than suffering it to be understood, that, because a peer had been a member of a secret committee, he should therefore be disqualified from his vote. With respect to the statement in the paper which referred to the members of the secret committee, it was an imputation not only absolutely false, but scandalous.Lord Redesdale
 took the opportunity of asserting, that the whole proceeding against the Queen obviously arose out of abase and foul conspiracy, supported by perjuredwitnesses. For one, he could fearlessly lay his hand upon his heart, and give a verdict of "not guilty."Lord Duncan
 said, that the words ought to be left out; first, because they were not proved by the evidence, and, also because the paper laid by her majesty on the table confirmed the opinion of her innocence. In the course of his professional life he had heard protestations of innocence from the mouths of persons whom he believed to be guilty; but, feeling an opinion that she was innocent from the evidence, that declaration by her majesty confirmed his opinion on the evidence. As the case was not proved by the evidence, the protestation of the accused must confirm the belief of her innocence. But his reason for opposing the words was, that they were most degrading to the king. How was it possible to degrade the Queen, and not to divorce her? Was it not the first object, in every case of adultery, to be relieved from the party whose infidelity should be proved? He was of opinion that no adultery had been proved, and he thought the first moment of striking out the charge ought to be taken.Lord Erskine
1719 said:—My Lords; It is with pain that I offer myself to the notice of your lordships, which I should not have done, had it not been for the very direct manner in which the body, of which I form a part, were called upon yesterday. My lords, I will refer you to the 32nd verse of the 5th chapter of St. Matthew. My mind has long been made up to vote against the Divorce clause from that very verse; but, if I can show that this illustrious lady has been put away by her husband; if I also show from the Holy Scriptures a solemn denunciation against such putting away, then shall I show sufficient ground to induce me to vote against the Divorce clause, which would release the King from the marriage contract, and leave him at liberty to marry again. That such a putting away of the wife did take place is abundantly evident from the letter of the husband. The denunciation to which I have alluded is in the 2nd chapter of Malachi, when, for literally putting away a wife, the face of the Lord was turned away from the people, and he regarded not their offerings. The temples resounded with the lamentations of the women; and the Prophet established his charge against them as a crying sin, by reminding them of the first institution of marriage. The God of Israel hath said, "he hateth all putting away." My lords, I stand here a most unwilling judge in this cause, and I will candidly confess that nothing but the heavy penalties attached to absence, would have compelled me to attend this distressing investigation. I have been brought here, from the most important duties, which no one but myself could be called upon to perform, and which have been suspended three months in consequence of my absence. I have paid every attention to the whole of the evidence on both sides—to the able arguments of counsel and to the eloquent speeches of noble lords. I have attended every day, every hour, and, I may almost say, every minute; and I have voted for the second reading of this bill, because no other measure was before the House, in which I could declare that a clear, satisfactory, and irresistible case had been made out of the guilt of the
1719The Archbishop of Tuam
 said, that it had ever been his desire, that, if possible, the clause should be omitted, not that he had felt any doubt as to its legality, for he was sure that in cases of adultery, divorce was sanctioned as well by the laws of God as by those of man; and he was compelled to acknowledge, that in this case the adultery had been clearly proved. But there were in his mind objections to the manner in which it had been introduced. He thought a Divorce clause ought not to be made a part of a bill of Pains and Penalties. He could not see how the Queen could be placed in a state of degradation, and yet at the same time remain the wife of the King. The wife of the King was, to all intents and purposes, Queen-Consort. He, therefore, desired to know, remaining in this situation, by what possible enactment she could be deprived of the title of Queen. The Divorce clause made the bill intelligible, its object being to degrade; but without that, or some clause in its place, it would not be distinctly expressed in what the degradation of her majesty was to consist. Instead of agreeing to the Divorce clause, could not a clause be introduced less powerful in its operation, yet, at the same time sufficient to give effect to the sentence of degradation, though free from the objections which applied to the Divorce clause? The objections to the Divorce clause were chiefly of a religious nature; but as matrimony, though unquestionably a religious institution, was also a civil contract, and gave civil rights, he would ask if those civil rights could not be annulled, leaving the religious part of the contract untouched by this bill? Any clause that might be offered to effect this, should have his support.The Bishop of Peterborough
è vinculo matrimonii.è mensa et thoro1721 said, that with respect to the declaration which had been made upon this clause at the beginning of the discussions upon this subject by his noble friend near him (the earl of Liverpool), he begged to be understood as a party to it now, though he had not so expressed himself at the time. His noble friend on the former occasion had said, that this clause should not be pressed, if it was found objectionable to the religious' part of the community. If such were the general impression, he also thought it advisable that the clause should not be pressed, though he himself thought it would be more wise to retain the clause. Having thus stated the impression of his own judgment, he was most ready to pay that deference to the religious opinions of others, which, as a public man, he felt he was bound to do. He could not, however, say, that he concurred in the opinion of marriage being more a religious vow than a religious contract. He thought that the civil contract arose out of its being a religious one. But he thought it was quite obvious that, if the Divorce clause were omitted, the bill could not be suffered to stand with the first enactment, and without some explanatory one respecting the object of the bill. It was due to both parties that the first enactment should not stand unaccompanied by another to: make the bill fully intelligible. If a majority of the House should be of opinion that this clause should stand, then there I would be an end of the necessity of any j further proposition upon the subject. If, however, they dismissed the Divorce
è vinculo matrimonii.è mensa et thoro1721The Lord Chancellor
in toto,1722 said, he felt it his duty to protest against the doctrine, that there might exist a woman the wife of the King and not the Queen-Consort of these realms. He felt all the objections to the admissions of the clause before them, but he felt still more the difficulty of admitting a character directly irreconcilable to the constitution—a person being the wife of the King, but fulfilling no one purpose, answering no one end which the country expected, and had a right to expect, from the wife of the Sovereign. Their lordships, after admitting the clause, reading it a second time with the bill, and then rejecting it in the committee, would proclaim to the world that the Queen had been an adulteress; but that, entertaining that opinion, they thought it fit that she should continue the wife of the King. Disguise it as they would, this was the effect of their declaration. Was it a matter of indifference to proclaim this, when the whole course of history and the whole tenor of the laws, asserted the principle that the marriage of the King was contracted to answer, not individual purposes, but great public objects, and when parliament had legislated with that view? Admitting that the Queen might be degraded, and yet remain the wife of the King, they incapacitated her, and also the King himself from rendering those public services by means of marriage, which parliament always had considered that the marriage was contracted to answer. He did not say that he approved of the clause in itself,
in toto,1722The Marquis of Lansdown
1723videlicet, said, he was anxious to see the enactments of the bill less absurd than the preamble was unjust; for he considered there was an utter want of evidence, and that the noble lords had been influenced by reports. He would confess that he, for one, had not been able, though he endeavoured to divest his mind of them. He had heard, for instance, in support of the assertion, that the Queen had been guilty of indecent familiarities with Bergami, that she had been guilty of indecent familiarities of the same nature with the earl of Liver-pool, at Blackheath, 1723videlicet,Lord King
 entreated of their lordships to consider what they were in effect declaring to the country, by enacting, that a person unfit for being the Queen of this country, must remain the wife of the King. It was, in fact, passing a seditious libel against the King.Lord Ellenborough
 could not reconcile it to his mind to vote that a person declared guilty of adultery should remain a millstone about the King's neck.Lord Somers
 said, he had voted for the second reading from the clearest conviction of the Queen's guilt; but if this clause were omitted, the bill would degrade, not only the Queen, but the King, and the nation, by leaving as the wife of the possessor of the throne a woman whom they had declared to be guilty of adultery.The Earl of Limerick
 said, he must vote for divorcing one whose name was covered with shame, disgrace, and dishonour.Lord Hampden
1726 said, that a noble marquis had stated, that it was a monstrous anomaly to strip the Queen of her rights and privileges, and still suffer her to remain the wife of the King; but, was there a single woman in the country who had no civil, no private rights? One of those rights, and it was the right of every married woman, was her husband's protection. If their lordships were of a different opinion, he should regret having suffered the bill to reach its present stage, without having declared his sentiments against it. A right reverend prelate had reminded them of the principle, that the King could do no wrong. This might be a good principle in Jaw; and he knew that it was in some senses correct; but, if taken ac-
1726Lord Falmouth
 said, he was under the painful necessity, however, of differing with his friends, so far as to think that the divorce clause ought not to stand part of the bill. The argument of the right reverend prelate had not been answered. Feeling irresistibly the force of it, he could not consent to give a vote for the divorce of the Queen, but he would give no vote on the other side.The Earl of Darnley
1724 said, he would vote for the Divorce clause, in order to give the greatest possible chance of throwing out
1724Lord Anson
 declared his entire conviction of the innocence of the Queen; in the hope of saving whom from the foul confederacy which sought her destruction, he should vote for the Divorce clause.The Earl of Thanet
 begged their lordships to consider what the consequence would be of passing a bill of degradation without Divorce. They were all aware of a statute which made it high treason to violate the wife of the sovereign. They proposed to pass a bill of degradation in order to protect the morality of the country. Her majesty might still remain in the kingdom and might continue to indulge in that vice which they assumed to be proved. Would any noble lord say that her prosecutors could come to that House for a second bill of Pains and Penalties against her majesty? If this were purely a bill of divorce, no ground whatever could be assumed for degradation but the ground of divorce on account of adultery. Were their lordships to declare, by their vote, that a person not fit to be the associate of the meanest individual in the land, was yet a fit individual to be the associate of the King? He, for one, would never concur in such a wanton insult on the King.The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, that in his view the objection to the bill was ten times stronger than it could be in his noble friend's view. If they rejected the divorce, the Queen would still be the companion of the King, and whoever should violate her, would be guilty of high treason. He would vote for the clause, in order to throw out the bill.Lord Holland
1725 said, he had been anxious to hear the opinions of the reverend bench of bishops on this subject; and the result of their opinions had confirmed those which he had before entertained, that, by the law of God, there was no impediment to divorce in cases of adultery. He differed in opinion from a learned lord, who had said, that if the divorce clause was rejected, the Queen would only remain wife of the King as to her religious rights, but that all her civil rights would be forfeited. Finding nothing in the law of God to prevent divorce for adultery; and, believing the adultery in the present case to have been proved, he would not consent, that a woman, who had been deemed unfit to retain the rank and situation of Queen
1725The Marquis of Buckingham
 said, that in his opinion, the separation of the Divorce clause from that which enacted degradation was utterly incompatible with that sense of duty towards the Crown which the Crown had a right to expect from the supporters of this bill. He felt considerable difficulty in voting for this clause, as it assumed that that had been made out which he thought had not been established. He had formed the intention of giving no vote; but he now made up his mind to vote for retaining this clause, believing that it would place the House in such a situation that they must reject the bill altogether, and thus confer upon the country the greatest service that it was in their power to confer.Earl Grey
 said, that the bill had his most entire and unqualified approbation, and that he would never consent to the exclusion of the only important enactment, and one which necessarily followed the preamble of the bill. A noble viscount had yesterday declared it as his conscientious opinion, that the Queen was the victim of a foul and base conspiracy. He trusted it would not be thought too presumptuous in him, if (after having given the evidence and arguments on both sides the most anxious attention) he declared, from an equally conscientious conviction, that instead of being the victim of a foul conspiracy, her conduct had been most degrading and scandalous—most adulterous and infamous.Earl Manvers
 said, that from the evidence an irresistible conviction having been impressed on his mind that adultery was committed, he voted for the second reading of the bill. No consideration on earth could have induced him to vote as he had done, but a thorough belief that the charge was completely made out. He could enter into no compromise with adultery, and must therefore support the clause.The Earl of Glasgow
 thought he could reconcile to himself the inconsistency of voting for the Divorce clause, even after the perfect conviction that not one atom of the preamble of the bill had been proved. He never had a doubt, that at no distant period, this foul conspiracy would come to light, and that the plots of the Grimms and the Omptedas would be developed. He felt it his duty to state, in justice to this illustrious princess, that in 1819 he had the honour of waiting upon her at Lyons, where there existed no mystery whatever, and where the conduct of Bergami was of the most respectful description.The Earl of Essex
1720 said, he admitted that marriage was a civil contract and also a religious contract; but it was also in the nature of a religious vow, and from that vow no human power could relieve the parties. The only question was, whether by the adultery of the wife that vow was not discharged as to the husband? But as marriage was a civil contract, it affected other parties besides those who contracted; for instance, the children born of the wife: a divorce was to regulate the civil rights, and so far only did any
1720Lord Redesdale
 said, that as all the modifications in the bill, consisted merely in verbal alterations he called upon those noble lords who had voted for the second reading, under an idea that the preamble and enactments would undergo a material change, to vote for the rejection of the bill.Lord Ellenborbugh
1729 wished to say a few words with regard to what had occurred on leaving out the divorce clause. Their lordships had been distinctly told by a noble lord of the highest political talents, and a person for whom he entertained the greatest respect, that his rea-
1729The Earl of Lauderdale
Lauderdale said, that to be accused of tricking and manœuvring, when he openly avowed the object of his conduct, appeared to him the most extraordinary charge ever made in that House. If tricks and manœuvres were to be referred to, what was to be said of the tricks and manœuvres of those who, in order to obtain votes for the second reading of the bill, held out an expectation, that the divorce clause would be abandoned in the committee, and that the bill would undergo very material alterations and modifications? Had it not been for that expectation, many a noble lord would not have voted for the second reading. But the noble and learned lord on the woolsack, after a very eloquent speech in support of the divorce clause, concluded with voting against it; and in this conduct he was imitated by several cabinet ministers, who had themselves introduced the clause. This, however, he supposed they had sufficient reason for doing. He agreed with the noble lord (Ellenborough) that those who voted for the second reading of the bill, in hopes of its being altered in the committee, had been grossly deceived. He hoped that those noble lords who had given a pledge that they would not vote for the bill with the divorce clause, would now redeem that pledge, and get rid of the bill altogether. The Earl of LauderdaleEarl Grey
l.1730 said, with respect to the divorce clause, he would also ask, if any one could fairly accuse him of trick or manœuvre? Had he not, from the beginning, represented that this was not an act for personal relief, but for the remedy of a great public grievance?l.1730The Earl of Liverpool
17321731 rose to propose an amendment. His object, he said, was to get rid of the divorce clause. Could he by any means have brought himself to con-
17321731Lord Kenyon
1741"pro salute animi""a mensa et thoro,"1740 said, it did appear to him, he must confess, to be totally impossible, that any man should vote for a second reading of this bill, who did not feel himself entirely convinced of the guilt of the Queen. It was not, in that stage of the proceeding, his duty to enter into any consideration of the policy of what might be to be done, should
1741"pro salute animi""a mensa et thoro,"1740The Lord Chancellor
1742 said, he had given his vote to the second reading of this bill upon the full but painful conviction that her majesty was guilty. As it appeared to his judgment, the crime of adultery could be proved by circumstantial evidence alone; and it also appeared to him, that in the present case, that evidence had been accumulated in a most convincing manner. If, as she solemnly protested in the name of her Maker, she were innocent, never in the annals of the world was innocence accompanied with such corroborating circumstances of guilt. He had voted against the divorce clause, because he thought it contrary to the religious precepts expounded by the Divine Teacher of Christianity. These were the motives which induced him to vote as he had done; and he wished them to be understood, in order to repel the insinuation that those who voted against the divorce clause were degrading the King. So far was this reflection unmerited on his part, that he had heard with surprise and abhorrence the abuse which had been made of the sacred name of their sovereign. One noble earl had said, that he would have thrown the Liturgy in his face. And it was with shame and horror he had heard a monarch, whose regency would bear a triumphant comparison with the proudest period of our history, compared with the most sanguinary and merciless monster that ever degraded the human form—the eternally execrated despot of Imperial Rome. Having voted for the second read-
1742The Bishop of Chester
 said, that as an allusion had been made to an expression of his, by the right rev. prelate, he begged permission to explain the phrase he had made use of. It was perfectly true, that he had used the words imputed to him; but he had done so in this manner. A rumour had prevailed—whether true or not he at the time had said he could not tell—that the supporters of ministers had given out that his majesty was the main cause of this unfortunate question being agitated, notwithstanding the decided voice of the country; and that it was the King himself who desired the archbishop to omit her majesty's name in the Liturgy. He had said at the time that he thought this rumour extremely discreditable to ministers; and, having thus stated his opinion of it, he certainly did declare, that were he in the situation of the archbishop, feeling, as he did, the evil which the erasure of the Queen's name was likely to entail upon the country, he should, sooner than strike it out from the Liturgy, have thrown the Prayer-book in his majesty's face; had he been even pressed by him so to do, which he could not believe. And he had also said, that under such circumstances, sooner than remain one of his majesty's administration, he would have trampled upon the seals of office. Such were his sentiments upon the measures; and he implored the House to consider the situation in which it would be placed, if, in decided opposition to the general sense of the country, they pressed this bill with such a majority for its second reading as 28, in a House of 223 members present. That majority could never be supposed as giving the real concurrence of the House to a bill of this nature; and unless it had the general concurrence of the House, the minister had said at the commencement of the business he thought it ought not to be pressed. The more he thought of the matter, the more decided was his impression of its obnoxious character.Earl Grosvenor
1735 said, that nothing would give him more satisfaction than to be able to say that in his judgment the bill ought not to pass. Sorry he was that a conviction directly the contrary was decidedly fixed in his mind. He thought it nearly impossible to doubt that the guilt of her majesty had been established, when a considerable majority of their lordships had voted for the second reading of the bill, and when many of those peers who decided against its being read a second time, had expressed strong suspicions of her majesty's conduct, while several of them had positively declared their conviction that she was guilty. It appeared to him, that several points were to be considered in deciding on this case. The first point to be considered was the positive proofs which they had of the Queen's guilt. It had been argued, that the character of the persons who had given evidence at the bar, was such as to deny them all claim to credit, and that their testimony was shown to be such, that it must be regarded as destructive to the whole charge. To him it appeared, that the direct reverse of all this had turned out to be the fact. The evidence of Barbara Kress was such, that a noble lord opposed to this measure had given it as his opinion, that she was a fair and ingenuous witness; but he had argued that she might have been mistaken. He must contend, that on every fair consideration of evidence, the testimony of Kress could not be invalidated. But after all the inquiries that had been made with respect to her character, not a single act had been proved against her. The noble lord having stated the case of Carlsruhe, and from the Minutes the Evidence given on this subject, declared that it appeared to him as strong as any evidence could be, that adultery had been committed. Bergami was seen in bed, with his arm round the neck of the princess, who was sitting on the bed, and the next day a cloak worn by her royal highness was found in the bed. What could be stronger than this? His understanding might be weak, but certainly such a fact carried conviction to his mind. He then noticed the evidence given by Kress, with respect to the stains which she had
1735Lord Somers
 said, that he was satisfied of the guilt of her majesty, and should therefore vote for the third reading of the bill. The evidence of Hownam alone, was sufficient to convince him of that, and he was only surprised how the noble lords opposite could entertain a contrary opinion on the subject; and he hoped that, considering the sincerity they evinced of her majesty's innocence, they would add to it by letting their wives and daughters associate with the Queen, He was anxious not to give a silent vote upon this occasion, in consequence of the threats held out by the counsel at the bar.The Marquis of Huntley
 said, that he had closely attended throughout the whole of these proceedings. In his opinion the evidence of Majoochi and Demont, which bore the burden of the proof in this case, was inconsistent. His clear and conscientious vote was therefore against the bill.The Marquis of Donegal
 stated, that he could not concur in the divorce clause in this bill, which, if not hostile to, was certainly inconsistent with, the spirit and tenor of the Christian morality and law. It did appear to him inconsistent with the standing order of the House on other occasions, and not according to impartial justice between the parties. This being his conscientious feeling, regarding the Divorce clause, he was compelled to vote against the third reading of the bill.The Bishop of Gloucester
 in voting against the bill, could not help making this observation:—that, among the strange peculiarities of this case, was this: that the strongest evidence of her majesty's guilt was derived from her own witnesses.Lord Ellenborough,
 implored those noble lords, whose opinions were yet wavering as to the expediency and policy of this bill, to step forward in this its last stage, and stay a measure so pregnant with such disastrous consequences.The Earl of Darnley
 said, that he apprehended such a course would be rendered unnecessary by what he was about to state. He could not be ignorant of the state of public feeling with regard to this measure; and it appeared to be the opinion of the House that the bill should be read a third time only by a majority of nine votes; Had the third reading been carried by as considerable a number of peers as the second had been, he and his noble colleagues would have felt it their duty to persevere in the bill, and to send it down to the other branch of the legislature. In the present state of the country, however, and with the division of sentiment so nearly balanced, just evinced by their lordships, they had come to the determination not to proceed further with it. It was his intention, accordingly, to move "That the further consideration of the bill be adjourned to this day six months."The Earl of Liverpool
 declared, in the most solemn manner, that he had given his vote for the third reading of the bill on the clearest and most conscientious conviction of the Queen's guilt.The Duke of Montrose
1747ex-parte complained of the whole course which ministers had pursued with regard to the bill, which, after the declaration of the noble earl, could scarcely be said to be before the House, but which was still before the country, and would long live in its memory. He charged the servants of the Crown with the grossest neglect of duty, in the first instance, it listening only to 1747ex-parteEarl Grey
 observed, that he had been entrusted with a petition from her majesty, praying to be heard by counsel against the passing of the bill.Lord Dacre
 said, that upon looking into the whole of the evidence, he must pronounce a verdict of Not Guilt.The Duke of Grafton
17381737the,few1736 said:—My lords; I have abstained from offering myself to your lordships in the earlier stages of this business, in the persuasion that my sentiments were delivered by my noble friends who sit near me, with much more satisfaction to myself, and with much greater impression on the House, than they would have been expressed by me. If, however, I could mistrust my own judgment in this matter, it would be because it differs from that of a noble person (lord Grenville), with whom I am not more connected by the ties of relationship, than by habits of mutual confidence, and by entire unity of sentiment. I reflect with pride and satisfaction that this is the first time that I have differed from him on any subject of great public
17381737the,few1736Earl Fortescue
17341733 said, that, having been one of those who thought that the course of events subsequently to the late arrival of her majesty in this country, had rendered an inquiry into her conduct absolutely necessary—having thought that it was equally necessary the inquiry should be of the nature which it afterwards had been—having thought then, as now, that his noble friends who were charged with his majesty's administration, were actuated only by an imperative sense of duty in bringing the subject before parliament, and having concurred in their measures respecting this inquiry, up to the stage
17341733The Earl of Morley
1739 said, he must express his decided dissent from a measure, which was, in his opinion, "derogatory from the honour of the Crown, and injurious to the best interests of the nation." He had refrained from giving any vote upon the question when the bill was in a committee, because he felt that he could not conscientiously vote for it, without admitting that the Queen had been guilty of adultery and of indecency, and thereby dishonouring both her majesty and the King. It was with extreme astonishment, however, that he saw his majesty's ministers opposing the divorce clause, thus consenting to the emasculation of their own measure, and depriving it of that feature which alone could indicate their own belief in the premises. He confessed that he was quite surprised to hear the noble earl at the head of the treasury commenting upon that evidence and those premises in the way he had done, assuming as facts all that the pure, the modest, and the immaculate Demont, had been pleased to assert upon her examination. [Some signs of dissent were manifested among the lords on the opposite benches.] He understood the noble earl to argue as if he implicitly relied upon her testimony. The noble baron on the cross-bench had followed on the same side; but, if the noble lord would refer to the evidence of Dr. Holland, be would find that it afforded but the solitary confirmation of the fact relative to her royal highness's visit to the theatre St. Carlos. There was another circumstance upon which the noble earl had commented with peculiar severity; namely, that her royal highness had been guilty of the most unbecoming condescension in appearing at masquerades; on one occasion as an Automaton, and on another as the Genius of History. Now, really, in treating the subject in this manner, the noble earl appeared to know very little what was the custom of foreign courts, where it was
1739The Duke of Bedford
 said:—I see the fate of this odious measure consummated, I heartily rejoice at this event. My lords, I am an old man; and my life, whether it has been for good or for evil, has been passed under the sacred rule of the law. In this moment I feel my strength renovated by that rule being restored. The accursed charge wherewithal we had been menaced has passed over our heads. There is an end of that horrid and portentous excrescence of a new law, retrospective, iniquitous, and oppressive; and the constitution and scheme of our polity is once more safe. My heart is too full of the escape we have just had to let me do more than praise the blessings of the system we have regained; but I cannot praise them adequately myself, and I, therefore, prefer expressing my own sentiments in the fine language of one of the most eloquent authors of any age, Hooker, who thus speaks in his great work on Ecclesiastical Polity:—"Of Law there can be no less acknowledged than that her seat is the bosom of God; her voice the harmony of the world: all things in heaven and earth do her homage; the very least as feeling her care, and the greatest as not exempted from her power. Both angels and men, and creatures of what condition soever, though each in different sort and manner, yet all with uniform concert, admiring her as the mother of their peace and joy."Lord Erskine
1743 should content himself with saying, notwithstanding his great re-
1743Lord Erskine
 expressed his determination to oppose the third reading of the bill.Lord Alvanley
