27 admitted that such might be the meaning of the learned gen-
27Lord Castlereagh
 said, it was competent to the learned gentleman, if he thought proper, to move at that instant for the documents he wanted.Lord Folkestone
 said, it was not usual for gentlemen to give notices of motions before the King's Speech had been taken into consideration. He did not mean to say, that it was not competent to members to do so, but he thought that, unless under very peculiar circumstances, the respect which was due to his majesty ought to induce the House not to engage in any previous discussions.Mr. Banket
 thought the learned member could not make any motion of the kind without notice.Lord Castlereagh
29 thought it would be more convenient to give notice of the motion. The learned member was transgressing the rules and forms of the House. He was moving without notice for documents which nobody understood. If the learned member thought there was any reluctance on his part to produce those do-
29Lord Castlereagh
 complained, that his noble friend had been entirely misunderstood, and therefore misrepresented by the learned gentleman. Was that learned gentleman so ignorant of parliamentary forms, as not to know the difference between consulting public printed documents, and consulting public documents properly authenticated? The latter were dispersed in different public offices; and therefore, without previous inquiry, it was impossible to say where a man could lay his hands upon them. The right hon. member was proceeding whenMr. Bathurst
l.l. was obliged to the hon. member for reminding him that he was perhaps subjecting himself to a fine of 500l.l.Mr. Bathurst
 replied, that the salary belonging to that office was in the appointment of the Crown. Now, the Crown had not, as yet, appointed him any salary, as he was already in possession of another office under it.Mr. Bathurst
 referred to the act in question, which, he contended, did not include members holding offices without salary. He then proceeded to argue upon the question before the House. His noble friend had no objection to the principle of the motion, but he conceived some delay necessary, in order to procure the documents called for. They were not to be picked up in the streets, nor in the shop of a bookseller, but must be had from the most authentic sources.Mr. Bathurst
 said, that his! learned friend laboured under a very erroneous impression. He had stated that, because these documents were not in the possession of ministers, ministers had no justifiable grounds for erasing her majesty's name from the Liturgy; but he had been completely misinformed: for he ought to have known that there could be no alteration in the Liturgy without an order of council. He could assure the House that ministers had consulted the documents then moved for.The Solicitor-General
 fully concurred in the observation of the learned serjeant—an observation on which every member, he trusted, would feel it his duty to act, namely, that the question to which the present motion referred, should be discussed as one of constitutional law, without reference to party or partiality. But, though he agreed most fully with him in that feeling, he still must consider the present a most improper time for such a motion. An allusion had been made by the learned serjeant to cases in which discussions on questions, independent of privilege, preceded the consideration of a speech from the throne. It was true that such cases did occur; but every member would recollect with what disapprobation these very extraordinary motions had been received by the House.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
60595857lll56llllllllll5554 said, he did not rise an account of any thing which had fallen from the right hon. gentleman who had spoken last; on the contrary, he thought he had gone through the several topics of the Speech from the throne, with much candour, and a great deal of good temper. He might be allowed to say, however, that when, in an early part of the evening, he had seen the right hon. gentleman driving into the field of the hon. and learned member, he was led to believe that the debate would be a long and stormy one, and he did not know at what period of the morning they would be enabled to separate. Now it appeared that he had been mistaken, and for all that had happened, they might as well have proceeded at once to the ordinary business, as have consumed the early part of the evening in a very novel and useless kind of debate. But, though it could not be objected to the Speech from the throne, that it contained any topic which could excite a debate, they were, nevertheless, told, that important matters had been omitted which it should not have passed over. An hon. gentleman opposite (Mr. Curwen,) had brought before the notice of the House the agricultural interests. He could assure the hon. gentleman that government did not look with indifference on them or on any of the interests in which the prosperity of the country was bound up; but he believed that the distress of which he spoke, arose more from the internal circumstances of the country, than the state of the laws as
60595857lll56llllllllll5554Lord Castlereagh
64636261 observed, that however much provoked to do so by some of the topics which the noble lord had introduced in his speech, he would not detain the House for any length of time. He certainly did not entertain much hope that the country would get rid of the noble lord, if it depended on that House. So long as the influence of government was exercised in that House—that was, so long as the House was constituted as it was, so long he had no doubt the noble lord would enjoy the confidence and support of that House, in spite of the opinion of the country. He dared to say, the noble lord, or his right hon. friends, could shew them in black and white how well their trust in the confidence of the House was founded. He dared to say that the gentlemen of the Treasury, if they exhibited the correspondence which usually took place before the meeting of parliament, could afford a very satisfactory reason for the expectation of ministers on the subject. But, if the noble lord relied on the confidence of the country—if he thought, that because, he possessed the confidence of the sovereign and of that House, he therefore possessed the confidence of the country, he would find that he was very much mistaken. The events of the last three months ought to convince the noble lord of his error, if he supposed that he and his friends possessed the confidence of the country. At no period of our history had half, or even a tithe of the number of public meetings taken place, that had been held within the period he had mentioned; and at every one of those meetings, held in such a manner as to admit of public discussion, the conduct of the noble lord and his colleagues had experienced the most unequivocal reprobation. That a number of what were called Loyal Addresses had been sent up to the Crown, he knew perfectly well; but they had been voted in secret, among gentlemen who were professed supporters of the present administration, although not one of them had ventured to express any opinion of the measures of the noble lord and his colleagues. Expressions of loyalty coming
64636261Lord Folkestone
 protested against the assumption, that whoever supported the measures of administration, and especially with reference to her majesty, must necessarily be a most servile dependant on a most wicked government. From whom came the objection to the loyal Addresses, which some characterised as abetting tyranny, others as fomenting sedition?—From those who considered it a feather in their caps, that they were the advocates of freedom of opinion. If, however, he, or those who thought with him, expressed their opinion, they were instantly called "dogs," "dunghill dogs," "hole and cornermen."—Hole and corner men!—Why, there was no hole or corner, however obscure, into which he would not retire, if he conceived it necessary to the free and uncontrolled expression of his sentiments. It was the power of expressing an unbiassed opinion, that made the privilege valuable.Mr. Wodehouse
 explained, that he had never objected to the expression of any opinion, but merely to the manner in which it was expressed. He wondered how the King could derive any satisfaction from addresses got up in the secret manner he had pointed out.Lord Folkestone
 rose to vindicate his noble relative, lord Sidmouth, from the imputation which had been cast upon him by the noble lord. He contended, that the selections of the Addresses for presentation to the King were founded in the strictest policy, and denied that in this selection any improper preference had been given.Mr. Bathurst
 gave notice, that he intended upon Friday next to bring forward a motion relative to the omission of the Queen's name in the Liturgy.Lord A. Hamilton
35 was desirous of stating the considerations which would induce him to vote for the motion of his learned friend. Undoubtedly it was the usual practice of the House to postpone, on the first day of the session, the discussion of every question until after the Speech from the throne had been taken into consideration. This rule, however, was not uniformly observed, nor could it
35Mr. Serjeant Onslow
said, he had been misunderstood. He intended to move for the production of certain papers, which he conceived absolutely necessary to a proper understanding of the noble lord's motion.Mr. Wetherell
32 wished to explain the reason why he could not consent to withdraw his motion. He presumed that the noble lord had read over, in February last, the documents which he was now desirous of obtaining. It was in that month that her majesty's name was erased from the Liturgy; and he could not suppose that the privy council would come to a determination on so important a measure without looking into the law and usage of the constitution regarding it. When the noble lord said, that he did not know where to find the documents, did he mean to say, that he had not looked into the litanies of the church to know what were the rights of a Queen Consort before he struck her name out of them? He could not suppose, that when the noble lord hazarded the desperate venture of striking the Queen's name out of the Liturgy in which it had been constantly retained for the long space of two centuries, he was ignorant where to find the records by which the legality or illegality of it was to be defended. Had the noble lord never been at the British Museum? Or was he ignorant that the undoubted, the uniform, and the unbroken usage, from the time of Henry VIII. downwards, was in favour of the Queen's right to have her name continued in the Liturgy? He could not strictly and seriously mean to give a negative to either of these two questions: and one of the principal reasons which induced him to make his present motion without any previous notice was, that he presumed that ministers had carefully investigated each of the required documents. Now, however, they were to be told that they had come too suddenly with the question upon ministers, and that they had been guilty of a paltry parliamentary trick. But the fact was not so: ministers were not taken by surprise. Did the noble lord presume, did the noble lord dare to assert in the face of the Commons of England, that his colleagues erased her majesty's name from the Liturgy, without considering how far they were justified by the laws of the country in doing so? If he meant to say, that they had done it unadvisedly—and unadvisedly he, for one, believed that they had done it—what a censure did he pass upon his coadjutors in office, in saying that they had struck
32Mr. Wetherell
28 said, that provided he could attain his object, the mode by which be did so was quite immaterial to him. He was ready to bow to the will of the House. The papers for which he was about to move were, in his opinion, absolutely necessary, in order to come to a proper understanding of the noble lord's motion. However, in deference to the opinion of the House, he was ready to reverse the proceeding, and to give notice for a future day [cries of "no, no, move now,"]. He would then move at once for "Copies. 1. Of all Collects or Litanies in the Public Liturgy of the Church in each reign, from the reign of James I (inclusive) to the present time, in which
28Mr. Wetherell
 rose for the purpose of making a few observation relative to certain documents, of which he thought the House ought to be in possession, before the motion of the noble lord was taken into consideration. He should, therefore, give notice of a motion for the production of such documents on some day before Friday. He was proceeding to state his reasons for so doing, when he was called to order by.Mr. Wetherell
4443424140He nursed the pinion which impelled the steel."Keen was the pang, but keener still to feel,And winged the shaft which quivered in his heart;"Saw his own feather on the fatal dart,3938 rose, and spoke to the following effect:—Mr. Speaker; In proposing an Address to his Majesty, of acknowledgment for the gracious Speech which we heard some hours ago, and which you have at last had an opportunity of reading to us, I shall not trouble you with any expressions of conscious insufficiency, because I am aware they are a very poor excuse for the presumption of a voluntary undertaking, and because I do not apprehend any thing very difficult in returning a suitable acknowledgment for gracious intimations and assurances, every way calculated to inspire a dutiful and affectionate feeling. As one of his majesty's many, many loyal subjects, I propose, Sir, that we approach his Throne, to assure him of the fidelity of a nation which is sound at heart—a nation not so intoxicated by the splendor of unparalleled triumphs, nor so lulled to apathy by the security of a profound peace, as to visit with ingratitude the promoter of those triumphs and the procurer of this honourable repose. In a nation in which all are free, folly must have her freedom, and mischief will mark her for its tool; folly will discharge her debts of gratitude by denying their amount—by forgetting the danger from which she has been delivered, though ever when in peril herself the loudest to complain and the foremost to despair. The spirit of mischief can
4443424140He nursed the pinion which impelled the steel."Keen was the pang, but keener still to feel,And winged the shaft which quivered in his heart;"Saw his own feather on the fatal dart,3938Mr. George Bankes
3130 said, that as far as he understood the noble lord, he had no objection to the hon. and learned member's motion, hut only to the time of making it. It was most extraordinary, that any objection as to time should be made, when the documents moved for were those upon which the exclusion of her majesty's name from the Liturgy had been rounded; but the noble lord had no idea where those documents could be found! If that was the case, he should wish to know where the noble lord had laid his fingers upon them, when the order in council was made for excluding her majesty's name from the Liturgy? Now he would only beg the House, to consider the way in which the question stood. The learned member who made the motion, was not an ally of his (Mr. Tierney's); he was the uniform supporter of ministers. A noble friend of his had given notice of a motion for Friday. The learned member said, that there were certain documents which he wished to have laid before the House, in order to guide his decision upon that motion. He thought he could not form an opinion in the absence of those documents. The noble lord opposite said he had no objection to the production of the documents, but he would not allow them to be produced now. This was as much as to say, "you must first decide upon the question, and afterwards you may
3130Mr. Tierney
 had to congratulate the House at last on a piece of economy on the part of ministers. One of them held the chancellorship of the duchy of Lancaster and the' presidency of the Board of Control—and yet only received the emoluments of one office!Mr. Tierney
33 was aware that under the act of parliament for managing the affairs of India, there were some commissioners who had no salaries; but there were three who received salaries. Now, he wished to know of the right hon. gentleman whether he was one of the supernumeraries, as they were called, or was the president of the Board of Control! He did not know whether what he had read in the Gazette was correct or not; but there he
33Mr. Tierney
535251lllll504948 said, it was with great satisfaction that in rising to speak, on the first day of the session, on the address in answer to the Speech from the throne, he felt himself freed from the necessity of troubling the House with any amendment. He knew, from long experience, that, as a mark of respect to the Crown, the course always adopted in the House was, never to move an amendment unless the address contained something which pledged gentlemen to an opinion contrary to that which they really entertained. The gentlemen on his side of the House came,
535251lllll504948Mr. Tierney
 said, that it appeared to him that the learned gentleman intended, in consequence of the notice just given for Friday, to give notice of a motion for the production of certain papers previously to that day. He wished, in short, to put the House in possession of such information as would enable it to form a proper judgment on the question which would then be submitted to it.Mr. Tierney
45 rose to second the Address. He said, that eventful times had been lately witnessed, in which destructive principles had assumed new shapes, and menaced every thing valuable with ruin. He hoped such scenes would never be renewed. He could almost wish them obliterated from our history, if it were not that their remembrance might have a salutary influence on two sets of men—one of whom forgot their duty to their country, in the heated activity of party, and the other passively submitted to the development of principles at variance with all its interests. As to the Address which had just been offered to the House, he did not know what grounds of opposition there could be to it. The present times imposed on parliament a heavy responsibility. He was sure it was the wish of every honest man to see parliament take such steps as would tend to tranquillise the country. It was only his part to show that the Address advised such a mode of proceeding. It was peculiarly necessary in these times, when principles of rational duty and conduct had been so much laid aside, that parliament should not so descend from its high station, and be so forgetful of its dignity as to allow the session to terminate without attending to the wants, the interests and the business of the nation [hear! from all parts of the House]. He should not have indulged in those general observations, if
45Mr. James Browne
4746 concurred in many of the general observations expressed by the honourable mover and seconder of the Address, and agreed with them, that the Speech from the throne did not contain any topic on which there could be any material difference of opinion; but although what it contained was not likely to provoke discussion, yet he could not but remark upon what it had omitted. It was not the first time he had had to lament the ignorance which ministers showed of the real state of the country. When he looked to the state of agriculture, he would ask, could the noble lord opposite be really ignorant that the agricultural interests were in so wretched a condition, that scarcely any abatement would induce the cultivators of the land to go on with their labours? Knowing, as he did, their privations, their disappointments,
4746Mr. Curwen
65 contended, that the expla-
65Mr. Warre
l. rose to order. The right hon. gentleman had, since the last meeting of parliament, accepted a place of emolument under the Crown, by which his seat was vacated. He wished to know whether he had been re-elected? If the acceptance of a place worth 5,000l.Mr. Hume
 remarked, that it mattered not whether a member accepting office declined receiving any salary, or thought proper to give it away. The question was, was it an office of profit under government? If so, the member of course vacated his seat. He was of opinion, that the right hon. member had vacated his seat, by accepting the office of president of the Board of Control.Mr. Creevey
 observed, that if the learned member would explain his object, he would apologise if he had misunderstood him. He understood the learned member intended to offer some observations upon the notice of the noble lord. That, it appeared to him, would be contrary to the usual forms of the House. It was impossible that any observations could be made leading to a discussion, without going on to a termination of the question. If he mistook the learned member, he begged his pardon; but if he did not, he put it to him and to the House, whether he was not irregular in addressing the House on the notice of the noble lord?The Speaker
 who was satisfied that the learned member would excuse him for interruption, but nothing was so irregular as to offer remarks upon that which was only a notice of motion.The Speaker,
34 remarked, that if ministers had not seen the documents now moved for—if they had not entered into that investigation of them into which they ought to have entered, then in reality they could not know whether the examination of them might not be decisive of the illegality of the measure in question. If they had examined them, as they said they had, what need was there of a moment's previous notice? If they were not now possessed of them, it was
34Sir James Mackintosh
 said, that the information given to the House by the solicitor-general, differed so much from that given to it. by the noble lord opposite, that the House would find some difficulty in reconciling it. The noble lord said that the Queen's name had been erased from the liturgy after a full examination of all the necessary documents; whilst the solicitor-general, at the same moment that he confessed that they had consulted these documents, disdained to rest upon them, and left the matter to be defended by the order in council. The motion was not pressed by the learned mover, from any intention of anticipating the debate, or from any wish to prolong the discussion. The noble lord had therefore taken a wrong course in meeting it by the previous question. If the principle were acceded to, there might be no objection to some delay in the production of the necessary papers. His noble friend, too, might then be induced to postpone the motion of which he had given notice, to a more distant day, or he might, after considering the reasons urged in favour of such delay, find them unsatisfactory. He himself entertained not the smallest doubt, that if the motion were now acceded to, there would be no difficulty in obtaining all the documents in the course of a single morning.Mr. Scarlett
 had always understood, that the late sir James Pulteney, whilst secretary at war, had received no salary; but he had never understood, that on accepting that office, he had been excused from vacating his seat in consequence of it. The acceptance of the office vacated the scat quite as much as the acceptance of the salary.Lord Milton
 said, that as his noble friend, lord A. Hamilton, had fixed his motion for Friday, he wished to give notice, that he would, on Monday se'nnight, move a Resolution expressive of the opinion of the House on the conduct of ministers in the late proceedings against her Majesty.The Marquis of Tavistock
66 presented a similar petition from the inhabitants of Bridgewater, upon which he begged to offer a few observations. The petition would show the sentiments entertained by them of her majesty's innocence of the gross charges made against her. For himself, he was not influenced by any opinion either of her majesty's guilt or innocence. He disapproved of the whole proceeding, because he felt that the charges brought against her majesty were of a most vague and indefinite nature, and in opposition to the established laws of the country.—He disapproved of those proceedings, because they did not afford her majesty the same means of defence which were grant-
66Mr. Tynte
 said, that a petition had been presented, praying that House to institute an inquiry into the conspiracy against the Queen. He wished to learn from the noble lord opposite when he meant to institute that inquiry. The noble lord had said, during the last session, that if there was any conspiracy, it ought to be investigated, it ought to be probed to the bottom, in order that its nature, extent, and authors might be known. He (Mr. W.) would say, that a more foul and abominable conspiracy he had never heard of. The evidence produced against her majesty was proved to be all false and perjured. The accusations brought by his majesty's ministers had been supported by testimony which was proved to be perjured, bribed, procured by the most corrupt means and influence. The whole of the base and abominable proceeding was marked by bribery, perjury, and subornation. It was perfectly clear that the Milan commission was at the bottom of this foul and atrocious conspiracy.Mr. Western
 said, he would not be dragged prematurely, by large and high sounding phrases into a discussion of such an important question. He meant no personal disrespect to the honourable member; but, on a question so grave and so important, he would not make any statements until it should come under the judgment of the House fairly. If the hon. gentleman thought it proper that parliament should institute an inquiry of the kind alluded to, it was perfectly competent for him to move such an inquiry. He was in the recollection of the House, when he said, that in the last session, when a gallant general (Sir R. Ferguson) had moved for the production of documents to show the nature of the Milan commission, he (Lord C.) had complained of the choice of time for such a motion, when the conduct of the Queen herself was under investigation. He must really express his surprise that gentlemen who had on every occasion when the house met moved an address to his majesty for a prorogation, in order to extinguish all inquiry on the subject of the Queen, should now appear so anxious to move any question on the subject.Lord Castlereagh
68 said, it was true, that he had, last session made a motion on this subject, of which the noble lord had got rid by a mode peculiar to himself; that
68Sir R. Fergusson
 said, the gallant general had assumed that this was the proper time for entering upon such an inquiry. If he conceived so, let him make any motion he pleased upon the subject.Lord Castlereagh
69 said, that, when the infamous bill of Pains and Penalties was in the other House, and when the infamous evidence in support of it had been circulated through the country, he had taken upon himself to say, that the evidence was decisive of the existence of a conspiracy—he would not say by whom—against the honour and dignity of the Queen. The noble lord had then said, that if a conspiracy did exist, he wished most anxiously to have it brought to light. He now called upon the noble lord to put his most anxious wish into execution. Ministers owed it to themselves, to the Crown, and to the country, to institute an inquiry into this odious transaction. Be they guilty or not guilty, they were charged by the country with having conspired against the honour and character of her majesty; and they were bound to enter upon the inquiry, if they valued what remained of their character. The noble lord accused the Opposition side of the House, with having last year endeavoured to put a stop to the proceedings against her majesty. True, they did so, because they not only saw the iniquity of the measure, but the evils which it would bring upon the country. Therefore it was, that they called for a prorogation of parliament. But now they called for inquiry, for the purpose of punishing the guilty, even though they should be found to be the confidential ministers and advisers of the Crown. There was nothing more natural than that ministers should wish to keep themselves safe; but the hoxir for such an inquiry would come, and that he hoped and trusted very shortly. He was anxious, for the honour of his majesty, that a full inquiry should be gone into. That House was bound to speak strongly, to prove that there existed a mutual feeling between the House and the country, and to force and drag for-
69Mr. Bennet
 said, it was for those honourable members who alleged that a conspiracy existed to prove it. It was rather too much to call upon those who were not aware of any such conspiracy to prove its existence.Lord Castlereagh,
 asked the noble lord, whether the conspiracy, or whatever it was called, by which the evidence was collected, did not cost money? and if so, whether that expense was to be brought under the notice of parliament?Sir R. Fergusson
 said, he was not aware of any disposition on the part of the House to treat the petitions of any class of his majesty's subjects with indifference or neglect; but the hon. member had attributed to him a speech which it might have been desirable that he should make, but which he nevertheless had not made. All that he recollected to have said on the subject was, that he was not bound to answer any question when he considered that it might be inconvenient to the public service.Lord Castlereagh
75 observed, that he had anticipated that which had now taken place. The hon. member did indeed present the petition of 400 of the inhabitants of Devizes, but he had not thought proper to say one word in support of it. Although the hon. member and his hon. colleague (Mr. Pearce) were members for the town of Devizes, and therefore had no objection to present this petition; yet, in point of fact, those who subscribed it had no right to look for any support from either of them. In common parlance, the two hon. gentlemen, for whom he personally entertained great respect, were called members for Devizes; but in reality were the representatives only of some twenty or thirty aldermen in that borough. This was a very happy illustration of what had, the night before, fallen from the noble lord (Castlereagh,) as to his hopes of enjoying the confidence of the House and of the country. The confidence of the House, indeed, the noble lord was pretty sure of possessing, just as he was sure of possessing the confidence of the aldermen at Devizes: but was he
75Mr. Robert Gordon
76 observed, that as an example of the great variety of opinion which existed on this painful subject, they were told, that the view taken by the 400 petitioners differed from that of the mayor, and a few, he believed twelve, aldermen. This was undoubtedly a very fair specimen of the manner in which the people were represented, and their sentiments expressed in that House. He trusted, however, that the country was to be at length tranquillized; and that, by a compliance with the prayer of so many petitions, parliament would find leisure to apply its attention to more important subjects. He was gratified to hear from the noble lord an explanation of what was before somewhat ambiguous, and that ministers no longer contemplated
76Sir Francis Burdett
77 did not rise to make any general observations on what had fallen from the hon. baronet; but lest it might be supposed, from the tone and temper assumed by the hon. baronet, that his majesty's government had altered or abandoned some intention which they might have entertained in the period intervening between the commencement of the proceedings and the giving up of the bill, he could assure the hon. baronet, that no such alteration had taken place.
77Lord Castlereagh
 begged pardon for setting the hon. gentleman right upon one point. He had not said a syllable that in the slightest degree reflected either on him or his constituents. With respect to the question he had put to the noble lord, he did not consider the answer that had been given to it as satisfactory. From what the noble lord said, it appeared that ministers now continued in the "position of determination" which they had formed previously to the commencement of those proceedings. But he conceived it to be very important for the House and the country to know, and to know distinctly, whether they were to consider that no further criminatory proceedings would be resorted to against the queen.Sir F. Burdett
78 said, that when the hon. baronet, had before put this question, he expressed himself as if the government were now occupied in considering some proceeding which they had not contemplated previously to the withdrawing of the bill. In answer, he had distinctly stated to the House, that the moment the bill was withdrawn, government ceased
78Lord Castlereagh
 said, that punishment was not to be presumed or supposed, because his majesty was not advised by his ministers to alter that arrangement which his majesty, in council, had thought fitting to have carried into effect before the proceeding was instituted.Lord Castlereagh
79 rose to present a petition from the inhabitants of Ilchester, in which the petitioners expressed their detestation of the measures that had been adopted towards her majesty, and prayed that a provision suitable to her rank might be afforded her, and that she should be restored to her just rights and immunities. He was in the recollection of the House, and they would be able to judge of the correctness of the statement he was about to make. The noble lord, in answer to a question put to him by a right hon. friend of his, relative to the adjournments that took place during the last session, had said, that the consideration of the question would be postponed to a future day, in order to see whether the proceedings would arrive at such a conclusion, in the House of Lords, as to occasion the measure then in progress to be brought down to this House; and that, if it took a different turn, parliament would meet to make a provision for her majesty. (Lord
79Dr. Lushington
80 observed, that if the learned gentleman meant to say, that he had intimated, that, in the event of the bill not passing the other House of Parliament, the House of Commons should meet for the purpose of granting a provision to her majesty, he must declare that he never said the House should so meet; and that he could not have said so, because he never had any such impression on his mind. He thought the learned gentleman must recollect what passed on that occasion; and if he did, he would find that it did not bear him out in his statement. He had said, that if the bill came down from the other House, he would then enforce the call; but if it did not, he considered that step unnecessary. Now it was evident they could not have proceeded to consider of a provision for the Queen, without entering into all the collateral topics that were connected with the subject; and that could never have been done without an enforcement of the call. The observation of a noble lord on that occasion, was, that there would be,
80Lord Castlereagh
8281 said, he did not see the force of the reasons which the noble lord had adduced, with respect to what his learned friend had stated to have occurred on a former occasion. The noble lord might assert that he had no intention of stating the proposition that the House was to meet in order to provide for her majesty, and yet he might, unawares, have thrown out such a statement. When it was so strongly stated, as matter of recollection, that the words were used, it was more fair to suppose that something of the kind was said, than that no expression of that description occurred. The noble lord declared his statement to have been, that if the bill did not come down, the call of the House was not to be enforced; but if it did, that then the call would be enforced; and he argued that it would be impossible to discuss the subject of the intended provision, and the other topics connected with it, unless there was a call of the House. But it was very singular that they were now rapidly proceeding towards the consideration of the necessary provision for her majesty, and yet no call of the House had taken place. There was, it was true, a very full attendance of members, and doubtless many good reasons could be assigned for it. Notwithstanding what the noble lord had said, he would state most positively, that the impression on his mind was precisely the same as that which his learned friend appeared to have imbibed. The noble lord had said, that if the bill went on, there should be a call of the House; but if the bill did not proceed, it was consented to, by all parties, that the call should not take place for the purpose of adopting measures respecting the provision for her majesty. Now, he (lord F.) complained, that the call was not enforced for the purpose of considering those other matters to which the noble lord had re-
8281Lord Folkestone
 felt a strong conviction of his own correctness. He might be mistaken; but he hoped when the noble lord next made any statement on a subject of so important a nature, both to his majesty's government and the country, he would express himself in plain and intelligible language. This would be extremely convenient to honourable members, many of whom had come out of the country, eutertaining precisely the same opinion that he did.Dr. Lushington
858483 rose, to present a similar petition from the inhabitants of the borough of Sudbury. He observed, that it prayed, that her majesty might be restored to the enjoyment of all her lawful rights and privileges; and, what was not common in these days, the language in which it was couched was not only respectful to both Houses of parliament, but also to the sovereign. He wished to take that opportunity of expressing his opinion on the subject of the petition, which his constituents had called upon him to support. This was a time when every man who valued the constitution should speak out. No man could deplore more than he did, the introduction of the bill of Pains and Penalties; and he deplored it because he firmly believed that it was not justified by any state necessity, nor could tend to any good purpose. He could not but congratulate the Mouse and the country on the declaration of the noble lord opposite, that there would be no further proceedings instituted against her majesty. He was one of those who de-
858483Mr. Alderman Heygate
9089 claimed the indulgence of the House while he vindicated himself from the attack of the hon. gentleman. He was perfectly surprised at the manner in which his observations had been met. Any body who had heard them and had not heard his own observations, would naturally have thought that he had defended the bill of Pains and Penalties, and justified the original rejection of the Queen's name from the Liturgy. Equally surprised was he to hear a charge of having made an unmanly attack upon an unfortunate and illus-
9089Mr. Alderman Heygate
 explained, that what he had said was this—that not having the letter by him at the moment, he could not quote the passages he alluded to with accuracy from recollection.Mr. Alderman Heygate
96 observed, that with respect to most of the topics to which the address referred, there would be various opportunities of discussing them. There was one, however, of so urgent a nature, and on which a step might suddenly be taken, so irremediable as to place it entirely out of the power of that House, that he felt it to be impossible, consistently with his sense of duty, to allow it to pass without a few observations. That topic was the present state of the affairs of Naples, and of the conferences with reference to that state, which were supposed to be going on among the great sovereigns of Europe. He knew, that in touching on this subject, he was touching on a delicate matter, because it was one which might be considered in a course of negociation, and he should therefore treat it accordingly. He certainly was not one of those who were of opinion, that no circumstances could occur in any country affecting its internal condition and the principles on which its government was to be carried on, which would justify the interference of any foreign power. At the same time he must say, that from all he had heard of the transactions in Naples, and of the principles on which those transactions had been founded, there was not a shadow of ground or reason justifying the interference of foreign powers on that occasion. There had been no violent acts committed; there had been no doctrines avowed dangerous to the peace of the neighbouring nations, or subversive of the first principles of civilized society. But, what he particularly rose for was, to make a remark or two on the statement in the Speech from the throne, and in the speech of the noble lord opposite on this interesting subject. As far as he could understand those statements, they professed the observance of a strict neutrality by the
96The Hon. William Lamb
data97 observed, that as it was impossible to dispatch a subject so interesting and important in a few sentences, it would, in his opinion, be more expedient to postpone its consideration until an opportunity' should be afforded for discussing it in parliament in the ample manner which it deserved. The general reasoning of the hon. gentleman was undoubtedly fair, but it did not appear to him to be strictly applicable to the line of policy which this country was, in the present instance, called upon to adopt. He begged not to be understood as giving any opinion upon the present subject; but it must be evident to the hon. gentleman, and to the House, tha£ other powers might entertain apprehensions with respect to
data97Lord Castlereagh
 professed himself unable to give any precise answer to the question of the hon. gentleman. It could not be expected of any member of his majesty's government, in the discharge of his public duty, to communicate any of the circumstances that might have reached him on such an occasion; while the transaction to which those circumstances related was still pending. If the hon. member would, at a subsequent period, move for any information which he might wish for as to the course pursued by this country in the transaction, there could be no difficulty in producing it; but he would himself see, that any communication respecting the larger European question would be attended with more difficulty. This, however, he had no hesitation in distinctly declaring, that the course which had been pursued by this country on the subject, in no way rendered it a party to the proceedings, whatever they might be of the three great powers assembled at Laybach. Although there had certainly been no difficulty on the part of the English admiral on the station, to afford the king of Naples every possible facility for his voyage from Naples to Leghorn—yet it ought not to be inferred from that interference, that England had any participation either in the invitation of his majesty, the king of Naples, to Laybach, or in any other part of the policy of the three great powers on the subject. It was unquestionably a matter of great delicacy, and one on which he could not be called on prematurely, to disclose the policy by which the powers in question were actuated.Lord Castlereagh
101 declared his impossibility of entering into all the details of this subject, even were he prepared himself to feel all the animation with which the gallant general appeared invariably to contemplate every possible species of revolution. He denied, however, that a reluctance to acknowledge a revolution suddenly effected in any country was a just ground of hostility. Without entering into particulars, he would merely observe, that the English government were required to recognise new forms and changes, suddenly brought about under very mysterious circumstances, and principally by one sect. It seemed tolerably evident, that the object of that sect was not confined to Naples, but extended itself to the subversion of all the existing governments in Italy, and the union of the whole into one state. He by no means wished to declare, that such a plan demanded, or would justify, the interference of neighbouring powers. That must be a subject of much deliberation and investigation on the part of those powers, and it was a problem which, he trusted, we should not undertake to solve. He positively denied, however, that we had done any thing which the Neapolitan government were justified in considering as an act of hostility: and he could assure the gallant general that we had not done any thing which the Neapolitan government so considered. The intercourse between the two countries continued on the same footing as before the late changes. The ministers at both courts communicated as usual, and carried on the ordinary routine of diplomatic intercourse. But he protested
101Lord Castlereagh
 —Certainly not.Lord Castlereagh
 replied, that in the early period after the contraction of that loan, there had been some payments upon it; but for a long course of years no payment had taken place; and although some communications had recently been interchanged on the subject, they were not of a nature to hold out any great prospect of a speedy repayment.Lord Castlereagh
102 was sure the question of Naples would not be treated as one of delicacy by Austria. If that House exhibited so much delicacy upon it, Naples might be over-run and annihilated before any beneficial interference could be interposed. Our ancestors would not have shown much delicacy under such circum-
102Sir Robert Heron
 said, that he had not heard of any such application.Lord Castlereagh
 replied, that it was impossible for him to answer at present. The nature of these reductions would appear when the Army Estimates should be laid on the table.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 had no objection to the production of the documents now moved for, although at the same time he saw no necessity for the motion, as facts of a similar kind were often stated in debate, and assumed as true, without any official authentication. His opposition to the motion of the learned gentleman, on a former occasion, had proceeded from the unusual, and, as he conceived, not very prudent moment at which it was brought, forward.Lord Castlereagh
 begged to call to the recollection of the noble lord the grounds on which, during the last session, the exclusion of her majesty's name from the Liturgy was defended by ministers. Would they, it was asked, place in the Liturgy the name of a person over whom heavy charges were pending, and which name, in the event of guilt being established, they would be bound to erase? If then, such exclusion was continued, he was forced to conclude that ministers took it for granted, that those heavy charges had been substantiated against her majesty.Lord John Russell
74 said, that he had a petition to present from the borough of Great Grimsby, in the county of Lincoln. What had fallen the night before from the noble lord had led, certainly, to an inference in his mind, that it was not the intention of his majesty's government to take any further steps against the Queen. He understood the noble lord to say, that but one proposition would be submitted relative to the Queen, and. that this would be on the subject of the income to be provided for her. All he should say, therefore, at present, on this point was, that his majesty's ministers would have better consulted their duty, if, instead of abruptly dismissing parliament, they had, by proposing an immediate provision, and candidly disclaiming any intention to renew the prosecution, rendered the numerous meetings which had since taken place, and the petitions which were now pouring in upon them, unnecessary. This remark, however, he made on the presumption that no further proceedings were meditated; but it was a presumption in which he was strongly fortified by the expression of the noble lord. With respect to the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy, he must observe, that the principle on which he always understood it to have been originally excluded, was the existence of charges, an inquiry into which might afterwards render it necessary to remove it. His majesty's ministers were now reduced to the alternative of allowing that the charges had not been proved, or maintaining that the defence had failed. They had not maintained the latter proposition; and he could not, therefore, conceive what fair objection could be now urged to the insertion of her majesty's name. He should now present the petition, which prayed, that a royal residence might be assigned to the Queen, and
74Mr. Tennyson
104 in rising to submit the motion of which he had given notice yesterday, observed, that as a noble lord had given notice of a motion which was unquestionably the most important that had been brought under the consideration of parliament since the year 1789, it was impossible for any gentleman to go into the examination of that question until the necessary preliminary information had been given to the House. Were he to state, as an historical fact, that for three centuries the name of a queen consort had in no instance but one, that of the consort of George 1. been omitted in the Liturgy, he had no doubt that he should get credit for having stated the fact correctly; but he apprehended that, in parliamentary practice, such an important question ought not to be decided without a regular authentication of the facts by which the decision of the House was to be regulated. When he first proposed to move for certain papers on this subject, it had been supposed by the right hon. the chancellor for the duchyr of Lancaster, that he intended to move for a whole magazine of prayer-books. This however, was not the case. From the reign of James I. down to the present time, there were only seven instances in which he wished to know what the practice had been; and therefore the first branch of his motion would only require that seven short collects should be extracted. The two other documents which
104Mr. Wetherell,
70 presented a similar petition from the inhabitants of Kingston-upon-Hull. The hon. member said, he would not, after what had been already said, offer a single observation upon this petition, were it not that those persons who
70Mr. Sykes
 replied, that as the law at present stood, there was no obstacle to the export of arms to any part of Europe—except Spain. Power was given by law to prohibit the export of arms by an order in council; but that power had been exercised only with reference to Spain. The export of arms to Naples was therefore perfectly free.Mr. F. Robinson
 then brought up the report. After it had been read a second time, and on the question for agreeing to it,Mr. Bankes
 appeared at the bar, with the report of the Address on the king's Speech. On the motion that it be brought up,Mr. G. Bankes
95 in continuation, contended that the hon. alderman could not be surprised at being charged with unmanliness, when he came forward with charges against the Queen, founded on a document, which, when he was called upon to produce, he said he had not in his possession, and the contents of which he had forgotten. Instead of producing the passages in the letter on which he had founded his charge, the hon. alderman had quoted certain passages from answers which had been given by her majesty to the addresses presented to her. He would be the last man to say, that many of those answers were not highly improper, or that they did not reflect great disgrace on those by whom her majesty had been advised to present them. At the same time, the unfortunate and anomalous situation of her majesty—the persecution she had suffered—the obloquy that had been heaped upon her by a venal press, all these were circumstances which ought to be taken into account, in estimating the course which she had pursued. It was, in his opinion, not very manly, harshly to condemn her majesty under such circumstances. It was too much like the conduct of those Spanish Inquisitors, who, having stretched their victim on the rack, converted the ravings of pain into additional matter of accusation. This mode of conduct he could not think manly or English. Undoubtedly, he thought with the hon. alderman, that many passages in the answers of her majesty to the addresses that had been presented to her were extremely reprehensible, and that they reflected great disgrace on the good sense and education of those who had advised her majesty to make them. But this he would say, that ill as he thought of those who had advised her majesty to make those answers, he thought the blame which those persons had justly incurred, vanished into air, compared with the blame to which those persons were liable who had advised his majesty to give the answers which he had given, to addresses from certain bodies of the people. The hon. alderman must recollect some of these; and especially one to an address which the hon. alderman,
95Lord Nugent,
94 begged to say a word on what had fallen from the honourable alderman, in the elaborate vindication which he had entered into of himself, as to what he had been charged with having said in his original speech. In the lion, alderman's first speech, he had thought fit to charge her majesty with having been guilty of a crime in her letter to the king, for which any other subject would have been amenable to the law. When, however, the hon. alderman was called upon to point out the passages in which that charge was founded, he failed to produce them, and professed, that he had forgotten them. He now again called
94Lord Nugent
 said, the noble lord had informed the House, that all proceedings against her majesty had ceased, and that it was not the intention of his majesty's government to institute any further proceedings in the way of trial. Was he to understand, not only that no further trial would be instituted, but that nothing in the nature of punishment would be continued, as if the trial had proceeded and terminated in a conviction?Mr. Brougham
7372 of Wiltshire, said, he was
7372Mr. Benett,
 said, he held in his hand a petition from the borough of Cocker-mouth, which was most respectably signed, by a great proportion of the inhabitants of that town. The petitioners complained of the injustice done to her majesty in striking her name out of the Liturgy, before any trial had been instituted against her. They went on to state, that they had seen with sorrow and indignation the perjury and prevarication used in the witnesses against her majesty. They prayed that her majesty's name might be restored to the Liturgy; and also that the House would exert its influence in advising his majesty to dismiss from his councils his present ministers; men who, for the last twenty years, had declined practising that economy which was recommended from time to time by the Crown. He felt himself bound to support this petition. He had for years been listening to the tales and slanders which had been circulated against her majesty, and what was the result? They had heard the evidence brought forward against her majesty—evidence upon which, as a juryman, he, upon his oath, would have acquitted her. He pledged himself, that he, for one, would use every effort in his power to restore to her majesty those rights and privileges which belonged to her as Queen Consort. He hoped ministers would retrace their steps, and render to her majesty that justice to which she was entitled. This was the only means by which the peace of the country could be restored.Mr. Curwen
71 said, he held in his hands a petition from the inhabitants of Stockton, in the county of Durham, most numerously and respectably signed, deprecating the late odious and uncalled for proceedings against her majesty, and praying the interference of that House to have her restored to all her just and constitutional rights. In availing himself of this opportunity for submitting a few observations on the subject, he must remark, in the first place, that it would be more to the honour of the House, and would tend more to sustain its character and dignity, if they were to pay a greater degree of attention to the sentiments and prayers of the people. The present was a time when the House was labouring under the just reproach of but ill representing the sense of the country. He could not easily understand, therefore, with what propriety it could be made matter of charge against any individual member, that he had given expression to the feelings and opinions of his constituents. The petitioners in this instance complained, after professions of their own loyalty and attachment to the constitution, of a class of persons calling themselves exclusive loyalists, (No, no; from a member on the ministerial side of the House.) If the hon. member who thus interrupted him could show that he was stating what was not the fact, he should be ready to confess his error; but if he was accurately describing the contents of this petition, he was not to be deterred by such cries from the open and fearless discharge of his duty. He should, therefore, now repeat, that the petitioners complained of a class of persons arrogating to themselves the merit of exclusive loyalty, and accusing their fellow-countrymen of hostility to the throne, on no other ground than their hostility to his majesty's ministers. Amongst the many amusing exhibitions
71Mr. Lambton
 denied that he had put into the noble lord's mouth any sentiments which he had not uttered, or that he had any intention of placing the noble lord in a wrong light before the country. His allusion, in the first instance, was to the noble lord's answer that evening to the observations of his hon. friend the member for Essex. The expression relative to the British lion he did not ascribe to the noble lord; he had met with it in a part of the Press which was very zealous and active in the service of his majesty's ministers.Mr. Lambton
in toto939291 said, he felt extreme reluctance in coming forward on this occasion. He cordially agreed in the wish expressed by an hon. member early ill the evening, that something might be done which would bury in oblivion this unfortunate question. The hon. alderman appeared to concur in this wish; but he was sorry to find that the expression of his sentiments was rather at variance with the promotion of that salutary conclusion which was on so many accounts desirable. The hon. alderman had read to the House several objectionable passages which her majesty had been so ill advised as to insert in her answers to addresses. It was, he feared, but too true that much objectionable matter would be found on both
in toto939291Mr. Lockhart
 said, that, as one of the members for the town of Devizes, he had communicated with some of the petitioners; and when they had desired him to support the prayer of their petition, he had told them frankly, that he had an opinion as well as themselves upon the subject of it, and that he could not give it his support. The 400 persons whom the hon. gentleman had described as of so much consequence at Devizes as fairly to express the general sense entertained there, were not persons of weight or consequence, but had been selected with great pains, and without reference to their qualifications. An address, containing very different sentiments, had been agreed to by those who possessed the intelligence and respectability of the town.Mr. Pearse
67 presented a petition from, the inhabitants of Northallerton, complaining of the late proceeding against her majesty, which they observed had its origin in a foul and malignant conspiracy. They prayed the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy, that a provision suitable to her rank as Queen Consort should be made for her, and that an immediate inquiry should be entered into, as to the origin of the Milan commission,
67Mr. Pearse
98 remarked, that the noble lord had now repeated those observations which he had made in his speech yesterday, and which were strongly calculated to arrest attention and to excite alarm. He would take the opportunity, before he sat down, of asking the noble lord a question on the subject of Naples, to which the noble lord would of course give or withhold an answer, as he should think proper. A great deal of what had fallen from the hon. gentleman near him, appeared to him to be extremely worthy of the noble lord's consideration. It was with great regret he heard the noble lord hold it out as a probability, that any consideration of safety to the Austrian dominions, as that subject might be viewed by the Austrian government, might justly operate to render the gallant, noble, and justifiable effort of the Neapolitan people to assert their independence, the means of exposing them to the aggressions of foreign powers. With respect to the question that he wished to ask the noble lord, he felt himself especially justified in putting it; because some of his majesty's ships of war had been employed on a service connected and interwoven with the recent transactions in the kingdom of Naples: he meant in transporting the king of Naples to Leghorn. He therefore begged to ask the noble lord if he could foresee the probable time when he would be able to furnish the House with information, either in the shape of documents or otherwise, on this
98Mr. Warre
88de facto87de facto86 said, he was extremely sorry the lion, member had made a sort of general charge of treason—for he thought it was no less—against the Queen, for having uttered the sentiments contained in the letter to his majesty. He wished the hon. member had confined himself. to a statement of specific facts, and particular circumstances. He held that letter in his hand, and he called on the hon. member to point out any one passage that could justify the assertion he had advanced, much less that could warrant him in directing such an attack on an individual who was not, and who could not, be present to defend herself. The hon. member's conduct, in this instance, was like that of ministers on all occasions. The proceeding he had adopted was most ungenerous, most unmanly, most unfair; and in the face of the House, he protested against it. Why should the hon. member pursue the plan of the noble lord opposite, and endeavour, by a side-wind, to do that which he could not effect in a direct manner? If he wished to censure her majesty, or any of her advisers, he would have an opportunity of doing it plainly and openly; but the mode which he had been pleased to adopt was most unfair. He was as much disposed to support the authority of that House and the dignity of the throne as any man, but yet he would say, that no sentiment contained in the letter of the 7th of August, to which the Queen had put her name, appeared to his feeling to be at all improper [Hear, hear! from the ministerial benches]. Those who could lay their hands upon their hearts and applaud themselves for the conduct they had observed towards a deserted and defenceless woman, were of course extremely glad to receive any little assistance which gentlemen at either side of the House might be inclined to bestow on them. Therefore it was, that they so loudly cheered the hon. member who had just sat down; and the present cheers, though conveying a different meaning, formed a part of the same system. But let those who condemned the Queen place themselves in the situation in which she stood when that letter was written. Was there a man in that House so mean,
88de facto87de facto86Mr. Hume
 said, he should have supposed that ministers, before they put the passage in question into his majesty's mouth, would have the estimates before them, otherwise they had made his majesty state that, of the truth of which they could not be assured.Mr. Hume
 adverting to the paragraph which related to the reductions said to have been made in the military establishment of the country, said, he presumed that his majesty's ministers were prepared to say in what branches, and to what extent, those reductions had taken place.Mr. Hume,
 observed, that that was no answer to his question. Had any such application as that which he had described been made?Mr. Hume
 although he rather differed from his hon. friend on the question of the propriety of interference on the part of this country, thought that we ought to take every opportunity of showing our good will towards the Neapolitans. It had been stated to him, that an application had been made to our government, to know if permission would be granted to export to Naples a supply of arms, for the manufacture of which a commission had been received in this country. If such an application had been made and refused, it would show, that our government favoured the objects of Austria, Russia, and Prussia, rather than the struggle of the Neapolitans for independence. He should be very sorry if such a disposition had manifested itself and he requested to know how the fact stood.Mr. Hume,
 presented petitions from Perth, Aberdeen, Annan, and Banff, praying for the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy, and that a suitable income and residence might be afforded her. He had no hesitation in stating, that if Scotland had been adequately and fairly represented—if it had the benefit of that reform in the state of the representation, the necessity of which was felt by the whole empire, and which he fondly anticipated, there would not have been a single petition from that class now called the exclusive loyalists of the country.Mr. Hume
 said, he held in his hand a petition signed by 400 persons, inhabitants of Devizes. It complained of the exclusion of her majesty's name from the Liturgy, the corrupt offer which had been made to her to induce her to remain abroad, the refusal of every advantage to enable her to make a full defence, and the production of a mass of false evidence against her. It prayed that the House would adopt measures for restoring her to the full and and unqualified enjoyment of all her rights and privileges, as the only means of averting consequences detrimental to the best interests, and dangerous to the tranquillity of the country.Mr. Estcourt
 observed, in answer to what had fallen from the hon. baronet, that he was elected, not by 12, but by 36 persons (a laugh.) Undoubtedly, he was elected to represent the borough of Devizes, by that number of individuals; but his apprehension was, that when he was sent to the House of Commons, he was one of the representatives of the whole nation, and was called on to take care, not merely of the interests of his constituents but of the empire at large. A more loyal, independent, or respectable body of men did not exist, than the corporation of Devizes; and the hon. baronet was mistaken if he supposed that any kind of improper inducement was held out to the members of that corporation to influence them to pursue a course contrary to their honest conviction, when the election of members to serve them in parliament took place. It was not true that the corporation of Devizes was biassed by any unworthy feeling; and it was equally untrue, that the members for that borough, when they came into the House of Commons, were influenced by any feeling but an honest desire to promote the good of the empire at large.Mr. Estcourt
 then gave notice, that he would shortly submit to the House a motion for papers explanatory of the subject.Mr. James
 adverted to the Austrian loan, and requested to know if there was any prospect of its being repaid.Mr. James
 wished to ask the noble lord, whether the non-recognition of the new Neapolitan minister was accompanied by any circumstances hostile to the new constitutional government of Naples?Sir R. Wilson
10099 said, he had been given to understand that a Neapolitan of high rank and character had been sent to the English court by the constitutional government recently established in Naples; but that having tendered his credentials, he was, though received with the noble lord's usual urbanity, not recognised in his character of envoy; on the ground that it was impossible for the British government to recognise any act of the new government at Naples, until the allied powers had come to some decision on the negotiation then carrying on at Troppau, and since at Laybach. On that ground, after remaining three weeks here, he understood that the individual in question
10099Sir Robert Wilson
 thought, that as ministers took care to publish all the loyal addresses, as they were called, and the loyal addresses only, in the gazette, the petitioners to Parliament in favour of her majesty were entitled to have their petitions printed. He therefore moved, that the said petitions be printed.Sir Robert Wilson
 presented two petitions, condemning the conduct of ministers in the proceedings against the Queen, and praying, that her name might forthwith be restored to the Liturgy, One of them was from the inhabitants of Axminster; the other from the inhabitants of Colyton.Sir T. Acland
 presented a petition from the inhabitants of Truro, in Cornwall, complaining of the late proceeding by Bill of Pains and Penalties against their beloved and gracious Queen. They prayed the House to use its influence in restoring her majesty's name to the Liturgy, and in re-instating her in all the constitutional rights and privileges which belonged to her as Queen Consort of these realms; they also prayed an inquiry into the conspiracy by which her majesty had been accused; and expressed a hope that parliament would exert itself to prevent a recurrence of those disgraceful proceedings against her, by which the country had so long been agitated.Sir W. Lemon
 presented three petitions—one from the magistrates and town council of Culross, the second from Burntisland, and the third from Kinghorn. One of the petitions stated, that all the evils of the country—our agricultural and commercial distresses, were owing to his majesty's ministers; and, therefore, prayed the House to withdraw its confidence and support from them. He heartily hoped, that the House might comply with this petition. All the petitions declared their abhorrence of the prosecutions against the Queen, and prayed for the restoration of her name to the Liturgy, and to all her rights as Queen consort.Sir Ronald Fergusson
124 said, he held in his hand some additional commentaries on the assertion of the noble lord opposite, that he was in possession of the confidence of the country. The first was a petition from the parish of St. George, Hanover-square. The mock loyalists had endeavoured to get up a mock-loyal petition in the same parish, and in ten days they had got 415 names. The petition which he held in his hand had not been ready for signature more than ten hours, and it had got as many names. If the subject did not require that it should be presented that night, it would have been signed by nearly as many thousands. It prayed for attention to the distresses of the country, for the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy, and also for a reform in the representation. The second petition was from the bookbinders of London and Westminster. It prayed for the same objects. The third was from Langport, praying for the dismissal of ministers, and for the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy, it was signed by 1,000 names. The fourth was from Sidmouth, and signed by 450 individuals. No one could object to the loyalty of the people of Sidmouth, who, from unaccountable attachment to ministers, had refused to petition against them in the case of the Manchester business. A mock loyal address from this place had not so many names, although applications had been made for ten miles round. He had been entreated by the petitioners to urge the necessity of taking the prayers of the petitions into serious consideration. It would be a failure of courtesy to the noble lord, whose motion was fixed for that night, if he were to offer any observations now, upon the subject of the Liturgy. He must say, however, that the member for Guilford had taken a very erroneous view of the question, when he had said that he viewed it only as a legal question. If the exclusion of her majesty's name could be established as legally right, still the question would recur as a question of state necessity. Would it be endured that her majesty's name should be struck out of the Liturgy, upon evidence which had not made good the charge against her majesty, to the minds of those who had been trying the question? There was no inconsistency in connecting the two subjects, of the restoration of her majesty's rights and the reform of that House. If there had been an actual responsibility of ministers, they
124Mr. Hobhouse
125 said, he had never supposed the learned gentleman to be an idiot. He was the last man in the world
125Mr. Hobhouse
 presented two petitions, of a similar nature: the first, from the inhabitants of Reading, signed by 1,300 persons: the second, from the inhabitants of Tilehurst, tithing of Theale, and its vicinity. The hon. member begged leave to say, that the petitioners were devotedly attached to the constitution, and were most anxious to support the honour and dignity of the Crown. They had seen, with regret, the late proceedings against the Queen, carried on against the advice and recommendation of parliament—they had seen the charges against her majesty supported by the foulest and most corrupt perjury,—they had seen that the witnesses brought forward against her majesty were discharged servants, who had been bribed to give testimony against her. This was nothing less than corrupting the source of justice. The petitioners most solemnly prayed the House of Commons to withdraw their support from those ministers, who had, for such a length of time, abused the power entrusted to them,—that a stop should be put to any attempt to renew the proceedings against the Queen,—that the House of Commons would husband with strict economy the resources of the nation; and that every exertion should be made to inquire into, and alleviate, the distresses under which the country at present laboured. They prayed also, that every effort should be made to correct the abuses which existed in the representation of the people in parliament. He begged to remind the House of an observation which had been long since made, that unless a reform took place in parliament, no ministers could possibly manage the affairs of the country with honour to themselves, or advantage to the people, however well inclined they might be to do so.Mr. Fyshe Palmer
131 rose to present the petition of the freeholders of the county of Bedford. It was, he said, agreed to at the first meeting held of that county for the last twenty-live years; and one more numerous, more respectable, more temperate, more loyal, and in every respect better conducted, had never been held in any county. It was conducted throughout in the true spirit of the constitution, and did honour to the county. The petition was signed by upwards of 2,400 freeholders and other respectable individuals. They complained, in very warm terms, of the treatment of the Queen; they reprobated the proceedings carried on against her majesty, from the beginning to the end; they were jealous of them, because they saw, that they shook the country and interrupted the public peace. Perhaps it might suit ministers to consider the Bedfordshire and other county meetings as a farce. It might suit men to apply that term to county meetings, who durst not themselves meet before the public, but who were obliged to skulk into holes and corners, from which they issued libels against the people of England. This was not the treatment which Englishmen deserved. Instead of having
131The Marquis of Tavistock
132 presented a petition from Rochester, signed by 2,500 persons. The petitioners, he observed, were sincerely attached to the king and to the genuine principles of the constitution; and had, in the exercise of an undoubted right, felt it to be their duty to express their disapprobation of the measures pursued by his majesty's ministers. They called on the House to use its influence in procuring the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy; they prayed, that it would institute a rigid inquiry into the recent proceedings against the Queen; and they besought the House no longer to place confidence in those ministers who had insulted their king and degraded their country. They also called on the House to inquire into the distressed state of the empire; occasioned as it was, by the conduct adopted by ministers—by their boundless profusion and extravagance, their opposition to the correction of abuses, and their abridgment of the rights of the people. While such men were in power, the petitioners conceived, that the prerogatives of the King, the rights of the Queen, and the liberties of the People were in danger. He entirely and sincerely—not at all as a party man, but from honest conviction—concurred in those sentiments. He did not wish to embarrass this or any government, when it was properly conducted; but when he saw proceedings instituted which were calculated to degrade the country in the eyes of the world, and thereby to lessen its consequence in the estimation of foreign states, it was, he conceived, high time that a change should be effected. At such a time as this, it was right that gentlemen should speak their sentiments freely, and not smother them under the veil of delicacy. he had also to present a second peti-
132Mr. Bernal
 presented a similar petition from the county of Hants. He stated, that it was agreed to at a county meeting, which was most respectably attended, and that it was signed by 8,000 freeholders; who, while they opposed the unwise and dangerous acts of the present administration, were as much attached to the soundest principles of religion and loyalty as any men in the kingdom.Mr. Jervoise
 said, he could not support the sentiments contained in the petition presented by his hon. colleague, and felt himself called on, fn justice to the rank and property of the county of Hants, to declare, that many of the most wealthy and respectable freeholders were not present at that meeting.Mr. Fleming
 said, that the right hon. gentleman had undoubtedly misrepresented the Hampshire meeting.Mr. Baring
136 said, it appeared to him; that the right hon. gentleman must have meant that meeting or none, and he felt himself called on to vindicate the character of the meeting from the injurious assertion which, it seemed, had been cast on it by other persons. He would not say one word about the expression made use of by a noble lord, in another place. He respected the noble person, and was perfectly sensible of the great obligations which the country owed to him. He never heard his name mentioned, or reflected on his character, without experiencing feelings of pride and satisfaction. He would not, therefore, censure him for any unguarded expression, utter-
136Mr. Baring
 was sorry that any thing he should have said on the occasion in question was provoking. He thought the meeting was convened for public discussion, and what he had said he believed to have been perfectly fair.Mr. Fleming
137 presented a petition from the city of Chester, which the noble lord
137Lord Belgrave
158157156 in rising to reply to the speech with which the noble lord had introduced his motion, begged to say, in the first place, that it contained one sentiment with which he entirely concurred, That sentiment, the noble lord had expressed in plain terms, in the beginning of his speech, although he had thought proper to qualify it towards the conclusion: it was, that his Majesty's ministers, and they alone, ought in this case to be the responsible persons. The noble lord had intimated to the House, that ministers, in the advice which they gave to the Crown, had been actuated by motives which did not leave them the exercise of their own judgment. Whatever might have induced the noble lord to make the supposition, he (Mr. Robinson) could not consent to take any advantage from such an admission; for the advice was given by his majesty's ministers, and by the legality and expediency of that advice they were ready to stand or fall. When he considered the language in which the noble lord had characterized this act—when he heard it called an illegal proceeding—an insult to the sovereign—an injury and a disgrace to the country, and a measure for which the noble lord had no milder epithet than revolutionary—it would be base in ministers—it would be the height of meanness, not to avow their responsibility. Before he proceeded to make any observations on the motion of the noble lord, and on the arguments that had been used in support of it, he would advert to the circumstance which had led to the alleged offence. The noble lord had not argued at great length in support of the opinion which he had expressed as to the illegality of the measure; and he apprehended, that such an argument, if he himself were to enter into it, would not be very satisfactory to the House, or very likely to lead to a just conclusion. He said, however, that his majesty's ministers, neither at the time
158157156Mr. Robinson,
162161onus probandi160159 being in possession of the House, began by observing, that if
162161onus probandi160159Mr. Hobhouse,
183182 of Galway, begged leave, in the first instance to address himself to the consistency of the House, and to remind them of what occurred late in the last session. He appealed to the recollection of every gentleman, whether the question of the Liturgy was not repeatedly under consideration; and whether it was not, for the last time in that session, discussed in conjunction with a motion for an address to her majesty. The legal right of the Queen to be named in the Liturgy, was then hardly lisped by those
183182Mr. Martin,
199à vinculo matrimonii198197 contended, that the motion went in substance to address the king for the re-insertion of the Queen's name in the book of Common-prayer, and it was for the House to consider whether it would assent to such a proposition. The noble mover had observed, that the country was in a state of ferment and irritation; and did he think, that this motion was likely to allay that ferment? He must, however, congratulate the House on the new lights which had burst in upon them, for certainly it was but a recent discovery on the part of gentlemen opposite, that the Queen had a legal right to have her name inserted in the Liturgy. He begged leave, in support of this statement, to advert to the conduct of those gentlemen, who in June last, proposed to negociate for an equivalent. With respect to the legal question, it was not his intention to say much, as his learned friend, the Attorney General, had entered so extensively into that point. He would merely observe, that from all the references and precedents that had been used, as also from the transactions, during the reign of Henry 8th, and the provisions of the Act of Uniformity, it was manifestly clear, that the right of inserting the Queen's name in the Liturgy was vested in, and remained immediately, with, the sovereign for the time being. As
199à vinculo matrimonii198197The Solicitor General
 spoke to order. He said, it was quite beyond the bounds of debate for any member of that House to insinuate, that another member could not vote for a particular motion then under discussion, or which was likely to arise out of the discussion, without taking a part against the monarch and the monarchy itself. Such a declaration was contrary to the whole course of parliamentary proceedings; and such words were never used without being made the subject of animadversion and correction from the chair.Lord Millon
 begged to explain. The present motion, he said, did not go the length upon which he had animadverted. He had only said, that if it were followed by another, of a particular nature, and that second motion carried into effect, which he was persuaded it could not, from the turn the present motion must take, that, in that event, he thought a particular consequence must follow. He disavowed imputing any motive to-any hon. member, or any injurious effect to the present motion, which he was persuaded would fail.The Solicitor General
189188187copia verborumpibus suis.186pro rege, et princi-185litera scripta184 confessed, that he rose to address the House under feel-
189188187copia verborumpibus suis.186pro rege, et princi-185litera scripta184The Attorney General
 disavowed imputing improper motives to the noble lord who brought forward this motion.The Solicitor General
212211210209208207206205204203 commenced by ob-
212211210209208207206205204203Lord Castlereagh
 observed, that he had argued, that the ministers had not made the bill a party question in the other House.Lord Castlereagh
219218 said, that uninjured as he felt himself by the attack of the hon. and learned gentleman, he had no wish, rising unexpectedly, and at that late hour of the morning, unnecessarily to protract the contest. He would, however, tell that hon. and learned gentleman (never more ingenious than he had been that night, and never less convincing), that he was not vain enough to imagine, that the trap which had been alluded to was set by the noble mover, for so humble an individual as himself. But, at all events, be gave credit to the hon. and learned gentleman for having discovered at an
219218Mr. Alderman Heygate
 rose to explain. In answer to the right hon. gentleman, he begged to say, that he had used the word "revolutionary" without doubt, and he had used it advisedly. He also begged to be understood as applying it, not solely to this particular act of the erasure of her majesty's name from the Liturgy, but to the whole of the proceedings which had been had against the Queen.Lord Archibald Hamilton
153152151150149148147146145144143142***141140 rose to make his promised motion. He said, he was sure he had never risen in that House on any occasion when it was more necessary for him, than it was at present, to experience their candour and indulgence, both with reference to himself individually, and to the subject which he was about to bring under their consideration. It would certainly be superfluous on his part, after the numerous petitions which had that day been laid on the table, to insist either on the inherent importance of the question which the House were now called upon to discuss, or on the intense interest which the people at large took in that question. He hoped, that any deficiency on his part would be considered as made up by the number of petitions laid upon their table, of which there was not one, at all connected with the Queen's case, that did not
153152151150149148147146145144143142***141140Lord Archibald Hamilton
138 observed, that as he and his colleague had been requested to support the prayer of the petition whenever it was presented, he now rose for the purpose of doing so; and he would say, that for his own part, he was prepared to vote for any measure which might be proposed, for the re-insertion of her majesty's name in the Liturgy. He could conceive, that many persons might be alarmed by the appearance of men armed with clubs and carrying stones, or by large and turbulent meetings, or by the circulation of seditious and blasphemous libels; but he could not conceive how any man could be alarmed by the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy, especially as the peace of the country seemed to require it. The House would no doubt recollect what had been the conduct of ministers with regard to the property tax: they had retained it in their grasp as long as they could; but, after the House had expressed its opinion upon the impolicy of it, they had made a merit of giving it up to its wishes. He had therefore, no doubt, that if the House were to advise the insertion of her majesty's name in the Liturgy, ministers would
138Lord John Russell
 said, the lion, member had imputed to him, expressions too absurd for any but an idiot to have used. If the right of excluding her majesty's name was legal, still there was the question of expediency to be considered. If the hon. gentleman chose to cite his words, he ought to have done it correctly.Mr. Sergeant Onslow
121 presented a petition from the county of Berks. It complained that no inquiry had been made into the distresses of the country, but that parliament had been occupied for nanny months solely, with a needless prosecution against
121Mr. C. Dundas
155154 said, it was not his intention, when he came down to the House, to take any part in the debate of this night; but he was sure, the House would think with him, that the observations of his noble friend—if he might be permitted so to call him—with respect to the resignation of a right hon. friend of his (Mr. Canning) called for some remarks in reply. That he should have taken upon himself the task of vindicating the conduct of his right hon. friend required, he owned, some apology both to the I louse and to some of his own friends, who were far more able to execute the task. But he rose, rather to deprecate any such course, and to entreat the friends of his right hon. friend to exercise their forbearance, whatever charges or insinuation of charges might be made against him, by the noble lo*d, or by any other member. His right hon. friend, on the first agitation of this question, had taken the earliest opportunity of avowing to the House, his determination to take no part whatever in any proceedings against her majesty. From the moment that the hope of an amicable adjustment failed, his right hon. friend had abstained from all interference. He was absent from the country during the whole of the proceedings in the other House of parliament, and did not return till after the bill of Pains and Penalties had been withdrawn. On viewing the state of those proceedings on his return, he felt convinced, that the course which he had pursued before, was no longer compatible with the station he held, and there appeared to him no other alternative than to surrender his office. Having thus purchased the right of acting con-
155154Mr. Charles Ellis
179178arbitrio popularis auræ,177actum est176175174jus mariti,femmeseule,consuetudo regni173172jus coronæ.consuetudo parliamenti.171consuetudo regni?pro re nata170copia verborum169168in facie ecclesiæ,167166165consuetudines regni,164163 and several other members having risen at the same time, the cry for that gentleman became general. He said, that he had been in hopes of hearing some grounds alleged by his majesty's ministers as those upon which the order in council had proceeded, by which the omission of her majesty's name in the Liturgy of the church had been directed. The right hon. gentleman who had spoken after the noble lord opposite, had gone into a variety of observations, the tendency of which was, the justification of that act upon the part of the ministers of the Crown. Without wishing to follow the right hon. gentleman through all the statements contained in his speech, he was quite prepared to state the reasons upon which he differed from him on this most important subject. The right hon. gentleman had critically argued, not so much the matter, as the form of the motion submitted by the noble lord. For his part, he thought that form was an extremely correct one. He thought the right hon. gentleman however, had stated, in a very candid manner, what was his own view of the question, and his own opinion upon its merits: and having himself possessed the means of frequently considering it, he would now state what was the result of that attention and inquiry which he had
179178arbitrio popularis auræ,177actum est176175174jus mariti,femmeseule,consuetudo regni173172jus coronæ.consuetudo parliamenti.171consuetudo regni?pro re nata170copia verborum169168in facie ecclesiæ,167166165consuetudines regni,164163Mr. Wetherell
 explained. He had not contended, that the Queen Consort was entitled to the allegiance of the people. What he had said was, that from immemorial usage, the Queen was entitled to all those external symbols of respect and marks of homage that were paid to the king.Mr. Wetherell
 said, he had a petition to present on a subject somewhat different from the preceding petitions. It was from Cottingham; and complained of the great distress which afflicted all classes. The speech from the throne had been made to represent a state of things which existed not. Never yet had he seen one person outside of those doors who believed one word of it. Whatever ministers might believe themselves, or attempt to make others believe, sure he was, that so far as his experience extended, nine-tenths of the people joined in the belief, that without a change of ministers and measures, no satisfaction could be obtained for the people. Without an entire change of the system acted upon, the unhappy agitation which prevailed, and from which, the royal name, the royal family, and the best interests of the country had suffered, could not be allayed. For this reason, too, the petitioners prayed for the dismissal of ministers. On the first day of the session he had heard much of the folly and mischief of certain persons; but he would ask, whether there could be folly and mischief equal to the folly and mischief of those who had instituted the proceedings against the Queen? He should have thought that wisdom would have dictated very different conduct in point of prudence; he should have thought that wisdom would have dictated very different conduct on the ground of justice. The measures against the Queen had been conceived in mischief, nursed up in folly, and supported by perjury.Mr. Sykes
128 rose to present a petition from the inhabitants of Chorley, in Lancashire, complaining of the unprecedented treatment of her majesty, and praying, not merely, that the Queen's name should be restored to the Liturgy, but also that her majesty should be invested, without further delay, in all the honours and dignities due to her exalted station. Such was the prayer of the petitioners, in the whole of which he cordially concurred; and he thought ministers would abandon their duty if they did not immediately accede to the wishes of the country, and give that advice to their sovereign which
128Lord Stanley
 said, he held in his hand a petition from the inhabitants of the town of Boston, similar in its general prayer to those which had been already received. In presenting it, he could not avoid expressing a hope that all those proceedings which had now so long, to the exclusion of every other subject, engaged the attention of parliament, might be brought speedily to an end. In their progress they had not been less detrimental to the dignity of the throne, than repugnant to the feelings of the people; and where so much must now be granted—and so little could be denied, a full restitution of the rights and privileges of Queen Consort appeared to him to be the most just and the most politic course.Mr. Heathcote
213 stated, that he should not have thought of trespassing upon the patience of the House at that late hour, were it not for the speech of the noble lord, who had allowed expressions to fall from him which he could not allow to pass unanswered. He could have wished, for the sake of that noble lord, and still more for the sake of the country and of the illustrious lady whom the noble lord had done all in his power to vilify, that he had been allowed to be silent; but the whole of the noble lord's speech was designed to give new life to the fatal dissentions which were agitating the country, and to place the illustrious parties concerned, in a state of contention for an indefinite length of time. For the sake of casting new stigmas upon her majesty, and fixing upon her the charges ministers had abandoned in their evidence, he had not only infringed all bounds of decorum, but all forms of debate, and with the artful sedulousness of the penner of a paragraph for a party newspaper, had entered into a laboured analysis of the votes, in the Lords, to whose proceedings in ordinary cases a bare reference only was allowed. If at a time when not only justice, but all the forms which were the handmaids of justice, were violated for the one purpose of destroying the Queen (unless, indeed, he should add that of distracting the country), he might be allowed to follow so vicious and unparliamentary a precedent, he should be able to give a satisfactory answer to the noble lord. He could shew, that of the illustrious individuals who composed the majorities and minorities, not one could possibly be influenced by the royal person who was the object of the prosecution; he could shew, that the royal person who, was the real prosecutor, was represented
213Mr. Brougham
 remarked, that the noble lord had himself wandered into discussion of the motives of the peers, to which it was necessary that an answer should be given.Mr. Brougham
217zerocatch216215214 continued.—If it was true, that the minister had not made this a party question, such a circumstance could not by any possibility appear on the face of the journals, but if such circumstances were so recorded, it would not be found on those journals or any where else, because it was notoriously and directly contrary to the fact. Never, not only in out own times, but if they recurred to
217zerocatch216215214Mr. Brougham
181180 said, that the real question
181180Dr. Dodson
 presented a petition from the town of Wantage. The petitioners called the attention of parliament to the existing state of the agricultural classes; they also complained of the treatment experienced by the Queen, and stated, that nothing but the reinstatement of her majesty's name in the Liturgy, and her investiture in all the honours of her rank as Queen Consort, could allay the agitation which prevailed throughout the country. He heartily concurred in the prayer of the petition, and earnestly hoped, or rather wished—for hopes he had none—that sentiments like these, which were so honourable to the sense and feelings of the people, would not be lost upon his majesty's ministers. He earnestly wished that the voice of the people might not, as heretofore, be thwarted, and that parliament would not exhibit a determined spirit of opposition to the sentiments of the people at large.Mr. Monck
 presented a petition from the corporation of Nottingham, praying, that no further proceedings should be instituted against the Queen—a prayer which, after what had been declared by the noble lord opposite, the hon. member was willing to consider as already complied with. He trusted that the worthy alderman (Heygate) who disapproved of the original exclusion of her majesty's name from the Liturgy, and yet professed himself to be against its restoration, would attend in his place that night, and find reason, in the course of the debate, to change his view of the question.Mr. Birch
 presented a petition signed by 1,700 inhabitants of the city of York, complaining of the conduct of ministers towards her majesty, and praying for the restoration of all her rights, and especially for the restoration of her name to the Liturgy. He took that opportunity of stating, that it was with considerable pain he learnt that the noble lord opposite, did not, of himself, intend to advise the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy. He inferred from this conduct, that neither ministers nor his majesty were aware of the irritation which prevailed throughout the country on this subject. He must also say, that he was greatly surprised that ministers had no intention of instituting an investigation into the Milan commission. The country would assume from this conduct, and confidently assume as a fact, that there had been a conspiracy, and that ministers were parties to that conspiracy.Mr. Wyvill
 observed, that he approved much more of this petition than of that which had been presented by the Queen's Solicitor General. As counsel for the Queen the learned gentleman might naturally entertain a strong and honest prejudice in her favour; but before others allowed themselves to bring forward charges of conspiracy and perjury, they ought to be able to prove their allegations. He wished, therefore, to give notice, that if he should hear parties accused of having committed bribery and false swearing in order to calumniate and degrade the Queen, he would challenge them to put something in a course of proof, so as to give to the accused a legitimate mode of defending themselves. This might be easily done by moving, that all the papers relative to the late inquiry should be taken into consideration. [Cries of "Move, move."] Move what? what was he to move? It was for those who made the charges to substantiate them.Mr. R. Martin
l.139 said, he would not detain the House, at any length, from the important question about to be brought forward, but begged to call their attention, for a few moments to the motion now made. This was the first stage of an annual parliamentary process, called a Committee of Supply; a process by which, once or twice every week, hundreds of thousands on hundreds of thousands, and millions on millions, of the public money, were voted in that House, in the presence of not more than a dozen persons, exclusively of the ministers of the Crown. He hoped, however, that things would now go on better. The public seemed to have taken a noble attitude; by their efforts, they had prevented her majesty from being overborne by superior power—they had prevented the laws and the constitution from being subverted by the ministers of the Crown. He trusted they would now turn their attention to the protection of their own property in that House He did not know whether it was true, that an illustrious individual had declared that a public meeting in this country was a farce. If it was true that such an expression had been used, he would say of it, that it was not a British sentiment, but must have been imported from Troppau; the royal politicians assembled at which place, no doubt, thought every thing a farce but their own plans of conquest and tyranny. A farce! If he wished for a farce, re-
l.139Mr. Creevey
127 said, he was obliged to the hon. gentleman for the terms in which he had thought proper to allude to him, but he scarcely thought he stood in need of a defence or apology for presenting the petition which had called forth the hon. member's animadversions. He was not bound to justify, to its full extent, the language of the petition, of which not one word was his own; neither was he aware, that any charge was preferred against
127Mr. Denman
126 presented a petition from the inhabitants of Nottingham, in which, they described the late proceedings against her majesty as having originated in a foul conspiracy, and expressed a hope, that the feelings so generally entertained amongst the people on this subject would be likewise found to animate that House. They deprecated any renewal of proceedings so
126Mr. Denman
 presented a petition from the inhabitants of Godalming. It was most respectably signed. Its prayer was, for the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy; and for such reform in that House as would give the people a free, fair, and full representation. He fully agreed in this prayer, though he was no advocate for the wild schemes of annual parliaments and universal suffrage.Mr. Denison
 rose to present a petition from the parishes of St. Mary Magdalen, Bermondsey, and others, praying for the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy. It lamented that the late measures against her majesty should ever have been instituted. In the sentiments and prayers of the petitioners he concurred, being convinced, that a more impolitic, unwise, and unjust measure, than that of striking her majesty's name out of the Liturgy, could not have been devised; and being also convinced, that nothing could restore tranquillity to the country but the replacing of her majesty's name where it ought to be. On the motion, that the petition be printed,Mr. Denison
 agreed with the hon. gentleman, that economy was desirable, but could not agree that the petition ought not to be printed. Those from whom it came, though in a humble situation, were as much entitled to have their sentiments made known to their fellow subjects as any other body of men could be.Mr. Denison
 presented a petition from Margate, praying for the dismissal of ministers, and the restoration of the Queen to all her rights and dignities. Those who signed it were freeholders, and, in publicly meeting to express their sentiments on public events, were not conscious that they were acting "a farce," but imagined rather that they were engaged in the exercise of one of their most valuable liberties. He feared much, that if these petitions should be treated with neglect, the people would be confirmed in an opinion which they had long entertained, namely, that the House did not speak the sense, or represent the wishes of the country.Mr. Honywood
120 presented a petition from Carlisle, praying for the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy, and entreating that the House would no longer continue to support ministers, who had introduced and supported such unconstitutional measures. The petition was signed by more than 1,000 names, and it reprobated the bill of Pains and Penalties as a violation of the constitution and of the fundamental laws of the realm, and as
120Mr. James
 presented a petition to the same effect from several clergymen of the established church, and several dissenting ministers of Evesham, deploring the measures which had been hitherto pursued against her majesty, and entreating, that her name might be forthwith restored to the Liturgy, and, that she should be invested with all the honours, dignities, and prerogatives, due to her station. He concurred with the petitioners in thinking that the act of striking the Queen's name out of the Liturgy was unwise, inexpedient, and unfair. The ministers ought, without delay, to retrace their steps. By no other mode of conduct could they allay the agitated state of public feeling.Mr. Rouse Boughton
 presented a petition from certain inhabitants of the city of Norwich, which he declared to be perfectly respectful and constitutional in all its language. The petition prayed for the restoration of the Queen's name to the Liturgy, for the dismissal of ministers, and for a reform of the Commons House of parliament. It contained the uninfluenced sentiments of many inhabitants of Norwich, who were no less distinguished for their talent than for their integrity. It was signed by 4,500 individuals in a few days, over whose mind no interest or influence had been exercised by any person whatsoever.Mr. W. Smith
122 presented a petition from the inhabitants of Lambeth. It was signed by more than 2,000 respectable inhabitants. It was the firm belief of the petitioners, that nothing could allay the irritation of the country but the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy and to all the rights belonging to a Queen consort. He cordially coincided with the petitioners, and he had placed that reliance on the candour and humanity of ministers, that as soon as they had been compelled to give up the prosecution they would have restored her majesty's name to the Liturgy. He still hoped
122Mr. W. Williams
 here interrupted the right hon. gentleman and reminded him, that he was out of order. The reason he had not interrupted the hon. baronet was, that he had not been able to collect, from what had fallen from him, the person to I whom he alluded.The Speaker
 reported the king's answer to the address as follows:Mr. Speaker
 said, that the distinction as to the remarks made upon the other House of parliament was this:—At the end of every session, the journals of the House of Lords were communicated to the House of Commons, as the votes of the Commons were regularly communicated to the Lords. As soon as the journals of the Lords were so communicated, they became matter of historical record, and whatever appeared on the face of them, could be remarked upon. The noble lord had remarked upon the reasons which noble lords had given for their votes, which, as he understood, were professedly drawn from the protests which were of course found on the journals. If the noble lord had gone beyond this, as the hon. and learned gentleman seemed to have understood him, he (the Speaker) was remiss in not having checked the noble lord upon the same principle as he had checked the hon. and learned gentleman.The Speaker
 interposed, on the ground that it was irregular to remark on the motives which had influenced members of the other house of parliament.The Speaker
 expressed his regret, that he had not accurately caught the words attributed to the hon. and learned gentleman. The right hon. gentleman then stated, what he inferred to be the effect of the expressions used, and drew a distinction between an effect prospectively imputed to be the result of a motion by way of argument, and a motive ascribed to an individual as intending to produce that result. The latter would be highly disorderly; the former in his opinion not so.The Speaker
 expressed a hope that, on the score of economy, hon. gentlemen would not press the printing of every petition of this sort that might be presented. He therefore hoped the hon. member would not persevere in the motion he had made.Sir E. Knatchbull
196195194193be192sub silentio,mensa et thoro;à vinculo matrimoniià vinculo malrimoniià vinculo matrimonii.191190ad hominem, assured the House, that it was with great reluctance he rose to address them at an hour when their patience must be nearly worn out, and upon topics which were not generally acceptable to that assembly; but having satisfied his own mind of the illegality of the exclusion of her majesty's name from the Liturgy, he felt that he was bound, at every inconvenience, to deliver the opinion which he had formed upon reflection, and which he should carry with him to the grave. He was convinced, that the advice given by his majesty's ministers was a violation of the written and common law of the land; a subversion of the rules of justice, and an attack upon the principles of the British monarchy. He did not mean to go at any length into the arguments on the subject; his task was an easy one, after the able manner in which the question was treated by his learned friend the member for Oxford, whose arguments appeared to him the most conclusive, the most luminous, and the most satisfactory he had ever heard. His reasoning was unanswerable, and he should therefore, merely confine himself to a few observations on some points urged by his hon. and learned friend the Attorney General. The arguments of his hon. and learned friend, and of the right hon. the president of the Board of Trade, were arguments, 196195194193be192sub silentio,mensa et thoro;à vinculo matrimoniià vinculo malrimoniià vinculo matrimonii.191190ad hominem,Sir James Mackintosh
ex parte202201 observed, that the present question was one which mainly involved the stability of the present ministers, and they themselves had made it a question of that nature. At so late an hour, he did not wish to enter deeply into its consideration; but every man who valued principle, who valued the dignity of the throne and the maintenance of the constitution, was called upon to make a stand for their defence. The due administration of justice was concerned in this question; but confident declamation could neither alter its nature, nor detract from its importance. The present question involved the fate of ministers; but the president of the Board of Trade had met the charge against his colleagues by a vote of adjournment. This was a proof of the justice of their cause, of the manliness with which they dared to meet it! The world, however, would judge of this. Honest men of the present day would see it as it deserved to be regarded. Why did not ministers call on their majority to bear them through their appeal? Their confidence bespoke, that at least they had some colour of justice or mistaken policy on their side. In the hour of trial they were found to have neither. It was said, on a former occasion, that the time might arrive when discussion would come. That time was now come; and, to the great dissatisfaction, he believed, of all sides, the merits of the government were not to be discussed, nor the necessity of their measures met by any decisive measure. The Solicitor General had spoken very confidently; but confidence was not proof nor assertion always fact. The House of Commons was not, perhaps, the best tribunal to discuss legal topics;
ex parte202201Mr. Scarlett
135 hoped the hon. I baronet, would do him the justice to allow, that he had not misconceived whom he had alluded to. He had made several: severe observations, and had entirely misrepresented what he supposed to have I been said on the occasion alluded to. If he knew the noble person to whom he had alluded, he would find, that there was not a man in that House, in the country, or in the world, who held in higher estimation than that noble person did, the liberties of the people of England, [a laugh, and cries of hear, hear !] This might extract a smile and a laugh front lawyers; it might excite cries of "hear, hear," from civilians; but it would not elicit a smile and a laugh from those who knew that noble lord—who acknowledged the advantages the country had derived from his talents, and were acquainted with his constitutional principles, which were not only duly appreciated in this island, but were perfectly understood all over the world. He admitted, that he ought not to have suffered the observations made on the other side of the House to have occasioned any warmth of feeling in expressing the few words with which he meant to trouble them. A to what the hon. baronet asserted, namely, that the noble lord had treated county meetings disrespectfully, he felt perfectly-convinced, that that noble person never had it in his contemplation to state, and never did state, any thing that was disrespectful of county meetings. He was confident, that that noble lord never uttered a word that could be considered disrespectful to the freeholders. What his noble
135Mr. Wellesley Pole
 said, he had not uttered a word about, that meeting. He had stated, that the noble lord spoke of a tumultous meeting; but lie had not mentioned where it was held.Mr. W. Pole
 said, he hardly knew in what way he ought to treat the observations which had fallen from the hon. baronet on the other side. He had some doubts as to whether the hon. baronet's allusions fell within the orders of that House; but as he was not stopped by the Chair, it only remained for him to make a few observations on them. The hon. gentleman had used very hard words—[Cries of 'No,' and 'Yes']—were not sentiments such as he had expressed with respect to a noble person—Mr. Wellesley Pole
130129 said, he held in his hand a petition, signed by 2,097 persons of that respectable class of artisans denominated the Spanish Morocco Leather-dressers [a laugh]. He did not know what there was in that to excite a laugh; it was true the petitioners were poor but they were honest, industrious, and loyal; they also paid heavy taxes, and had as much right to be heard in that House as the constituents of the representative of any borough in England. They were as well entitled to attention, when they approached that House with the expression of their sentiments upon a great national question, as any body of men whatever, and they were then more especially deserving of being heard when they held one uniform language with all their countrymen upon the important subject which occupied, at that moment, the attention of parliament. That language was strong, but it was just. They expressed their detestation of the odious proceedings against the Queen, and more particularly the act of omitting her name in the Liturgy while she was yet untried. This they called an outrage to decency and law, and insisted that it was evidently intended to brand her majesty with infamy in the first instance, that she might be compelled to remain in exile, or if she returned home, that the disgrace attached to her name might facilitate her condemnation at the bar of public opinion; and of both Houses of parliament as one
130129Sir Robert Wilson
 deprecated the manner in which the king's name had been made use of in the course of the present discussion, for the purpose of influencing the minds of members of that House. To answer a legal argument by appeals to the personal feelings of any body of men in that House, gave the strongest reason to suppose, that the legal argument could not be met.—[Hear, from the Attorney General.] As it seemed to be the intention of the learned gentleman opposite to meet the argument, he would furnish him with one more subject for the exercise of his ingenuity in answering it. In the Act of Uniformity passed by the Irish parliament, two years after the act passed in this country, there was a clause which ran thus:—"In all prayers, litanies, and collects in the Common-prayer, wherein mention is made of the king, queen, royal family, lord lieutenant, or any other of the lawful authorities of the kingdom, the names and titles shall be altered and changed from time to time, as circumstances may require." These words were a plain comment, which served to explain the intent and meaning of that part of the act; and being so, it appeared to him, to be impossible to contend, that any authority was thereby given to leave out any of the parties so mentioned, or to make any alteration but that of the names. With respect to the proposal of bringing in a new act on the subject, it was for those to do so who thought, that the law as it now stood was inconclusive on the subject.Sir John Newport
 presented a petition, numerously and respectably signed, to the number of 1,250 persons, from Dartmouth and its vicinity, deploring the omission of her majesty's name in the Liturgy, as tending to occasion endless differences, and heart-burnings in society, regretting that the people, who were taught to pray for all Jews, Turks, Infidels, and Heretics, were prevented from joining in prayer I for her majesty; and hoping, that the House would deliberate for the purpose of procuring the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy, and of securing her from further oppression.Sir T. Acland
 said, that until he came into that House, he knew not a syllable of the proceeding in question, and therefore the right hon. gentleman could not correctly state that he had alluded to any thing which occurred in the House of Lords. In fact, he only heard that the words were made use of by the noble person referred to, unaccompanied with any statement of the place in which they were uttered.Sir W. De Crespigny
133 said, that having been one of the principal actors in this county farce he begged leave to say a few words respecting it. He used the term "farce" because he found, that county meetings were in future to be deemed farces, comedies, or perhaps, tragedies. He heard that county meetings had, in a most indecent, unconstitutional, and improper manner, been compared to mobs. In a short time, he supposed, all bodies would be looked upon as mobs, except battalions of infantry and squadrons of horse. He would venture to say, that he felt as much respect for military talents as any man in the country; but let such sentiments come from the most mighty mouths that could be, he would, in his place, protest against them, not only as disrespectful to parliament, but to the country at large. They were not now on the plains of Water-
133Sir W. De Crespigny
 was glad to find the hon. member for Kent so alive to the necessity of observing the most rigid economy, and trusted the House and the country would regard it only as an earnest of the zeal with which, for the future, the hon. member would labour for the reduction of every useless expense and unnecessary office. Perhaps he would find, that the office of receiver-general of the land-tax was one which might be dispensed with, under the present circumstances of the country, and the business connected with it, performed through some other channel. Should a motion to this effect be made, he hoped the country would be favoured with the support of the hon. gentleman, who might perhaps be an important witness on this subject.Lord Milton
200 again said, that for any hon. member to say, that any motion would lead to, another motion, which was an attack on the monarch and monarchy,
200Lord Milton
 apprehended, that the reception of the petition might lead to a peecedent which, on other occasions, would be found highly inconvenient.Mr. Calcraft
 took that opportunity to ask, at what period the hon. member for Durham intended bringing forward his motion on the subject of parliamentary reform, which he had been induced to postpone last Session.Mr. Hobhouse
224 entreated the indulgence of the House whilst he submitted to their notice a few observations connected with the subject then before them. From the first clay that he had had the honour of a seat in parliament, now nearly twenty years ago, he had uniformly opposed every motion of a general undefined nature for parliamentary reform. He had done so because it was his conscientious belief, that, whatever blemishes might appear to exist in theory in our representative system, in practice it worked beneficially for the country, and secured to it as many advantages as were enjoyed in any other country in Europe. With those impressions, and he might say, with those convictions, on his mind, he had never consented to put at risk, for any theoretical benefits, that constitution which con-
224Mr. Grenfell
225 observed, that the avowal which his hon. friend, had made of his change of opinion on the vital question of reform, was exactly what he should have expected from his well-known candour. The vote to which the House had come on Saturday last, had made more reformers than any other within his knowledge; Mr. Burke had said, that the spirit and
225Mr. Philips
227 was surprised at hearing hon. gentlemen inform the House, that the reason why they voted against the motion of his noble friend on a late occasion was, not that they thought, that ministers had acted rightly, but, that they thought, that no other set of men were to be found worthy of public confidence. Now, he, who was an humble individual, and without any inclination or pretensions to become a minister, would beg leave to ask them, what justification they had found in that averment, either for the votes which they had given, or for the administration which they had upheld? It was impossible not to perceive the shock which the loyalists, and even the ultra-loyalists, in all parts of the country, had received from the late unparalleled proceedings of ministers against the Queen; and surely they ought to be considered reprehensible for the manner in which they had impaired the attachment of the people to their constitution and their laws. Besides, it was a calumny upon the country to say—Though I cannot support the present ministers, yet I will keep them in their places for this and for no other reason—that I know of none who could fill them better."—He concurred in what had fallen from his hon. friend, the member for Penryn, regarding the necessity of some reform in parliament. He, too, had once a strong feeling against reform, but, he was now convinced, that if the House did not, in the course of the session, express some opinion in sympathy with that of the people, as to the degrading character of the late persecution of her majesty, it would do more to condemn the manner in which the House of Commons, as at present constituted, was formed, than all the speeches which had been delivered by all the demagogues from the beginning of time. He concluded by reminding those members who opposed all motions for improving the present system of representation, that it was their
227Mr. Baring
 presented a petition from Litchfield, praying, that there might be no further proceedings against her majesty, and that her name might be restored to the Liturgy.Sir George Anson
 presented a similar petition from Kirkcaldy. Adverting to the sentiments of the people of Scotland, he observed, that if ministers placed any reliance on the opinions of the county meetings of Scotland in their favour, they were much deceived. Contrasting the character and numbers of the opposite petitions from Edinburgh, he observed, that the first, which was in favour of government and was framed in secret, lay for five or six weeks on the council table in that city, and was signed by only about 1,000 persons. Then came the open meeting of a different description, the petition from which was in three weeks signed by above 17,000 persons. The same thing took place in Glasgow, where a petition in favour of the Queen, was signed by 18,000 persons. He was persuaded, that if the feelings of the people of Scotland on the subject were fairly represented, it would appear that 99 out of 100 disapproved of the conduct of ministers with respect to her majesty. The petition which he held in his hand, prayed, that her majesty might be restored to all her rights. Like the other Scotch petitions, it said nothing about the Liturgy, for he thanked God, there were no such trammels on divine worship in Scotland as in this country! Every man there was allowed to pray to God in his own way; and in his opinion, the spontaneous prayer of an honest man, in whatever rank of life, was more valuable than any prayer which the noble lord and his colleagues could frame in their cabinet.Sir. R. Fergusson
233 could not allow the statement of the gallant general to go forth without contradiction. So far as county meetings had expressed themselves they were decidedly in favour of the con-
233The Lord Advocate
, with all his respect for the learned lord, could not sit still and hear him calumniate his country. He positively denied, that the county meetings in Scotland represented the whole property of the country. A very great part of the property in Scotland was not represented at all. The middle classes—the strength of every nation—were not represented in Scotland. They were now, however, roused to a determination to obtain their rights. No people could deserve better to enjoy them; and he trusted, that in the course of a few years, they would obtain a fair representation. In the county meetings alluded to by the noble lord, many held the right of voting—lawyers and others—without being possessed of any property at all. With respect to the two petitions from Edinburgh, they most forcibly illustrated the state of the public opinion in that city; and as to the statement, that individuals had repeatedly signed their names to one of those petitions, he had no faith whatever in it.Mr. Kennedy
234 maintained, that the county meetings in Scotland, constituted as they were, did represent the opinions of the country. He did not deny, that in Scotland as in England, there was a great impression in favour of her majesty, among certain classes of the people, but, when the gallant general talked of 99 out of 100 entertaining those sentiments, it was a very great exaggeration. His learned friend had stated the nature of the Edinburgh petition. The meeting was called in the theatre, and several ingenious individuals, well known over the whole country, addressed the audience from the stage. The petition then agreed to was
234Lord Binning
 said, that the petition presented from Aberdeen had not been respectably signed, and that the names of a number of boys and persons of no consideration had been affixed to it.Mr. Forbes
 said, he would state it as a fact, that at every county meeting that had been held, even the party calling the meeting were loud in the declaration, that they did not mean to say one word in favour of ministers.Sir R. Fergusson
238 said, that even if no communication had been made from the Queen, he should still have felt bound to resist the motion of the noble lord. He, for one, on this day, would not consent to take a single step towards granting any supply: nothing but a change of measures, and a full explanation on the part of ministers, could induce him to comply with the proposition, that the Speaker should leave the chair. In the first place, he would say, that he thought it was the duty of the House not to grant a farthing of the public money, in the present state of the country, until a complete and comprehensive inquiry had been instituted into the expenditure, with a view to extensive reductions, in some degree commensurate with the extensive and universal distresses of the times. He submitted, with confidence, that when all classes were suffering to an extent without precedent, the House ought to set on foot some measure of general and effectual economy. He was acting consistently with a regard for the constitution, and conformably to his duty as a member of the House, in endeavouring to guard the purse of the public. He would not now press this subject farther, but he was convinced, that it was the feeling of the country at large, that the parliament ought to direct its attention, in the first instance, to the adoption of some measures, that would lead to a reduction of the general public expenditure. He, for one, would not advance one step till some plan of that nature were proposed. He would now address himself to the question of the vote which the House was about to give; and he entreated the attention of honourable members to the situation in which they stood. One of his majesty's ministers had avowed his intention of moving that night for a grant to her majesty; but the House would recollect, that the noble lord, when he gave that notice, had most unjustly taken occasion to say, that
238Mr. Western
herher239 said, he should first address himself to the preliminary obser-
herher239Lord Castlereagh
 supported the petition, and bore testimony to the respectability of the inhabitants who had signed it.Mr. Calvert
243242241 proceeded. The hon. and learned gentleman would have found if he had been allowed to proceed, that he was not out of order. With respect to
243242241Lord Castlereagh
244 assured the hon. member for Essex, that he had not used the word to give him pain; than which nothing could be further from his intention, nor less consistent with the respect he entertained for him. He was most reluctantly impelled to pursue the course of argument in which he had indulged; for he never could allow the House and the country to be misled as to the nature of the proceedings against the Queen, in the manner that had been attempted by the gentlemen opposite. The withdrawal of the bill, he was ready to admit, was an end to the question of guilt and innocence, in-as-far as it was determined to originate no new proceedings. But his noble friend, in another place (the earl of Liverpool), in taking that step, was not to be considered
244Lord Castlereagh
. —I threw out no aspersions against the Queen.Lord Castlereugh
257256255 said, that the right hon. gentleman had excluded from his consideration the most material part of the speech from the throne which affected the Queen, and which stated the provision formerly made for her, to have expired—and of course made it necessary, that another
257256255Mr. Bathurst
261ll260259l258 said, he could not refrain from taking that opportunity of addressing a few words to the House. He entreated the House, if it had any regard for its own character, and the estimation in which it must stand in the opinion of the people, to pause even at the last hour before they proceeded in this business. No man had deplored and deprecated these proceedings more than himself—from their very commencement—from the time that the message, accompanied by the green bag, first came down to the House. He foresaw the mischievous consequences which would inevitably result from them, and every day's experience had confirmed the opinion which he first entertained—that the longer they were continued the greater calamities were likely to ensue. He would go no further back than to the speech of the noble lord opposite, and he would then ask the House whether, from the tone and temper of that speech, it were possible that the discussion of this subject could go on without infinite calamity to the country? If, at this fourth day of the session, the noble lord could exhibit so much intemperate and angry feeling, what had the House to expect, after a few more discussions, but an exhibition of feelings still more inflamed and exasperated? If the noble lord, with all that command of temper which he usually possessed, could still charge his right honourable friend with the design of disturbing the tranquillity of the country, what, lie would repeat, had the House to expect from protracted discussion? It was an extraordinary spectacle to see a minister of the Crown coming down to the House to move for an allowance to the Queen, and taking that opportunity of throwing out sarcasms against her majesty, charging her with an attempt to establish a separate authority in the state, and to exact allegiance from the people; accusing her, in fact, of an offence very little short of high treason. Was this a fit exhibition on the part of a minister of the Crown? The right hon. gentleman who spoke last had talked of the admission of her majesty's name to the Liturgy as a matter of favour to her majesty. Now, he knew of no favour asked for her majesty on his side of the House; they asked only for those rights to which she was entitled, and those dignities which became her station. But if favour were
261ll260259l258Lord Folkestone
268, of Gal way, reprobated the intemperate conduct of the hon. member for Essex, and others who had spoken in the debate. He wondered how they could keep the natural "Ruby in their cheek, while his was blanched with fear." Do gentlemen mean what they express, when they say, they will not vote the supply until her majesty's name shall be inserted in the Liturgy? These puny politicians propose in desperation, what an opposition, resting on high character and splendid talents, never, when in their highest and most "palmy state," ventured to contemplate. More—what they had the good sense, even in the height of the American war to disclaim. What! disband the army, the navy, break faith with all the public creditors, because seven or eight ministers do not advise his majesty to insert the name of the Queen in the Liturgy! It was monstrous, to suspend all the functions of the state to gratify the Queen in an idle punctilio.—It is said, her majesty is dishonoured, and subscribes to her own infamy, if she shall relinquish this demand of being prayed for. Let us examine this proposition a little in detail. The Queen's name might be inserted in the prayers of the church and yet be guilty, and excluded and yet be innocent. The Queen having no power to compel the king and council to insert her name in the Liturgy, its not being there can never supply an argument to her enemies, out of which to extract a charge of guilt. Her majesty, and her majesty's adherents, have done all in their power to effect that object, but have not been able to induce the king in council to assent to their demand. Suppose both parties committed on this point of the Liturgy—which ouaht to give way? He had proved, he thought, that in this instance her majesty, the Queen, could do so without even an implied supposition of guilt.—But ought the Crown to be advised by the most pusillanimous counsellors, to vary the determination advisedly come to on the subject? To induce this retraction of purpose and of conduct on the part of the Crown, ministers were denounced as guilty conspirators, attainting the honour of the Queen. They were denounced as such, and their impeachment clamorously demanded by the orators on the other side, and, for these courtesies, and in token
268Mr. Martin
llllll269 stated to the committee, that after the length of the previous discussion, he should feel it his duty to state what he had to propose, hi as short a compass as possible. He considered the question now before the committee, as one perfectly independent of the question of the guilt or innocence of the Queen, and confined solely to the consideration of the quantum of provision suited to her rank and station in the country. He apprehended, that in this view, parliament would feel disposed to treat it as a measure, not of economy, but of liberality, befitting her majesty's rank and family. At the same time, he also apprehended, that the measure must be looked at in reference to her majesty's situation as a Queen Consort—separated for a long time from her husband—a separation so justly admitted by the hon. and learned gentleman, one of her majesty's advisers, to have been recognised by the late sovereign. Her case was therefore different from that of a queen con-
llllll269Lord Castlereagh
273, of Galway, said, he was concerned to hear the Queen's answers to her numerous addressers vindicated. Some of those answers were written, it was said, under provocation, and when much irritation existed in her majesty's mind. He granted it was to a certain degree, and up to a certain time, an excuse; but it was not after the abandonment of the bill in the Lords. What apology could be offered for the studious canvass made by the Queen for the suffrage of the army and navy, and for the abortive attempts made to cause them to mutiny? All this he charged to the traitorous advisers of her majesty. These were her supposed friends, and yet these were to be consigned to ignominious death if they failed to subvert the throne and monarchy. Was it the worthy alderman that advised the Queen to demand the pardon of an unfortunate woman convicted of selling forged notes? If these mischievous advisers wished to save the
273Mr. Martin
 concurred with his noble friend as to the propriety of adopting healing measures only, and with that view was willing to forego his intention.Mr. S. Wortley
277ll276 thought it matter of regret, that the bill of Pains and Penalties had not passed from the House of Lords to an assembly where it might have been discussed with all that temper, moderation, humanity, and justice, which had so conspicuously adorned the speech of the hon. member for Surrey. That hon. member was the first man in that House who had presumed to utter—who had dared to declare—that the Queen had been proved and found guilty of adultery. The hon. member for Surrey had not followed the wise example of the noble lord opposite, who had prudently abstained from comment on the subject; but, not having been called upon to judge the cause—having heard, in all probability, the evidence but imperfectly—having, perhaps, merely read the evidence without seeing the witnesses—the honourable member came forward, uncalled, unasked, to declare her majesty, in his firm, conviction, guilty. Really when he looked at the whole train of proceeding, and thought of the opinion which the hon. member had pronounced, he did think, that the Queen might have met a fairer trial from
277ll276Dr. Lushington
278 trusted, that there was not a single member who would rashly give credit to the charges which the hon. member for Surrey had so boldly urged against her majesty, and all of which were destitute of foundation. He called upon that hon. member to come forward, and to mention any one bill of her majesty's that was unpaid. The hon. member had stated, that none of her majesty's bills were paid, and had insinuated, that the money which she had received to pay them had been expended in promoting the most wicked purposes. Now, if the House were to call for an account of every farthing expended by her majesty, he would undertake to say, that they would find it expended in such a manner as would give universal satisfaction. The bills of all her tradesmen were paid monthly. It was true, that such had not been the case immediately after her arrival. The expenses of her journey had made her in want of money; and her first quarter's allowance was in great part con-
278Mr. Alderman Wood
l said, that by the treaty of marriage between her majesty and the present king, then prince of Wales, her majesty became entitled, upon the demise of the Crown, to 50,000lLord Castlereagh
 said, that he did not want any credit from the hon. gentleman, but he was sure the House would believe him, when he told them, that the book was regularly shewn to him by her majesty's steward, and that every article was paid for monthly.Mr. Alderman Wood
 stated, that if the worthy alderman had made a declaration regarding what had fallen within his own knowledge, he should have given implicit credence to him. But it appeared, that the steward had merely shown the books to him, and the books only contained an account of what was paid. The worthy alderman therefore, could not know how much remained unpaid.Mr. H. Stumner
280 expressed his regret, that the hon. member for Surrey had brought forward such charges as he had done, on no better authority than mere rumour. He had obtained all that he wished in a manifestation of the feelings of the House, and, if called upon to
280Mr. S. Wortley
 wished to know, why this provision should not be made out of the Civil List, instead of being made an additional burden on the people.Mr. Western
 said, that the treasury had no more power of converting the Civil List from the purposes to which it was appropriated, than they had of converting to other uses any parliamentary grant.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
271 expressed his surprise, that any person of common feelings of generosity could have brought himself to reproach her majesty, irritated as she was by so many provocations, for any language she might have been compelled to use in the progress of the severe and bitter trial to which she had been exposed. There was, however, a precedent for the conduct pursued by the hon. member for Yorkshire, and also for the language used by a worthy alderman on a recent occasion; and that precedent he found in the time of Henry 8th. In that reign, the sycophants of the court were anxious to add whatever weight belonged to them to the charges already brought against queen Catharine, and, among others she was accused, by cardinal Wolsey, of having conciliated the affections of the people; one accusation, to that effect, was actually drawn up against her
271Lord John Russell
 deprecated the language of the answers which the Queen had returned to the addresses.Alderman C Smith
 disclaimed the motives on which the hon. member for Yorkshire had said, that he and his friends had acted. He was clearly of opinion, that the erasure of the Queen's name from the Liturgy was an illegal act, and under that conviction he had given his vote.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 said, the noble lord had attributed to him the expression, that the subjects of the King owed allegiance to the Queen also. He appealed to the recollection of the House, whether, when that expression had been attributed to-him on a former occasion, he had not risen to deny it.Mr. Wetherell
 said, he grounded his appeal to the House on the noble lord's-having attributed to him expressions in a former debate which he had never uttered ["no, no!"].Mr. Wetherell
 said the point was this:—When the Attorney-General had on a former night attributed to him—Mr. Wetherell
240 rose to order. He said, that when, on the other night, after an argument of a legal nature which he had
240Mr. Wetherell
 rose, merely to ask a question of the noble lord opposite. If he had correctly understood the intention of the noble lord, it was, that her majesty should be placed, putting aside every thing that had taken place, in the same situation in which the demise of the Crown would have placed her. In the event, however, of the demise of the Crown, the Queen, he apprehended, would have been entitled to a palace, or would have had some mansion assigned to her; such, at least, had been the case with the late Queen. In the proposition of the noble lord, however, there had been no grant of a palace or mansion, nor any mention of procuring one.Lord Stanley
 rose to present a similar petition from the lodge of Odd Fellows, No. 1, of Inverness, and No. 2, of Scotland.Mr. Cumming
229 presented a petition from Aylesbury, which had been agreed to unanimously, at one of the most respectable and numerous public meetings which ever took place there. The petition, besides praying for the insertion of her majesty's name in the Liturgy, and the restoration of her rights, complained of the existing distresses of the country', and prayed for parliamentary reform, retrenchment of expenditure, and an effective reduction
229Lord Nugent
 said, that ever since he had the honour of a seat in the House, it had been considered as part of its courtesy, that when any gentleman stated a circumstance as a fact within his own personal knowledge, he should be free from any positive contradiction, especially on such loose grounds as those assumed by the hon. member for Surrey. He thought, that an apology was due to the worthy alderman.Lord Nugent
ll275274 thought it impossible to contemplate the provision intended for her majesty previous to her marriage, as that by which the House should be regulated after what had lately passed
ll275274Mr. Holme Sumner
 said, that he had spoken from general rumour, and that as the hon. alderman was not an accredited agent of her majesty, he must still continue under his former impression.Mr. H. Sumner
 said, that if the learned gentleman could declare, after inquiry to-morrow, that every bill had been paid off, he would readily give up his opinion, and be most happy to hear the statement. As for the worthy alderman's assurance, he could not think it more certain than the rumour which had reached him.Mr. H. Sumner
 rose to order. The assertion that the gentlemen on his side of the House agitated and inflamed the country, merely for the sake of getting into place, could not, by possibility, be orderly.Mr. Tierney
254ll253l. —What! did the noble lord mean to say, that the omission of her name was no aspersion on her character? Was the manner in which he had treated the proceedings and their result no aspersion? Or did the noble lord think, to advert to another part of his speech, that the course he was adopting was of a nature to tranquillize the public mind? The noble lord seemed to think that 50,000254ll253lMr. Tierney
252251l250249248247246245 said, that after the observations which had been made in the course of his speech, by the noble lord who had just sat down, he felt it incumbent to offer a few words. Indeed, he would acknowledge, that on no former occasion had he ever felt so desirous to address the House. He had taken the liberty of calling the noble lord to order when he said, that all the objection which had originated on the opposition side of the House was intended or calculated to disturb the quiet of the country; and he should the rather address himself to the noble lord now, because the noble lord seemed on these occasions to have some personal quarrel with him and to attack him, as a person at all times willing to disturb and embarrass the operations of ministers, in his eagerness to obtain place himself, and to expel the noble lord and his colleagues from it. Now, he would not stoop to the meanness and little deception of saying, that he was not ambitious. He had always held those persons cheap who affected to despise proper and honourable rewards, which the possession of office conferred on him whose talents were dedicated to the performance of its duties; and not less so, those who thought, that the acceptance of office necessarily implied a violation of political integrity and connexions. For himself, he knew of no bond by which power could be gained, no connexion by which success could be ensured, but the
252251l250249248247246245Mr. Tierney
 said, that this was a petition signed by a number of respectable persons. As to the first point, whatever had been the conduct of his majesty's ministers on this subject was not now the question; they had already pledged themselves not to institute any further hostile proceedings, and so far the prayer of the petition was answered. As to the second, he could assert, without having any intention of overturning the present government, that from the first day that he heard of the order in council, by virtue of which the name was erased, he was adverse to it. But, that having been once done, the consideration of the subject was placed upon different grounds, and he agreed with parliament on the subject. For his own part, he could wish that the law had been more clearly defined, and would suggest, as the better mode of getting rid of the difficulties connected with the subject, that an address should be presented to the throne, praying, that measures might be taken to give permanent insertion in the prayers to the names of all the royal family.Mr. Vernon
267 said, that in his opinion, it was the duty of the House to proceed into the committee, and to grant that sum which should be thought proper, leaving to the Queen to receive it or not. They would thus say to the Queen, "We have made liberal provision for your majesty; we have ordered it to be paid over into the exchequer; and whether you receive it or not, there it remains at your disposal." The hon. gentleman Said, that he would give no opinion upon the proceedings against the Queen; but he thought it the duty of every gentleman who had a sug-
267Mr. Bright
 observed, that some persons seemed to be under a great delusion on this subject, and to consider that all who in their addresses to his majesty had not expressed themselves hostile to the proceedings against her Majesty, were in favour of those proceedings, which was any thing but the fact. He had yet to see an address in which those proceeding were favourably spoken of. The hon. baronet had said, that the people of this country would return to their senses, and, that the people of Scotland were about to take the lead in that return. It was not to be endured, that the people should be told, that all ranks, from the highest to the lowest, were mad. Such was not the respectful and conciliatory manner in which the people of a great nation ought to be treated. If they really were out of their senses, that was not the most effectual way to bring them back to a sane mind.Mr. Brougham
266265264 said, the subject had been so amply and so ably discussed, and the speech of the noble lord had been so fully answered by his right hon. friend, that he would not have said a single word, but have left the House to pursue its own course, had it not been for one or two observations which had fallen from his hon. friend who had last spoken. He could not sit silent when those observations were made. But he must urge, on the part of her majesty, that she had been not only virtually acquitted, but acquitted in every sense of the word, and that a most perverse judgment on her cause had appeared in more parts of the House than one, and just now had been pronounced from a quarter where he least suspected it. He would remind his hon. friend of the purport of his remarks, and he would ask him, whether he had dealt fairly by the Queen and allowed her common justice? At the commencement and during the whole course of the proceedings against her majesty, every thing was wrong that she did, and every thing was right that was done against her. At the commencement of the trial—at the different stages, whether she claimed the rights of justice, or whether, at its conclusion she required those privileges, which its commencement had furnished grounds for denying—all met with the disapprobation of his hon. friend. When, after her acquittal, mat-
266265264Mr. Brougham
237 rose, and said, that he had received her majesty's commands to present to the House the following message:—237Mr. Brougham
l279 said, that the language used by the hon. member for Surrey was the occasion of his addressing the House again that evening. The hon. member had objected to the worthy alderman's explanation, because he was not an accredited agent of her majesty. This was the usual trick with gentlemen on the other side of the House. They talked of her majesty as if she were an independent sovereign, not as' if she were only like themselves—a mere subject. They looked upon her legal advisers as responsible for her conduct. Now, he would inform them, as he had had occasion to inform them before, that her majesty was responsible for her own conduct. She had, it was true, her legal advisers; and he and his hon. colleagues, as to matters of law, were, if he might use a figure of speech, her responsible advisers. Nothing, in his opinion, could be more correct than the manner in which the worthy alderman had just come forward. As' for himself, though he had been in situations where he was likely to hear of such rumours as had been adopted as facts by the hon. member for Surrey, he must say, that he had never heard of them from any thing like creditable authority, until the present evening. The worthy alderman asserted, that there was no truth in them, and he, for one, believed his assertion. As to the law expenses, of which it might be expected that he should know something, he would merely say, that they were submitted to as strict an audit as any other species of public accounts. The sums to defray
l279Mr. Brougham
 thought the subject worthy of mature consideration, as its determination might be the means of abridging the right of petition. It appeared to him, that this was merely a petition from private individuals who slated themselves to belong to a certain society. He did not wish to depreciate any opinion which had the sanction of the Chair, but he really thought, they ought not to decide hastily on this question.Mr. Abercromby
235ds expressed his astonishment at the signal indiscretion of the learned lord, in maintaining, that the county meetings in Scotland expressed; the sense of the people of property in Scotland. This was by no means the case. In one of the largest counties, there were only two or three hundred persons called freeholders, who had a right to vote; and many of them (like himself in two counties) had not a single acre of land. In a small book, which might be bought for 2235dsMr. Abercromby
 said, the noble lord who spoke last and the right hon. gentleman had charged his noble friend with expressing an opinion as to the guilt of her majesty. Now, he had certainly not understood his noble friend to express any opinion on the subject. His noble friend had endeavoured to keep the question of guilt or innocence as much as possible out of the view of the House, lint even if his noble friend had expressed such an opinion, he saw no reason why the noble lord opposite should be offended, or why he (Mr. Browne) should not be equally offended, when the noble lord, talked of the innocence of one, against whom u bill of divorce and degradation had been read a second time, after an elaborate defence, which some thought a most triumphant, and others a most weak and inconclusive defence? And had he not a right to feel equally indignant at hearing the noble lord talk of the innocence of one who, as far as the inquiry went, had been declared guilty of nearly the highest offence known to the laws of the land? Such was the person to whom the House was now called upon to pay the same marks of respect, in point of allowance, as had been paid to our late virtuous queen Charlotte. He confessed, that a host of feelings were roused in Ins breast, when this contrast was unavoidably brought to his mind between one of the best and most virtuous queens consort that ever lived, and one who, to say no more, was suspected of not being quite so good. The noble lord opposite had dwelt much upon what was due to economy, and certainly this was the time for practising it. He should therefore be glad to vote for a smaller sum; for, in his opinion, as the Queen was not to have a palace, and the other appurtenances belonging to a Queen Consort, he thought the provision was greater than was necessary for her expences; and there was reason to apprehend, that the overflowings of their bounty might be diverted into very different channels from those to which it was intended to be applied.Mr. J. Browne
270 observed, that in what he should say respecting the conduct of her majesty, he confined himself solely to what had taken place since her majesty's arrival in this country. It was with diffidence he disagreed with the noble lord in the amount of the sum proposed for her majesty's use; but there were some circumstances in the conduct of her majesty which made him think, that so large a sum ought not to be granted. He did not view this as a question of mere economy, nor did he speak
270Mr. Stuart Wortley
 said, he should be very sorry to misquote, but the impression on his mind was, that the answers of her majesty to many of the addresses were very nearly if not quite seditious. He should, in consequence of what had fallen from the hon. gentleman, move, when the House resumed, an address to the king, praying, that a copy of her majesty's letter might be laid before them. The House would then be able to form a judgment, whether the charge made was without foundation or not.Mr. Stuart Wortley
226 said, he saw the vote of the other night in a very different point of view from that in which the lion, members had seen it who preceded him. So far from its being in direct contravention of public opinion it was a powerful expression of the public wishes on that subject. He begged, that he might not be misrepresented in what he had just said. He knew well in what manner the feeling of the country had been excited on the question; but if he were to be asked what was the wish of the country upon it, he would say, that it was, that the matter should be put entirely at rest, without any further persecution of her majesty, but with a strict care, at the same time, that her majesty should not triumph over any other party. In the vote which had been given on a former night, gentlemen had not looked so much at the justice or injustice of the particular question then before them, as to the point to which it was directed; and it was impossible to deny, that those who had voted for it had wished to use it as a means for turning out the present ministers and putting others into their places. Now, he
226Mr. Stuart Wortley
 observed, that the meeting at Edinburgh, had assembled in the theatre because no other room would have been sufficient for their accommodation; and even as it was, above 3,000 persons were unable to obtain an entrance. As to the signatures to the petition, they were accompanied with the place of abode of the individual; so that if any such practice had been resorted to, as that alleged by the learned lord, it might easily be detected. The other address had been got up in secret, the promoters of it not daring to face a public meeting of the inhabitants. It lay on the table of the council-chamber for several weeks, and, after every possible effort, it received only l,600 signatures. The population of Edinburgh was about 110,000. The petition complaining of ministers, particularly with reference to their conduct towards her majesty, had 17,000 signatures. He would leave the House to judge, what were the real sentiments of the inhabitants of Edinburgh. In the most remote corners of Scotland, where political discussion had never before taken place, a strong feeling had manifested itself on this subject; and, as to county meetings, the learned lord had greatly overstated the fact. He (Mr. Grant) had attended the meeting of the county in which he resided. So far was it from comprehending the property of the county, that, of only thirty-three gentlemen who were present, but fifteen possessed a single acre of land in the county; and, on casting up their rentals, he found that they did not average a thousand pounds a-year a-piece.Mr. J. P. Grant
 said, that he last year postponed his motion from a feeling, that in the then state of the country, the subject was not likely to meet with that calm and serious discussion which it required. For the same reason, he now gave notice, that he would, on the 10th of April, bring his motion, as, by that time, he trusted the question might be introduced with the best hope of success which it was ever likely to have in that House.Mr. Lambton
 presented a petition from Durham signed by 3,340 inhabitants and agreed to at one of the most respectable meetings he had ever seen. The petitioners expressed their disgust at the late proceedings against her majesty. They also prayed for an inquiry into the proceedings of the Milan Commission. It was needless for him to say, that he gave his support to the contents of the petition.Mr. Lambton
 said, he had voted the other night for the insertion of her majesty's name in the Liturgy, and his reason for so doing was, that she had been prayed for as princess of Wales, and he considered, that her name, when she became Queen, had been omitted unconstitutionally and without trial. He had treated the question as an abstract one, without reference to the guilt or innocence of her majesty.Mr. Butterworth
 also presented a similar petition from the Incorporation of weavers of Leith. He understood, this petition had been forwarded to the hon. member for Edinburgh, who had refused to present it. No doubt the hon. member could satisfactorily explain this circumstance. For himself, he could conceive nothing more culpable than the refusal of any honourable member to present to the House, a petition, not improper in itself, from his constituents.Mr. Hume
 begged to read the applications which had been made to the right hon. gentleman to present the petition, and his answer, and then to leave the House to judge how far the explanation was satisfactory. The application was, as the right hon. gentleman had observed, two-fold. The first part requested, that he would present the petition as early as possible; the second, that the corporation would consider itself honoured if he would favour the petition with his support. Such was the application. The answer was this, "I cannot present the petition you have sent me." Then came a full stop; after which, the letter proceeded, "Should any proposition be made for the restoration of the Queen's name to the Liturgy, I shall certainly oppose it." And this was the whole of the letter. He left it, therefore, to the House to judge, whether the former was not a direct and unconditional refusal to present the petition.Mr. Hume
 knew, that such an assertion had been made, but, from the best inquiry he could make, he believed there was no foundation for that statement.Mr. Hume
272 rose to reply to the observation of the hon. member for Yorkshire, amidst cries of question! and considerable coughing. Silence being partially restored, the hon. member said, that some quotations which had been used on a recent occasion, as from the letter and answers of the Queen, were grossly inaccurate. The hon. alderman and others who had alluded to those extracts, had taken them most unfairly [Hear, hear, and continued coughing]. The hon. member said, that notwithstanding this indisposition to hear the truth, he would go on, and if hon. gentlemen were impatient, he should feel it his duty to read the whole of the answers, in order to show, that the quotations were incorrect. He admitted, that the language in some of her majesty's answers was strong, but it was possible to put an improper construction even upon the holy scriptures,
272Mr. Hume
 said, he conceived the noble lord to have been disorderly, in imputing to her majesty, that she had been travelling into unconstitutional errors, and that she claimed the allegiance of the people as her subjects.Mr. Hume
 to order, said, they had a right to know whether the noble lord meant what he said, or knew what he did mean ["Order! Chair!"].Mr. Hume
223 presented thirty-two petitions from the City of York, praying for parliamentary reform. The petitioners were under an erroneous in a pression, that an act of Charles the second made it illegal to attach more than 20 signatures to a petition for parliamentary reform, and therefore it was, that such a number of petitions had been presented. They prayed, for a restoration of trienmial parliaments,
223Mr. Wyvill
 regretted, that the gentlemen who professed themselves so anxious to save the public money, had not reminded the House, that this was the first time, that a separate allowance had been asked for a Queen Consort. Till the present time, the queen had been always considered part of the royal household, and all the expenses incident to the situation of a queen consort had been paid out of the Civil List. He did not wish to curtail the Crown of any thing-essential to its honour or its splendor, but he begged leave to remark, that the splendor of the Crown and the honour of the Crown were not always synonymous terms. The Crown was in possession of the revenues of the duchy of Cornwall, of the 4½ per cent duties, of the droits of Admiralty; and it would have been more consistent with those large professions of economy so often heard from ministers, if they had applied some of these sources of revenue to the support of the Queen; or at least, if they had given up the droits to the use of the public.Mr. Lennard
 observed upon the inconvenience of sending back a petition to a remote part of the kingdom for the purpose of being re-modelled, during which time the measure against which it petitioned might be passed, and thus the object of the petitioners be defeated.Mr. Denman
230 presented a petition from Sutton Ashfield, praying for the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy. He thought, if those various petitions were seriously considered, instead of being merely left to the officer of the House, who was nearly exhausted by the labour of reading them, they would produce a considerable impression, even on the minds of those members who were most adverse to the cause of her majesty. With respect to the striking the Queen's name out of the Liturgy, he took precisely the same view that had been taken by his learned friend (Mr. Wetherell) on a former evening. He considered that measure as a most gross and irreparable injury to her majesty, because it was prejudging her cause, and inflicting punishment before any offence was substantiated. He also was of opinion, that it was most injurious to the character of the high tribunal before which her majesty was to be tried; because many of those who constituted her judges could not come unbiassed to the trial, they having previously, by sanctioning the erasure of her majesty's name from the Liturgy, expressed an opinion on her conduct. But, above all, he considered, that, in a constitutional point of view, it tended to injure the monarch of these realms; because, standing in the situation of husband to this illustrious and unfortunate female, it was impossible, looking to the persecution which she had undergone, but that imputations would be cast on him, however unjustifiable they might be. Ministers had, indeed, on every occasion, stated, that all the responsibility of those measures rested on them. Why did they so frequently make this statement? No man could doubt that they were the responsible parties. When he heard this ostentatious parade of responsibility, it appeared to him, that it arose merely from an indulgence in the unjustifiable hope, that, by constantly recurring to the topic, they would lead individuals to believe,
230Mr. Denman
 said, he had to present another petition from the Amicable Society of Nottingham; the prayer of which was similar to that of the petition that had just been laid on the table. The petitioners farther prayed the House, if ministers so far forgot their duty as to persist in the proceedings against the Queen, that they would withhold the supplies of the year, until her majesty was restored to that situation to which her birth, her marriage, and the wishes of the people of England entitled her.Mr. Denman
 said, he had felt no wish to refuse the mere presentation of the petition alluded to. But, in the application made to him, two different points were stated:—first, he was asked to present the petition; and secondly, he was called on, to give it all the support in his power. His sentiments were not in unison with those contained in the petition; and therefore if he had presented it, the petitioners, might have turned round and said, "If we knew, that you would have opposed the prayer of the petition, we would have placed it in other hands." He had presented many petitions which contained matter not congenial with his own opinions; but it would be too much to expect that he should also support them.Mr. W. Dundas
 also expressed his willingness to leave it to the House to judge upon the subject; and repeated, that his object had been to give the petitioners an opportunity of choosing a warmer advocate.Mr. W. Dundas
263262 wished the question had not been brought forward. It would be exceedingly difficult, he thought, for his majesty's ministers to justify the course
263262Mr. W. Lamb
 said, he was sure the House would think he was wanting in his duty if he did not interpose. Allowance was, of course, to be made for any slip in debate; but nothing could be more disorderly than to put it hypothetically, whether an honourable member meant what he said.The Speaker
 said, that it was disorderly to refer to a former debate, he did not conceive, that the noble lord had referred to any particular member. But, if allusion was made to a former debate, which too frequently happened, and if misrepresentations arose, it was more regular and convenient to make it a matter of explanation than of order.The Speaker
 said, the hon. member would, he thought, perceive that this was rather a matter for correction than a question of order.The Speaker
 said, he was waiting for the conclusion of the noble lord's sentence, to inform him, that it was not in order to speak of any hon. member's affecting to deplore the distresses of the country.The Speaker
 said, the learned gentleman would feel that it was not necessary to the statement of a point of order to recapitulate a former debate.The Speaker
 said, the learned member should state the point on which he rose to order.The Speaker
 observed, that the suggestion he had made to the House was not to decide the question. He merely called the attention of the House to the difficulty of the case, and therefore suggested the propriety of sanctioning the alteration he had recommended rather than involve the House in those inconveniences which he had indicated as the probable consequences of receiving the petition in its present shape.The Speaker
222 begged to draw the attention of the House to this subject. A similar petition had been presented a few days since, but it was withdrawn. The question was not as to the wording of the petition, but as to the right of any society to present such petitions. He meant no objection to the society in question; but it was for the House to consider whether they were to receive petitions from societies unknown to the law. He was not aware, that there existed any precedent for receiving such petitions; but he, begged to call the attention of the House to the inconvenience, which would arise from such a regulation, however harmless the petition might be in itself. There were many such societies in this, and a much greater number in the sister kingdom. What, then, would be the feelings excited on receiving petitions from the Orange men, the Peep-of-day-boys, the White-boys, and the other slang names by which societies were designated? This, then, was the proper period for considering the question. The name of this society could not, of itself, give any offence to any party. He threw it out for the considera-
222The Speaker
228 commented on the charges of disloyalty which had been brought against the people for their conduct during the late prosecution of the Queen; and said, that to degrade the king by insulting his Queen was now considered the best proof of loyalty. The present was styled the age of revolution; and he should not be surprised if ministers had adopted their recent proceed-
228Sir Francis Blake
 declared, that the great mass of the persons of landed property in Scotland, were decidedly friendly to ministers. He allowed, that among those classes of the people least informed on the subject, there was a strong feeling in favour of her majesty. Knowing, however, the good sense of his countrymen, be had no doubt, that they would soon come back to their senses; and he trusted the people of England would follow their example.Sir G. Warrender
236 presented a similar petition from the parish of St. Saviour, Southwark. Having attended that meeting, lie could vouch for its respectability. The proceedings of that meeting had received the sanction of many who had never before
236Sir R. Wilson
 concurred with the hon. member for Yorkshire, in thinking, that the wish of the country was, that the question of the Queen should be set at rest for ever, and that there should be no triumph over another party; But in saying this, he could not help observing, that the hon. member had presumed resistance in another party; for if there were no resistance, there could be no triumph. Now, he believed, that there was no resistance in the quarter to which allusion had been made; and he called upon the noble lord opposite and his colleagues to declare, whether the non-restoration of the Queen's name to the Liturgy was or was not, he would not merely say ministerially, but personally, their own act. He was sure, that the noble lord, undeterred by any obloquy that might befal the advisers of the measure, would say, that it was ministers who had advised it, and would confess, that the act of reinstating her majesty's name in the Liturgy—an act fervently prayed for by millions—would have been, nay actually was performed, had it not been for their interference. He therefore wished to remind gentlemen, when they were opposing the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy, that they were not respecting the feelings of a certain quarter, but the feelings of men who had shown themselves perfectly incapable to manage the interests of a great and powerful nation.Sir R. Wilson
 was decidedly against receiving the petition in its present form: he thought the admission of such a petition would be productive of calamitous consequences.Sir John Newport
 opposed the re ception of petitions from any lodges or societies not known to the law.Sir W. De Crespigny
232 confessed, that when the right hon. member made his first speech, he thought he had not been dealt fairly by. In that speech, he merely stated, that he had informed the petitioners, that he could not support their petition, and that he had explained the reasons which induced him to give them the opportunity of choosing another member to present it. But then came the unfortunate letter; which was totally at variance with the
232Lord Milton
 rose, to entreat, that his hon. friend would forbear from carrying into effect the notice which he had given. The difference which had taken place between that hon. member and the member for Montrose was too slight to render such a measure necessary; particularly when it must be the inclination, as it certainly was the duty, of the House, to heal rather than to inflame.Lord Milton
 begged leave to ask the chancellor of the Exchequer, when the country might expect the issue of the Bank Notes on the new plan to prevent imitation? The convictions which had taken place within the last six months for the crime of forgery, and the still increasing practice of the falsification of bank notes, made it quite necessary, that the public should be informed when they were to expect relief from so enormous an evil. He wished, therefore, to ascertain what was the precise time fixed, after so many delays, for satisfying, upon this point, the expectation of the country.Mr. Grenfell
 said, he was aware of the great importance of adopting, as speedily as possible, some plan for diminishing the facility with which bank notes were at present forged. The House would, at the same time see, that it was equally important to avoid any premature or inefficient measure, the introduction of which could only serve to aggravate the existing evils. Although the plan was certainly not brought to a completion, he had the satisfaction to state, that considerable progress had been made—a progress, however, which did not enable him to answer the hon. gentleman's question as to the exact period when the new notes would be ready for circulation.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
287 said, he certainly did un-
287Mr. Grenfell
 declared, that every facility and encouragement had been afforded to the most able artists; but it ought not to be forgotten, that what one artist could execute another might at least imitate. It was nevertheless hoped, that with the aid of powerful machinery and a succession of varied improvements, a great degree of success might be attained. He had never been so sanguine as to calculate on complete success; but one plan which promised to be very efficacious was now under consideration, although it had not, perhaps, reached the last stage of improvement. He concurred in thinking, that the evil of some further delay must be less than that of taking any step prematurely.Mr. Davies Gilbert
 admitted the impossibility of obtaining from one artist, that which another could not imitate. He was willing to allow, that a note might be made more difficult to imitate than the present one, which indeed afforded peculiar facilities to the forger. But he would caution the House against entertaining the erroneous idea, that any note could be made, which it was impossible to imitate. He implored the House to remember, that as long as the present notes remained in circulation, the bank held the power of life and death in their hands.Mr. Bennet
 agreed, that it was not possible to make a bank note which should be absolutely inimitable, but trusted, that from the ingenuity of the plan now adopting, from the powerful machinery which it would require, and the other resources not within the means of ordinary forgers, it would be as difficult to imitate the notes thus manufactured, as it would be to imitate the coin of the realm, when executed in the most able style.Mr. D. Gilbert
283l was desirous of offering a few remarks on the petition now before the House, chiefly in relation to the conduct of the high sheriff of Northumberland in refusing to call a county meeting. He was astonished, that any person filling such an office should have ventured upon a weak or frivolous or no pretext at all, to decline assembling the county, after a requisition so signed. The property of the requisitionists, did not amount to less than 200,000283lMr. Bennet
contre-projet295294293à fortiori292291 said, that what the right hon. baronet had stated to the House went to the form and not to the substance of the case. He did not object to the paper generally, but to certain passages that were contained in it; because there were many parts of that address against which no complaint could possibly be made. His motion, therefore, went rather to the condemnation of particular passages, than to the disapproval of the publication entirely. He hoped, that the right
contre-projet295294293à fortiori292291Lord Castlereagh
 said, that the publication of the address arose entirely from inadvertence, and as soon as possible an apology was made for inserting it in the Gazette. The right hon. baronet should, injustice, have quoted the latter part of his (Mr. B's) speech on the first night of the session. He then stated, that the address appeared merely through inadvertence, and without the sanction of his majesty's ministers On the ground of the circumstance having been occasioned by inadvertence, and on that ground alone, he conceived the House ought to pass it over.Mr. Bathurst
311 said, that he did not often trouble the House, but upon this occasion, which was no common one, when a large sum of money was to be voted for the use of the Queen, representing, as he did, a large and respectable portion of the community, he could not refrain from offering his sentiment. Although the question of guilt had not been tried in that House, it had been decided elsewhere; and he had a right to express his opinion regarding the testimony received in another place. He knew, that it was not regular to refer more minutely to what had already passed, but he could put his hand upon his heart and say, as a representative of the British people, that from the evidence taken elsewhere, and from the whole complexion of the case, he was satisfied that the Queen was guilty of the charges brought against her. Neither the taunts of power within, nor the clamour of the people without doors, should deter him from so asserting. He would apologize if he felt he was proceeding one step beyond the line of mode ration. On a question of this kind, where the feelings of the country were agitated from one end of the kingdom to the other, he could not help participating in those feelings. As a representative of the people, when a large sum was proposed to be voted to the Queen, he had a right to oppose it and to support a reduction of the grant. He was in favour of a smaller sum; because he did not like the mode in which the public money already placed in the hands of the Queen had been disposed of, and he knew not what the consequences might be of putting so large a grant in the power of such an individual. He had
311Sir T. Lethbridge
317, in referring to the questions of the worthy alderman, said, that when the worthy alderman challenged him to produce the written copies of her majesty's answers the worthy alderman should have recollected, that he was not in the service or confidence of her majesty, and that therefore the worthy alderman was holding out a challenge which it was impossible that he should accept. He was, however, quite willing to allow, that the part of the publication to which he referred was more laughable than serious, and that the rhodomontade of talking of her subjects was merely despicable when compared with the more dangerous parts. The worthy alderman now denied the authenticity of those addresses; but he
317Lord Castlereagh
316her"her315 said, that he could not sit still when statements were made which he had it in his power to contradict. He had now to ask the hon. member, who had declared his belief that her majesty's bills to her tradesmen were not paid, whether, in answer to his challenge of yesterday, he was ready to produce any one demand of that kind? He would pause for a moment for a reply.—As the hon. member for Surrey would give no answer, he should proceed. They now saw what the reports of the hon. member were worth. They had heard other insinuations arising out of reports from the hon. member for Somersetshire, who alleged, that money had been sent to an individual at Paris, who was said to have been living in a style of splendor at Paris. Now he challenged that hon. member to produce one proof, that one shilling had been sent to that individual; he challenged him also to shew what, if true, was easily proved, that Bergami was living in the style which had been spoken of. He was in Paris at the call of the gentlemen who were her majesty's law advisers, ready to be produced as an evidence if It was thought necessary. He was at Paris solely for that purpose; and if the House had dared to have goue
316her"her315Mr. Alderman Wood
 said, he only rose to say a few words in corroboration of what had been stated by the hon. baronet as to the style and manner of Bergami's living at Paris. He happened to be there for a few weeks during the stay of Bergami, who had been pointed out to him in an equipage as splendid as that of any person in that capital. In the quarter of the city in which he lived, he believed there was no person who supported a larger establishment. As to the amount of his funds, and whence he got them, or whether he paid for his establishment, those were matters of which he knew nothing; he could only speak as to his manner of living. It appeared to him, however, that the Queen had a right to spend her money as she pleased, either abroad or in this country: and therefore he should say nothing further on the subject.Lord Lowther
323 said, that many reasons, had hitherto induced him to support the smaller, rather than the larger sum; but on further consideration, he had thought
323Mr. Forbes
 said, it was generally believed, that the words had been used. They had not been denied. In what sense they were used he could not take upon himself to say.Mr. Forbes
305lllllll304 considered the House and the country much indebted to his hon. friend, for moving for the production of these papers at so early a period of the session. He was happy to hear the right lion, gentleman say, that he should not require any more loans. The right hon. gentleman did not say, whether or not it was
305lllllll304Mr. Grenfell
306 expressed his desire rather to wait for regular opportunities to discuss these important subjects, than to enter upon a premature and imperfect exposition of them in the shape of answering questions. He would, however, reply shortly to one or two points. With respect to the increase of expense in the collection of the Irish revenue, it was apparent and not real. It arose simply from the practice of bringing the whole forward as a charge on the public, instead of, as heretofore, laying it on the fees of merchants. Now, to the principal question put to him by the hon. gentleman, he had distinctly to state, that the public debt would not be increased by any means or in any way whatever this year. No stock whatever would be created, and what was outstanding at present, was, he affirmed, no more than was consistent with the public conveniency and service. The subject of the Sinking Fund had been often discussed; and he continued to be of the same opinion he had ever been upon it. He held, that it was far wiser to persevere in the present system which was well and practically understood, than to unsettle, under the name of simplification, the whole method with which public accountants were conversant. When the time came, that the Sinking Fund rose above what might be considered a sufficient sum for the gradual reduction of the national debt, then it might be desirable to adopt, with the surplus, the simplification now contended for; but, till that period arrived, he preferred going on in a known way; for so long as our revenue was fluctuating, which from its nature it must always be, there must, under whatever form it appeared, be an annual excess or diminution, liable to all the objections urged against the present system, at whatever sum the Sinking Fund was fixed. As to the deficiency in the Consolidated Fund, he still entertained the hope he had expressed, that it might be got over by the progress of the revenue. At all events, he could not be persuaded by the hon. gentleman (Mr. Grenfell), that it would be wiser to leave the public money in the hands of the Bank for its advantage, than to borrow from that body at a low rate of interest, while government received a larger interest for its own fund. The saving to the country in this respect
306The Chancellor of the Exchequer
llllllllll said, he was perfectly aware, that during the last quarter of the year 1819, 500,000llllllllllMr. Maberly
307 could not imagine any
307Mr. Baring
 wished to state the grounds upon which he had expressed a confident expectation of improvement in the revenue. During the latter half of the last year the revenue had improved above any half-year which he ever remembered; and consequently, as the last half-year was so productive, there was every reason to believe, that the revenue would continue to improve. With respect to what had fallen from the hon. gentleman, on the propriety of a simplification of the public accounts, that might certainly be in some degree to be wished; but the House ought also to be aware of the great evils that must ensue from an alteration in all the old forms. Such a measure would render them perplexed and unintelligible, and the whole for a century past must be new-modelled, to enable them to draw a comparison between any past year and that in which they were. He preferred going on in the way which use and experience had rendered clear and applicable to the general service.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
308 inquired, whether the national business was to be impeded, because the Chancellor of the Exchequer had got a complicated system of accounts? For his own part, he knew many persons who were fully competent to understand
308Mr. Philips
 suggested, that the debate should be adjourned till to-morrow, in order to give the right hon. baronet an opportunity to adopt a proper form of words.Lord Castlereagh
 observed, that it ought to be recollected, that the insertion of the address in the Gazette was not the only mischief. It had thence been copied in to the country papers, so that the people at large were induced to believe, that the sentiments which it contained, had been graciously received by his majesty. He was the last man to think of visiting, with severe punishment, any carsasms such as those in question; but, when the gentlemen opposite seemed disposed to exercise, to their extent, all the privileges of the Crown, it was necessary to provide an adequate counteraction by the firm maintenance of the privileges of that House.Mr. Gordon
llldsl301llll300lllbonâ fidel299ll rose, in consequence of the notice he had given, to move for certain papers relative to the Revenue. The subject which he was about to bring under the consideration of the House, was one of primary importance;—it was a subject closely interwoven with the prosperity of the country; and by a due attention to which, they could alone hope to alleviate the distresses of the people. The papers he meant to move for were seven. He should call for the production, not only of the amount of revenues for the current but the past year, and also for an account of the management of the public expenditure and a variety of other papers connected with the financial state of the country. To the amount of the expenses of collecting the revenue he should particularly call the attention of the House. The expenditure was enormous beyond all calculation. In the year 1792, the expenditure was 7,800,000llldsl301llll300lllbonâ fidel299llMr. Maberly
302 said, that he saw no objection to the production of the accounts moved for by the hon. gentleman or to the inquiries which he seemed disposed to connect with these documents. As there would be other opportunities of considering this subject, it was unnecessary for him now to anticipate discussion, by entering into any explanation in detail; he should therefore reserve his observations until the accounts were regularly before the House. He might however, take the present opportunity of announcing, that the whole ex-
302The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 contended, that if, after what had passed, any man were allowed in that House to say, that the Queen was guilty, it was a place where every principle of law and justice, was disregarded! on every principle of law and justice the Queen stood precisely in the situation as if no charge had ever been exhibited against her; and if members were still to assert, that she was guilty, it would have been far better that the inquiry should have proceeded. Ministers had abandoned their bill because they could not prove its accusation; but, if every man was still at liberty to charge her majesty with the full commission of the crime, that abandonment might be looked upon but as an artifice to inflict a never-dying stigma, without a particle of evidence to support it.Mr. Western
 said, that the proposition before the House was, to vote a provision for the Queen, under existing circumstances, and he knew not how he was to give his vote without at the same time giving his opinion of the conduct of the Queen.Sir T. Lethbridge
l313ll rose to express his admiration of the zeal of the hon. gentlemen opposite in the cause of economy, and his hope that they would continue in that spirit, and exercise it impartially. Those honourable members expressed their indignation at the gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House who were willing to grant so large a sum as 50,000l313llMr. Maurice Fitzgerald
314l said, he would detail the motive for the vote which he had last night given, and which he should again give. He entirely concurred with respect to the allowance to be granted to her majesty, with the view of the noble lord (Castlereagh). The noble lord had stated, very distinctly, why 50,000314lMr. Sykes
 said, it was a pity, if Bergami could have been produced in the Commons, that he was not produced in the Lords. Her majesty's answers on her arrival, such as those from Dover and Canterbury, were fair tests of her majesty's sentiments; but more unfavourable inferences were to be drawn from those which she had afterwards delivered, and with which she had completely identified herself. As to the question of the Liturgy, he referred to the address of the House to queen Anne, in 1702, thanking her for her zeal for the protestant succession displayed in her inserting the name of the electress Sophia of Hanover in the Liturgy. After this could it be maintained, that the Crown was not authorised to omit as well as to introduce the name of that princess? And yet the House had returned thanks for that introduction. He conceived that that act of the House completely justified the present proceeding.Mr. Gipps
 said, he had objected to the grant of a large sum on the ground of the seditious tendency of her majesty's answers to the addresses she had received, and not on the ground, that her guilt had been established. He had explicitly said, that there was no ground of charge against her majesty, on account of the proceedings in the other House; but that on account of her answers to the addresses, and her message of yesterday, it would not be safe to place so large a sum of money at her disposal.Mr. H. Sumner
lll309ll said, that in pursuance of what had fallen from him last night, he should now propose, that the sum of 30,000lll309llMr. Holme Sumner
310llll said, that the House would immediately perceive, that he did not rise to oppose the amendment. Whether the sum were 50,000310llllMr. Brougham
 said, that he could not allow such a gross perversion of the words of his learned friend to pass unnoticed, as the House had just heard. But this misinterpretation had appeared heretofore, although it was more gross and perverted than any individual who was candid, could make of the words of any man. The fact was, that his learned friend had no such meaning in the words which he had used, as that which was imputed to him. But he was quite satisfied, that the last speaker had only repeated that, which the colouring of others had suggested to his mind, without any intention to misrepresent.Mr. Brougham
 said, he could distinctly state, that it was solely by his directions, with the concurrence of his learned colleagues, that Bergami had been brought to Paris. That person being resident on his farm in Italy, was brought to Paris in order to be in readiness, in case the bill should have come down to that House, and her majesty's counsel should have found it necessary to call him as a witness. That he asserted to be the fact. He had himself given the directions. As to that individual's scale of expense while living at Paris, he knew nothing; but this he knew, that if he spent a considerable sum of money in consequence of being called as a witness for the Queen, he was not the only person, either for or against the bill, who had incurred a considerable ex pence.Mr. Brougham
312 reprobated the manner in which the hon. baronet had introduced topics, founded upon rumours which he had heard out of doors, and in which there probably was not one tittle of truth. Her majesty had been all her life subjected to these base and malignant calumnies—these scandalous attempts to destroy her consequence and respectability in this country. As to the amount of provision for her majesty, anxious as he was on all occasions to save the public money, he thought it should be settled upon the same liberal scale as allowances to other branches of the royal family. Justice demanded that the Queen should be provided for with the same liberality as the rest of the royal family. No part of the country was suffering more severely than the part which he represented; but he should be ill-received among his constituents on his return, if he consented to this miserable retrenchment, intended as a punishment upon a Queen who had been acquitted. Was she to be concluded guilty when those who ought to have brought her before another tribunal did not dare to proceed? With respect to the message of her majesty to that House, he inclined to attribute it rather to her advisers than to her majesty herself. The resolution which it expressed was one in which he should be sorry that she should persevere. There was in it a magnanimity that met
312Mr. Curwen
 said, he had lately seen the model of a note intended for the use of a country bank, which he did not believe could be forged by any degree of art, and was of opinion, that the bank deserved much blame for not having encouraged the framer of it.Mr. Curwen
 presented a petition to the same effect from the town of Yarm. The gentleman who had put the petition into his hands had informed him, that with the exception of the postmaster and one or two individuals who lived upon the taxes, all the inhabitants of the town had concurred in the object of the petition; and he was informed, that if time had been allowed, every inhabitant of the town would have signed it, with the exceptions which he had before made.Mr. Lambton
, in presenting a similar petition from the county of Northumberland, trusted, that he might be allowed to say a few words regarding it, in consequence of the peculiar circumstances under which the meeting at which it was adopted had been convened. A requisition had been presented to the High Sheriff, signed by gentlemen of very large landed property in the county, desiring him to call a public meeting. To that requisition he had given a positive refusal, without assigning any reason for so doing. The requisitionists, in consequence, called a meeting on their own authority—and at that meeting agreed to this petition. The petitioners regarded the appointment of the Milan commission, and all the proceedings adopted under it, as deeply affecting the character of the British government; and with this opinion he entirely concurred. They likewise prayed, that a suitable provision should be made for her majesty, and that her name should be reinserted in the Liturgy, conceiving her entitled to all the dignities belonging to one filling her exalted station, and not convicted of any offence by which she had forfeited them.Mr. Beaumont
321320319 said, it was impossible, standing in the relation which he did towards the illustrious person who was the object of it, for him to give an opinion on the proposed grant; though he was conscious that in so doing he abandoned, in part, his duty to his constituents, who were anxious, in common with the whole country, that the more liberal vote should be supported. He felt it impossible, however, to hear the language which had been uttered on the other side, without drawing attention to it. He deemed it requisite to apologise to the House for approaching this subject with a degree of feeling which was excited by previous reflection on the conduct pursued towards her majesty from the beginning of the proceedings, in doors and out of doors, by the king's government and by their friends, which formed a series of persecution which he believed to be perfectly unparalleled in the history of the civilized world. That a majority of the peers came to a certain vote was true; that her majesty was convicted by any such vote he denied. The withdrawing of the bill was conclusive in favour of the Queen; because it was evident, that it was not withdrawn from any favourable feeling towards her, on the part of her accusers. It could only have been withdrawn because its patrons were satisfied, that they could not carry it, and that though they might triumph in the Lords, they could not succeed in the Commons. If prudential motives entered into the determination of the accusers, they deserved praise, but the accused should have the benefit of their determination. Pie had a right to consider the peers who came to a vote on that question, in their individual, not in their legislative capacity, and subject to have their opinions canvassed as mere individuals, for no law had been founded on their vote. Supposing then, that the bill had passed the House of Lords, and had come down to the Commons—and had been proceeded on in the temper which some gentlemen now evinced, could they have given an unbiassed judgment then—if now, when the bill had been thrown out, such illiberal opinions were founded on a rejected proceeding? He contended, that no member of that House had a right to found an opinion of the Queen's guilt on the result of that trial. Did they come now to argue the case over again, as on a motion for a new trial? He vowed to God, that he never expected to be called on to argue it again. Did they wish to argue
321320319Mr. Denman
322 said; he did not think it proper on the present occasion to discuss the guilt or innocence of the Queen, as proved by the proceedings in the Lords, but at the same time, he claimed the right of qualifying his vote by his conviction, or of forming his conviction from what had entered his mind, without referring to the particular sources of it. He thought, however, that since the proceedings of the Lords were at an end the ministers had acted quite correctly in giving the Queen the whole of her legal rights, according to their ideas of them. He considered the insertion of her name in the Liturgy as a matter of grace and favour; and as such he had refused it his
322Mr. Wilmot
 said, he had been made to assert the other night that, ministers intended to promote a revolution. What he had said was, that this was the age of revolutions, and he should not wonder if ministers produced one. There was a wide difference between an act intentionally committed, and that which was the effect of blindness. He did not think ministers would promote one intentionally, for the best of all reasons—self-preservation; it being obvious, that they would be the first sufferers by such an event. With regard to the sums proposed, instead of a smaller he should have been inclined to move a larger sum for her majesty, had not the situation of the country induced him to suspend his intention. The explanation given by a worthy alderman, that her majesty paid her bills every month, was an example well worthy of imitation in other quarters.Sir Francis Blake
281, before he presented a petition from Northampton, thought it requisite to make a few observations upon the manner in which it had been got up. The parties sent a requisition to the mayor, desiring him to call a public meeting of its inhabitants, to take into consideration the late proceedings against her majesty. The mayor refused to do so. The requisitionists in consequence issued a hand-bill calling such a meeting, and at that meeting the petition which he had to present, and which was signed by 1,600 persons, was adopted. He had presented to his majesty, at the levee, an address to a simi-
281Sir G. Robinson
297296 said, he would not have troubled the House with any observations on this occasion, if it had not been for what had fallen from the noble lord. He had very ingenuously put forward as the offender in this case, the unhappy Moderator who signed the address. That individual might be a very respectable person; and if it had been with him, that the selection of the address for publication had rested, the subject would, perhaps, have been unworthy of being brought before the House; but what gave a sting to this address was, that it found its way into the Gazette, a publication, under the immediate sanction of administration, and was stated to have been most graciously received by the Crown, One of the most important parts of the constitution of the House of Commons was, that the influence of his majesty's name, or the knowledge of his opinion, should have no effect in guiding their decisions; and for any man to state to his majesty any part of the debates of that House, and much more to characterize them, was highly unconstitutional. If there could be a greater breach of privilege than this, it was, that a minister of the Crown publicly stated
297296Mr. Scarlett
282 assured the House of the respectability of the individuals by whom this petition was subscribed. Many of them were persons of the greatest weight both from property and character. With regard to their prayer, its object had his hearty approbation. It was, indeed,
282Sir M. W. Ridley
 presented a similar petition from the borough of Leominster, in the county of Hereford. The sentiments expressed in the petition were, he believed, generally entertained in the county which he had the honour to represent. The late vote of the House, the most extraordinary to which he could have imagined it possible for a House of Commons to come, was, he believed, in direct opposition to the sentiments of nine-tenths of the whole community.Mr. Robert Price
, understanding, that there was no objection to his motion, moved for a copy of the circular despatch to his majesty's missions at foreign courts, dated from the Foreign Office, 19th January, 1821. The motion was agreed to, and, on the following day, was presented to the House by lord Castlereagh. The following is a copy of the said despatch:Sir Robert Wilson
298 assured the right hon. gentleman, that the noise which prevailed on the night he alluded to, was so great as to prevent him from hearing the whole of his explanation. Perhaps an entry to the following effect would meet the wishes of his learned friend:—After stating the paper to contain a breach of privilege, it might be added, "And it having been stated to the House, on the part of the secretary of state for the home department, that the paper was considered by him to be reprehensible, and that it got into the Gazette by mistake, it does not appear,
298Sir J. Newport
290289 observed, that in pursuance of the notice which he had given, he had now to bring under the consideration of the House what appeared to him a manifest and flagrant breach of those privileges which had been established, not for the benefit and protection of the House alone, but for those whom they represented. Instead of complaining at once, as he should have been justified in doing in such a case, he had given notice of His intention, in order to enable the parties to offer the best explanation in their power. The attack came from a quarter where it could hardly have been anticipated—it was made by persons in a respectable station of life, and, what was more singular, had received the marked approbation of his majesty's ministers. He was induced to call the attention of the House to it, because its tendency was, to embarrass and impair that freedom of speech by which they were entitled to discuss every public question without comment or censure, unless within those walls, and which had always been deemed one of their most valuable privileges. The members of that House had a right to deliver their sentiments without any reference to the approbation or censure of other persons. He could not so well express this principle as in the emphatic words of a declaration framed in that House by very eminent men, on the 3rd of May, 1810. [Here the right hon. baronet read the declaration alluded to.] The libel in question purported to to have been laid before the Crown, and was promulgated in the London Gazette on the 2nd of January last. It was headed by these words:—"The following address was presented to his majesty, who was pleased to receive it very graciously." Now, when the House should hear of what the address consisted, it would be of opinion, he conceived, that it was impossible the address could have been so communicated and received. He was sure, that the sovereign had been too carefully instructed in the principles of the constitution, to approve of any attack upon those who had made such remarks in the discussion of a public question as were suggested to them by the exercise of their parliamentary duty. If an impropriety was committed by any hon. member, it was for the House itself, through the Chair, to animadvert upon
290289Sir John Newport
303 said, he was in hopes, that the right hon. gentleman would have noticed some prospect of improving the net produce of the revenue, by a considerable diminution in the enormous expense of collecting it, upon which, most properly, great stress had been laid. He lamented the price of collection in Ireland, in particular, where the enormous increase of taxation, instead of being attended by a comparative reduction in the rate of
303Sir John Newport
lin statu quo said, that beyond the grounds upon which many gentlemen intended to support the original proposition, there was one additional reason for his concurring with it. That one reason was, that it was so worded, as that it neither imputed guilt nor asserted innocence. As the vote now stood, any new arrangements which might be hereafter made for her majesty would leave it lin statu quoSir T. D. Acland
 presented a similar petition from Liverpool. It was signed, he said, by 10,000 inhabitants. He could vouch for the respectability of many of the names. They prayed, that the question concerning the Queen should be agitated no longer, that she might be restored to all her rights and dignities, that inquiry should be made into the outrages at Manchester, the taxes diminished, and the people admitted to a larger share in the legislature than they at present enjoyed.Lord Sefton
335 could assure the House, that the presence of the hon. baronet had been the only cause of the tumult in question. Half an hour before the business began, the hon. baronet took a foremost seat on the hustings, and showed himself off in great style, bowing to all his friends, and telling them he wa6 very glad to see them. In all city meetings there was a little noise; but the hon. baronet had himself allowed, that the resolutions had been carried by a majority of three to one. The petition was read by the Lord Mayor himself, and in putting the question he did all in his power to be heard in so large an assembly, by holding up the petition and calling out, "This is the petition." He would venture to assert, that the majority) in favour of the petition was five to one. The hon. member who had just sat down
335Mr. Alderman Wood
337336 said, that having been present at this meeting, he felt himself called on to state to the House his impression of the facts as they occurred; and he must say, that a more unworthy combination never existed any where, for the purpose of preventing individuals from being heard, than he witnessed on that occasion—that combination, too, being formed by some of the most respectable persons in the city of London. The only way in which their conduct could be accounted for, had been let out by the hon. baronet in the course of his speech; namely, that public meetings were to be treated as a mere farce. He had learned from many persons, that the business of the meeting was obstructed by those very friends who, in the excess of their zeal, even prevented the hon. baronet himself from being heard. They had sent regular circulars to every part of the city, in order to collect together persons who would disturb the meeting; and every possible means was resorted to for the purpose of preventing the merchants and bankers from assembling publicly to speak their sentiments. He totally disagreed from the hon. baronet as to the general conduct that was observable at meetings of the merchants of London. No meetings were ever held, at which a greater degree of decorum prevailed. The hon. baronet might have seen some instances of a different kind, but they very rarely occurred. But for the combination, or conspiracy, to which he had adverted—this last meeting would like others, have passed off quietly and decorously. The hon. baronet asked, "what was the harm of this loyal decla-
337336Mr. Baring
 declared, that he had never witnessed more disorderly and disgraceful conduct than on the occasion in question. The exclusive loyalists and lovers of order were shouting, hissing, and adopting every other means of creating a tumult. He heard the conversation of some of those who were near him, and it ran on the impossibility of deliberation at a public meeting, and on the probability that that would be the last public meeting of the kind in the metropolis, and on similar topics. There was every appearance of a combination to create disorder. The hon. baronet's appearance was a signal for disorder; and he was not heard himself, in consequence of the noise which his friends made. He was surprised to hear the hon. baronet express a doubt whether the resolutions were carried. He was quite satisfied, that they were carried, by a majority of three to two. Ordered to lie on the table to be printed.Mr. G. Philips
 wished to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer, in the absence of the Secretary for Ireland, whether he was prepared to give any information as to the conduct of the Bank of Ireland, who, he understood, had refused to receive the coin of the realm as deposits? He was at a loss to comprehend on what grounds the Bank of Ireland did this. In local districts, bankers might do it with a view to discountenance the circulation of any thing but their own notes. Whatever the ground might be, it was necessary for the Government of the country to take some notice of it, as it contravened the intention of the government of the country with respect to the currency.Mr. Grenfell
 said, he was not enabled to give any information on this subject. The hon. member would be aware, that no one could refuse to receive the coin of the realm in payment. He did not know what difference there could be between payments and deposits. He was rather surprised at the statement, as bankers never refused money.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, it was no part of his official duty to take cognizance of the internal concerns, either of the Bank of Ireland or that of England. Those bodies were responsible to the laws, not to a minister. He had of course often occasion to correspond with both those banks.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
341 contended, that government were bound to watch over the proceedings of the Bank of Ireland. The right hon. gentleman had indeed said, that it was a private corporation, over which the law, not the government, had
341Mr. Baring
l said, he would take an early opportunity to communicate with the Bank of Ireland. It was difficult to conceive on what principle that bank could have refused to accept of gold coin. With a view to preparing for cash payments, nothing could be more acceptable than deposits in gold, for which the bank might issue their paper. The extent of issues by the commissioners under the late act, had certainly fallen short of the intention of the legislature, and did not exceed 100,000lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
344 would not enter into the merits of the increase of marines. That would be a good question when the estimates came before the House. But he would not consent to vote a single shil-
344Mr. Bennet
 expressed his surprise at the course which hon. gentlemen opposite thought fit to take. There scarcely was an instance in which the course of public business was attempted to be obstructed by such means. Let gentlemen refer to the journals for years back, and they would find, that, from time immemorial, the practice of parliament had been, to grant these preliminary notes without the estimates.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the question appeared to him to be, whether the naval forces of the country at present in actual employment were to be maintained or not. The supply now asked was for men actually in service. According to all former practice, of parliament they were bound to vote for the maintenance of the seamen in actual service.Mr. Marryat
 explained, that he would willingly consent to a vote for the maintenance of those seamen for a month. But it was demanded, in this vote, for a whole year, and it was to that he objected, before the House possessed the means of judging how far it might be expedient or necessary to keep up this force.Mr. Bennet
 expressed his opinion of the great use of a marine force. On that subject he concurred in what had been said by the hon. mover of the resolution, and he believed it to be true, that such was the opinion of most officers in the service, To prepare a proper corps of marines required great care and attention; for it was preposterous to suppose, that a marine could do his duty unless he had previously been accustomed to proper discipline. It would be well for the House to consider, that the navy had now arrived to a great extent, and that a corresponding increase of marine force ought of course to take place.Admiral Harvey
 entirely concurred in the propriety of keeping up an adequate corps of marines.Sir F. Ommaney
347 complained of the reductions which had been made of the naval force of the country, and the comparative neglect with which that branch of the
347Mr. Forbes
348 thought, that the committee had swerved widely from the question at issue. His hon. friend had objected to the vote on the ground that he had no estimate to direct his judgment, and in the propriety of that objection he fully concurred. The hon. baronet had said, that for many years it had been the practice to vote a sum for the expenses of a certain number of seamen on the word; of a lord of the Admiralty; and, if so, he thought it a practice "more honoured in the breach than the observance." It was certainly advisable, that some better mode should be adopted, and that the representatives of the people should be put in possession of a greater stock of knowledge before they came to a vote. There was another subject connected with the present vote which he could not pass over in silence. It was grievous to reflect, that the government, in the event of a war, would have to man the navy through the medium of impressment—would have
348Dr. Lushington
 said, that he had been at a loss, until that moment, to know upon what ground the hon. member had been occupying the time of the House for the last hour. The plan which he had adopted was not new, for about twenty years ago, two members of that House were in the constant practice of making similar motions.Mr. Bathurst
 thought it useless for the hon. member to speak when so few members were present, and therefore moved, that the House be counted.Mr. Bennet
 disclaimed the intention of arraigning any set of men for acting upon an old practice. But he hoped, that as we were likely to have many years of peace, that an endeavour would be made to devise some plan for getting rid of a practice so abhorrent to humanity.Dr. Lushington
342 observed, that paper in Ireland having become at a premium above the price of gold coin, persons had been under the necessity of incurring the expense of conveying gold coin to
342Mr. Ricardo
 said, that the freemen of Liverpool were more numerous than the hon. gentleman represented. They exceeded 5000, and no such influence as that alluded to existed in the corporation. Their influence was pretty much the same us that of other gentlemen in the town of wealth and respectability. The corporation, he believed, discharged their duties most conscientiously. All the business under their direction was done by contract; which must have the effect of lessening their influence at elections, if they should be disposed to employ it. He was not personally acquainted with many of those whose names were signed to the petition. He was not inclined to dispute the character and respectability of some; but then he must say that he had opportunities of knowing the sentiments entertained by many gentlemen and merchants of Liverpool of great wealth mid character who did not approve of this petition, but approved of the measures of government. Much was said of the hole-and-corner addresses agreed upon by some gentlemen; but, under the circumstances there was perhaps no other way of expressing their opinion. The party from whom this petition proceeded, applied to the principal magistrate to call a meeting, which was accordingly done. A proposition was made for an address of loyalty to the Crown, but those who were willing to support it, were put down by clamour.Mr. Gladstone
 said, it was a mistake to say, that the late meeting was called by the mayor, it was brought about by a number of individuals, who assembled for the purpose, and placed a Mr. Fletcher in the chair. The persons with whom he (Mr. G.) acted, withdrew when they saw with whom the measure originated.Mr. Gladstone
 was able to state, as a ship-owner, that in his opinion there was at present no want of seamen. No rise had taken place in the rate of wages, and that he conceived to be the best test that there was no scarcity of sailors. He was decidedly of opinion, that our commercial navy was at present greater than it had been at any former period. The trade to the Brazils had opened a new avenue for commerce, and the private trade to India was greater than it had ever been before.Mr. Gladstone
 said, the report, that the Bank of Ireland bad refused the current coin of the realm as deposit had excited his surprise. The present situation of Ireland was, that there was no circulation but that supplied by the Bank of Ireland. He could easily believe, that it might be inconsistent with the private interests of the Bank of Ireland to issue their notes upon deposits of gold; but he thought the bank, when it considered the situation, of Ireland, were bound to take a more enlarged view of the question. He certainly disapproved of the conduct which had been pursued by the Bank of Ireland towards those who imported and paid in gold coin. He would take that opportunity of putting a question to the Chancellor of the Exchequer on the subject of the issues of Exchequer bills under the late act. If he was rightly informed, the commissioner under that act felt so restrained by the terms of the enactment, that, great as was the pressure in Ireland, the country had been almost entirely shut out from the advantages intended by the legislature. In the drawing up of that bill there had been the most culpable neglect.Mr. Irving
331330329 said, he held in his hand a petition, to which he begged to call the most serious attention of the House. It was the petition of the merchants, bankers and traders of the city of London, and was signed by 5,000 persons. He did not mean to say, that the petitioners were, from the accident of possessing property, entitled to more consideration than persons who were poor. But, inasmuch as property gave an opportunity of education and the exercise of talent, he felt himself authorised to say, that there never had been presented, at any period, a petition from a class of persons superior to those by whom that petition had been voted. The first prayer of the petitioners was one to which the House must most readily lend its ears. They prayed, that parliament would, in its wisdom, adopt the necessary measures to allay the agitation which prevailed in the public mind. There were three or four points in this petition, upon which he would offer a few observations. The petitioners said, and said truly, that they entertained the strongest feelings of attachment to the Crown and to the constitution; and further, that even at this period of distress and agitation, they knew the great body of the people to be actuated by the strongest feelings of loyalty. They felt also, that no violence or disaffection existed, against which the present laws did not provide a sufficient remedy. They, at the same time, expressed their regret, that the late proceedings against the Queen had been instituted; proceedings which the House itself had declared to be derogatory from the dignity of the Crown, and injurious to the best interests of the country. He fully concurred in the reasons urged by
331330329Mr. John Smith
 was anxious to take that opportunity, before the estimates were produced, of impressing upon government, the necessity of turning their attention to the civil establishments of the navy, which he thought were capable of great reduction.Mr. Tremayne
 observed, that he had signed the declaration, because he thought it a proper occasion for expressing Ins loyal and dutiful attachment to the Crown. He believed it would be seen, from the signatures attached to it, that this was the persuasion of many most respectable and honourable men. The declaration which had been so much commented on was fairly and openly agreed to, and was publicly signed. There was nothing in the character of the meeting at which the declaration was proposed, that could authorize the hon. member who presented the petition to call it a clandestine transaction. The declaration was intended to express the sentiments of the gentlemen whose names were affixed to it, and did not profess to speak the opinion of any others. The doors of the House in which the meeting was held were open to every one. No porter was stationed at them to challenge the entrance of any individual. With respect to the other meeting, it was called for twelve o'clock. He went to the place appointed before that hour, and found that it was impossible to get in. The lives of individuals appeared to him to be in danger; and, from his advanced age, he did not think it advisable to attempt to procure a situation in the body of the hall. Under these circumstances, he considered the last meeting as the truly exclusive meeting, and was convinced, that the petition did not express the sentiments and feelings of the merchants and bankers of London.Mr. Wells
 stated, the great objections he entertained to the reduction of the naval force of the country, and the augmentation of the military. The increase of the corps of marines to the amount of 8,000 never could obtain his consent at a time when our military establishment was so great as it was. Still less could he countenance the reduction of our whole naval force down to the number of 14,000 seamen only. What means could they employ to man a fleet of any magnitude in case of emergency, if they went on annually decreasing this valuable body of men? It was most injurious to the interests of the navy. He would never consent to vote any money for this service, until he saw a disposition to reduce the useless and extravagant civil establishments. Before he voted any money, he must see if it was intended to reduce the number of commissioners of dock-yards and other place3 where they were equally unnecessary.Mr. Hume
 contended, that no difference existed between his own argument and those of his friends. The hon. gentleman near him had called for the production of the navy estimates; the hon. member for Shrewsbury had done the same, and he (Mr. Hume) had also pursued the same course of argument in wishing to see how far the reduction in the civil establishments corresponded with the one now proposed. When he was told, that the present motion should pass as a matter of course, he would tell the House, that that would be the case, if the supply required was to pay off the expenses of the last year. But the motion was an anticipating measure, and referred to the ensuing year. He contended that our sailors had been neglected. We had ships enough, and marines could easily be procured, but we had not seamen enough even to form the germ of an armament.Mr. Hume
 said, that the House had scarcely ever come to a vote on the subject, without a regret being expressed, that more marines were not raised. He thought them a most useful and necessary body. They had always distinguished themselves in every war; and he highly approved of the augmentation.Mr. Hurst
 replied. He said, that the question before the committee was, to vote 22,000 men, including 8,000 marines, for the service of the current year. Now if that number was voted, it would be necessary to provide food and raiment for them. He therefore wished to do nothing in the dark, and asked for the papers which would explain the necessity of having so many men, and the mode in which the money to be granted would be expended. But, it was said, that this was a novel proceeding, and ought not to meet with the concurrence of the committee. New or old practice, it was one which, as the House of Commons distributed the public money, it ought to put into effect. If the hon. members opposite would not agree to his amendment, he should feel it his duty to divide the committee on every resolution proposed to it relative to the vote of seamen. Strangers were ordered to withdraw. Not less than five divisions took place on the separate resolutions for the vote of seamen; for victualling them; for clothing them; for the wear and tear of the ships, and to supply the necessary ordnance for their use. The number of members who voted on each division, was—For the amendment on each resolution, 11; Against it 41: Majority, 30.Mr. Creevey
350l said, he had remarked on a former occasion, that if a real farce were wanted, recommend him to a committee of supply! He had to inform the Speaker, that during his absence from the chair, the committee had, within the last 20 minutes, voted away sums to the amount of 1,900,000350lMr. Creevey
 said, that this having been the practice of the House from time immemorial was the reason of all their distresses. It was time, that they should change their manners. He then moved, that the committee report progress, and ask leave to sit again. In this manner he should treat every resolution proposed in any Committee of Supply in which the estimates of the money were not before the House.Mr. Creevey
 said, it was his intention to oppose the vote proposed by the hon. baronet, as it was his fixed determination not to vote for a single farthing of the public money, before the estimates of the service for which it was to be employed, were laid upon the table.Mr. Creevey
328 said, that in 1812, when he was a candidate for Liverpool, not more than 2,400 had polled. If the circumstances attending the meeting were properly represented to him, the hon.
328Mr. Creevey
ll327exparte326 said, that he was ready-to give his support to every part of the petition. The first thing the petitioners prayed for was, that her majesty's name might be restored to the Liturgy. Upon a former occasion, before the inquiry had been gone into, he supported, upon grounds of justice and policy, the propriety of restoring her majesty's name. If it was important then, it was much more important now, when the exclusion amounted in fact to punishment, for a crime of which she had been acquitted, livery man was interested in opposing the species of law laid down by the noble lord opposite, who maintained, that as the bill of Pains and Penalties had undergone a third reading, and had then been only withdrawn, her majesty was in fact morally convicted, and only technically acquitted. This was a strange kind of law, which it was the interest and duty of every man in the country to oppose. If a third reading was sufficient to prove guilt, why should not a second, or even a first reading, have the same effect?—It would be much better not to carry it to a third reading; for then all the filth, the trouble, and expense of the evidence would have been spared. This new law of the noble lord's was the old story of "Acquitted Felons," a phrase of which he believed his late friend Mr. Windham was the author. The conduct pursued towards the Queen was worse. "Acquitted felons" supposed a trial; but her majesty's name was erased from the Liturgy without trial or inquiry; and though acquitted, they still heard, night after night, the most gross aspersions thrown upon her in that House. This would be unfair and unjust, even towards a female of the lowest class in society, who had been once acquitted. This country knew of no such law as that of the noble lord. The law here was, guilty or not guilty—by the finding of a jury. Her majesty was attacked for refusing to accept any provision till her name was restored to the Liturgy. How was it possible, that she could agree to accept it under such circumstances? She acted in this as became a person determined to support her honour, and character. He trusted, that in this generous; nation there would be found spirit enough to protect the unfortunate and illustrious lady, if she should persist in her refusal, from suffering the pain and degradation of indigence. If ministers should continue in their resolu-
ll327exparte326Mr. Creevey
333 begged to defend himself from the charge of inconsistency. When a-year and; a-half ago he had assisted at a private meeting of the merchants and bankers of London, the country was then in a different state. If new lights
333Mr. Astell
 counted the House and the number of members present being only 26, the House adjourned.The Speaker
345 could not suppress the surprise which he had felt at the different arguments which had been advanced by those who were adverse to the original motion. The argument of the mover of the amendment had gone principally upon the ground of economy, and the non-production of the navy estimates; but the hon. member for Montrose, so far from proceeding on a similar ground, seemed disposed to complain, that a sufficient number of seamen were not voted and consequently, that a greater expense was not incurred. After the present vote was disposed of, the question would then come before the House as to the sum necessary for the provisions and the wages of that number of men. It would readily occur to them, that from the great
345Sir G. Clerk
346 expressed his regret, that more professional men were not present. Had they been present the House would be satisfied, that the number of marines voted was not larger than required. It ought to be considered, that sailors were provided by the commercial navy of the country. It was true, that a disinclination existed to serve in the navy when a merchant service was open; but still, when merchant vessels could not be obtained, sailors would readily enter into the navy. Now it had been found, that the service of 1,000 men could be dispensed with, and he, in common with his colleagues, had felt it his duty to recommend a measure by which the public expenditure had been, lessened. If the
346Sir G. Cockburn
349 said, that all were agreed as to the evils of impressment, and that it should not be resorted to but under the pressure of an overruling necessity. To reduce that necessity, the Admiralty had done all that was in its power; for, with the assistance of that House, pensions had been granted to 35,000 seamen upon the condition of their return to the service when called upon. But, if more men should be required, and the seamen engaged in the commercial service would not voluntarily enter into our ships of war, they must betaken; for, otherwise, what would become of our fleets? Those fleets were necessary for the protection of commerce, and therefore there was a pretty good understanding between commercial men and the Admiralty upon the subject. With regard to the allegation, that many seamen were seen nearly starving in the streets of London upon the termination of the war, he was convinced it would be more correct to say, that many were seen starving in seamen's jackets; for the fact
349Sir. G. Cockburn
 was happy to be able to state, that a considerable reduction was contemplated in the civil establishment. He could not suffer that occasion to pass without again referring to the misapprehension under which the hon. gentleman opposite laboured. He was well aware, that that gentleman had no intention to misrepresent facts, but he could not avoid complaining of his want of accuracy, because the unavoidable inference which would be drawn by the public would be, that the House neglected the interests of the navy. Every one knew, that our armaments were supplied from our commercial navy, and that at no former period was that source so plentiful. It was that reason to which the economy prevalent in that branch of the service was to be attributed. He believed, if any circumstances should occur to require extraordinary exertions, that in a very short time a fleet of 20 sail of the line might be manned chiefly from the source which he had mentioned. The case was different with respect to marines. All the naval officers in the House knew the use of that body of men, and they knew also, that an effective corps was not raised without much difficulty.Sir G. Warrender
 said, that so far from the sailors being thrown on the country at the peace, 35,000 of them were pensioned, and l,175 midshipmen had been promoted as a just reward for their services after a long war.Sir G. Warrender
343 said, that the hon. member, had mistaken the nature of his motion. It was not at all connected with the general estimates of the navy, which were always in the hands of members at least a fortnight before the resolutions founded on them were moved. The votes proposed in the early part of the session always related to the fleet afloat, and had no connection with either the raising or reducing the existing strength of the navy. The votes which he held in his hand related
343Sir. G. Warrender
 trusted the House would not be led away by the opinion of the hon. gentleman on the subject of the increase of marines, when they knew, that it was the opinion of all persons connected with the navy, and he believed of all the gentlemen on the other side, except the hon. member himself, that it was of the greatest advantage to the public service to increase the corps of Royal Marines.Sir G. Warrender
 addressed the committee on the subject of the supplies for the Navy for the present year. He stated, that a considerable diminution in the naval expenditure had taken place, partly in consequence of the reduction of 1,000 seamen, and partly owing to the diminished price of provisions. This diminution, however, was not intended to affect the exertions which were making in the cause of humanity and of science in this branch of the administration of public affairs. The hon. baronet concluded by moving, "That 22,000 men be employed for the Sea Service, for 13 lunar months, from 1st. Jan. 1821, including 8,000 royal marines."Sir George Warrender
340 said, the Bank of Ireland had not the power to refuse payment in sovereigns, but they refused to discount for those merchants who paid their bills in
340Sir H. Parnell
338 could not exactly agree either with the hon. baronet or with the hon. member for Taunton. He denied the declaration of the former, that the hon. mover of the resolution was distinctly heard. He denied the assertion of the latter, that the tumult was the result of any combination or conspiracy. He did not believe one word of such a charge, and was convinced that it was utterly unfounded. The Declaration had not been put forth as the declaration of the merchants and bankers of the city of London, but only as the "undersigned" merchants, &c. He admitted, that in the earlier placards that distinction had by mistake not been made; but the error was unintentional, and was corrected as soon as it was discovered. He wondered, that those honourable gentlemen who had charged the individuals signing the declaration with being influenced by any but the most open and honourable motives, had not, on reading their names, felt a kind ness and respect which would have in-
338Mr. Wilson
 presented a petition from the Coopers of London, praying for the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy. It was signed, he said, by 1,300 persons. They prayed also, that inquiry might be made into the Milan commission, and that ministers might be dismissed. With respect to the Milan commission, he looked upon it as an illegal establishment, a sort of agency-board for carrying on the business of a conspiracy against her majesty. This appeared evident from the the witnesses they procured, who were utterly unworthy of credit, and whose evidence was improbable, or rather impossible. They appeared never to have made any inquiry as to the credibility of the witnesses, or the truth of their statements, but shewed the utmost remissness in this and every other respect. Their only object seemed to have been to collect what evidence they could against her majesty, whether true or false. He had it upon the honour of the Austrian ambassador to the court of Naples, that every thing stated by the witnesses respecting her majesty's conduct at the court of Naples was wholly false. If there was no charge against the commissioners, it would be only fair, on the part of ministers, to give them an opportunity of defending themselves, by allowing some inquiry to be gone into. He condemned, in severe terms, the manner in which her majesty was treated by many hon. gentlemen in that House, who used such language as left her no alternative but to demand another trial, for the purpose of vindicating herself against those aspersions.Sir Robert Wilson
 said, there was all the difference in the world between payment, which was the discharge of a legal obligation, and deposit, which was the intrusting of money voluntarily received, to be accounted for. Of course, the Bank of Ireland could not refuse money in payment, but in deposit they might. Since the union of the Treasuries of the two countries, it was the business of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and not of the Secretary for Ireland, to be prepared with information on these subjects. It was the more important, that this separation should be attended to, as there was nothing more mischievous to the finances of Ireland than the interference of the castle government.Sir J. Newport
332 expressed his full concurrence with the hon. gentleman in many of his observations, and agreed also in the correctness of some parts of the statement which he had made, relative to what took place at the meeting from which this petition proceeded. The meeting had been very properly called on a requisition most honourably signed, containing the names of men of the highest character, as well as of the greatest property. He was, however, compelled to differ from his hon. friend in one respect. His honourable friend had said, that the declaration agreed to at the London Tavern could only be regarded as that of the individuals by whom it was subscribed, and that it did not record the sentiments of the merchants and bankers of London. Now, although he was disposed to allow the respectability and opulence of those who called the public meeting, he would assert, that the declaration was signed by persons of as much property and honour, to the fullest extent. He did not know why, because one party thought fit to hold a public meeting, it should quarrel with another, that adopted a different mode of declaring its opinions. The declaration of the latter was certainly mild and moderate enough; no loyal man could dissent from it; it was indeed but a-milk and-water kind of production. No other mode, however, was presented of testifying his attachment to the throne, and be thought, it was a time, when that attachment, and a determination to support the throne, ought to be declared. He denied, that he ever did any thing in a hole or corner: whatever he did, he wished the world to know. The declaration originated in a peaceable and quiet meeting, and he for one, thought it might serve to cheer up his majesty, if at such a time they passed a resolution
332Sir W. Curtis
334 was sure, that the House had heard, with the greatest regret from the hon. baronet, that henceforth it would be in vain to expect to ascertain the sentiments of the merchants and bankers of London, from any public meeting at which they were assembled. This was the more painful, as the sentiments of such a body were in themselves highly important; and as it was always of importance, that the House should have an opportunity of knowing the sentiments of their constituents. The hon. baronet had said, that he had signed the declaration, although he thought it did not go far enough, and because he thought, his majesty ought to be cheered up. When, however, the hon. baronet coupled with that sentiment an approbation of the measures of ministers, he expressed two opinions completely distinct from each other; because, if there was any one proposition more evident than another, it was, that the measures which had been adopted by his majesty's
334Lord Milton
 assured his hon. friend, that he did not under-rate the importance of the subject, relative to which he had put this question. His hon. friend's question, however, was similar to one that had already been put, and to which he had answered, that it was not the intention of his majesty's ministers to bring forward any specific motion on the subject. As he had then stated, it appeared to him, that the distresses did not arise from the state of the law, in which case a specific remedy might easily be provided. At the same time, if it appeared, that it would be more grateful to the minds of the country and to the House, to institute an inquiry into the cause of the evils, he would cheerfully give it his cordial support. He should, however, feel it his duty, before the inquiry was gone into, to make himself clearly understood, as otherwise much injury might be done to the country from their going into the committee with a misunderstanding of each other's intentions and views, it would be most requisite, that the country should understand, that there did not exist any reasonable expectation of being able to provide a remedy for evils, which were dependent on cause beyond the control of the legislature. When the motion for a committee was made, he should explain his own views on the subject, and the guards with which he should desire to go into the committee.Lord Castlereagh
384383382381 said, that neither he nor his colleagues could complain of the manner in which both the noble mover and the hon. seconder of the resolution had brought forward their attack upon the measures of his majesty's ministers. It was quite clear, that the object of the present motion was;—first, the removal of ministers, and then, as a necessary consequence, a reform in parliament. He must lament, that, in the invidious task which he had undertaken, he must necessarily discuss topics from which otherwise he should most anxiously refrain. He could assure the hon. gentleman who spoke last, that in defending the recent conduct of ministers, he had no intention of justifying it by any rule of comparison with any thing that had been done on a former occasion; for the circumstances might be totally different, and, as had been well said, one act of injustice (if there was one) could not justify the committal of a second. With reference to the conduct of her majesty, as it had been related by persons of respectability who had visited the continent, and which had been represented to have been carried to the utmost possible length of impropriety—was that a matter so unimportant as not to be worth the attention of government? Could any thing be more proper when such accounts were transmitted to this country, than to institute an inquiry into their nature—always supposing such inquiry to be properly conducted? [Hear, hear, from the Opposition benches.] He knew that the bulk of the people entertained a different opinion upon this question from that entertained by the higher classes of the community, whose means and opportunities enabled them to form a more accurate judgment upon facts. The Milan commission was composed of persons of great honour, and who were utterly free from any bias or motive which could unduly influence their opinion. Had this commission declared, that there was no foundation for the accusation, then of course it would have fallen to the ground; but when, on the contrary, it disclosed such a mass of information as, in any private case, would imperatively call for further investigation, he must contend, that ministers were bound to submit the case for ulterior inquiry. When her majesty declared her intention of coming to this country, as if there was no charge to be made against her, and assumed the
384383382381Mr. Bathurst
388387ultimum remedium et pessimum386385 expressed a hope, that the House would with patience hear the first observations of a member, who was alone induced, by the importance of the subject then under consideration, to offer
388387ultimum remedium et pessimum386385Mr. Whitmore
394393392parapresbeia391390389 began by complimenting the hon. member who had just sat down, both upon the matter and the manner of what he had delivered to the House. All parties must agree with him in thinking that nothing was more desirable than an union of interests. He had avoided taking a part in these unfortunate discussions; he had viewed them with disgust, and almost with shame. When he recollected the embarrasments of the country, the burdens it had to sustain, the extent of the agricultural distresses, coupled with a glance at the pending proceedings in the south of Europe, he could not help saying that it was matter of vexation and almost of shame, to think that this wise and understanding people should be dragged into these discussions to the neglect of matters of higher and
394393392parapresbeia391390389Mr. Bankes
"That it appears to this House, that his majesty's ministers, in advising the measures which have led to the late proceedings against her majesty the Queen, were not justified by any political expediency or necessity; and that their conduct throughout the whole of those proceedings has been productive of consequences derogatory from the honour of the Crown, and injurious to the best interests of the country."368367366l365l364363362 said, he rose in pursuance of his notice and of the wishes of many of his friends, to move a resolution expressive of the sense of that House, on the measures which had lately emanated from his majesty's government. Never had he felt so much the want of powers to embody his sentiments in language, and his perfect incapacity to do common justice to the subject which he had presumed to bring under the consideration of the House. It was, however, fortunate for him, that the discussions which that subject had already undergone in the House and throughout the country,
"That it appears to this House, that his majesty's ministers, in advising the measures which have led to the late proceedings against her majesty the Queen, were not justified by any political expediency or necessity; and that their conduct throughout the whole of those proceedings has been productive of consequences derogatory from the honour of the Crown, and injurious to the best interests of the country."368367366l365l364363362The Marquis of Tavistock
 rose to order. He wished to ask whether it was parliamentary to say that a majority of that House, on any question had declared war against the people of England?Lord Castlereagh
413412411ex-parteex-parte410409408407406405 said, that, having been absent on every former occasion on which this subject was before the House, and having now heard the particularly severe terms which the hon. and learned gentleman had applied to the last decision of that House, he felt himself called upon to justify the vote he should give. Having been prevented from attending when the last decision of the House had been given,; and having intended, if he could haves, been present, to take that line which had I been so severely animadverted on, he would first state the grounds on which he concurred with that majority of whom the hon. and learned gentleman had said, in the warmth and heat of debate, that they had declared war against the people. The words had been satisfactorily explained-by
413412411ex-parteex-parte410409408407406405Mr. Peel
415414 observed, that aware of the great influence of ministers in that House, it was easy to anticipate the fate of his noble friend's motion. With that view before him, he still looked with one feeling of melancholy satisfaction to the motion, inasmuch as it would enable the people to perceive, by the division, who were, and who were not, their faithful representatives. After the language he had heard uttered in that House against her majesty—language which would not have been tolerated, which would not have been dared to be used, in speaking of any other woman in the country who enjoyed the protection of a husband, a father, or a brother, he could not allow himself to give a silent vote, but must declare on his honour, his full belief of the Queen's being innocent of every charge against her as supported by the evidence. He said supported by the evidence, for he had no other means than the evidence produced, of forming an opinion. There was one part of the charge against ministers to which no gentleman on the other side attempted to reply: namely, why this opportunity of discussing the subject was delayed so long; why parliament was not sooner assembled for the purpose? During the last session a gallant friend of his (Sir R. Fergusson) proposed an inquiry into the Milan commission. The noble lord opposite said, that was not the time, but pledged himself that it should be done at the earliest possible opportunity. The noble lord also said, that in the event of the charges not being substantiated, her majesty should be restored to all her privileges undiminished. How had those
415414Lord Nugent
ex-parte421420sine quâ nonsine qua nonsine qua nonsine qua non.sine qua non,419 said, that as the scrutiny to which the conduct of members had been subjected throughout all the discussions relating to the Queen, though abundantly minute, had been by no means proportionally accurate, and as he had voted on the recent occasions with that majority whose conduct was so severely impeached, he ventured to address the House, for the first time, in explanation of the reasons which would determine his present vote. Upon any question which had been personal to the Queen, he should have been unwilling to take an active part against her; but, when the motion was not against the Queen b\it against the government—when her friends were advancing from defensive to offensive warfare—[Interruption from the Opposition].—This was the first time he had troubled the House, and as he understood, that some indulgence was usual under such circumstances, he should presume to construe those demonstrations as friendly. He had been about to observe, that the present question being free from those difficulties which belonged to such as were personal to the Queen, an opinion might be expressed without any thing invidious to that illustrious person. With respect then to the exclusion from the Liturgy, it had not been magnified into so severe a hardship by the Queen herself, who at first seemed comparatively indifferent about it, but by certain distinguished persons in Opposition. They, before she herself took the objection, had suggested and propagated this promising topic of complaint: and the spark had then been formed into a flame by the formidable ventilation of the anti-ministerial press. [The hon. gentleman was again interrupted by the disapprobation of some members opposite, of which he complained, as being not less ungenerous on a first address, than it was derogatory on all other occasions.]
ex-parte421420sine quâ nonsine qua nonsine qua nonsine qua non.sine qua non,419Mr. Horace Twiss
379378377376375374373372371**l*370***369 said, he rose to second the motion—not only because he concurred in the sentiments so ably, so feelingly, and so eloquently expressed by his noble friend, but, because he thought it necessary, after what had taken place, to pursue measures of an entirely different character, by which alone the present ferment could be allayed, and those constitutional principles restored which had been violated by the noble lord in the very commencement, of those proceedings. The knowledge he had of his noble friend's independent principles—the knowledge he had of his hereditary love of freedom—would induce him to second any proposition made to the House by his noble friend, without stating his own sentiments' on the subject—secure, as he must always feel, that in following the course pursued by his noble friend, he never would be in danger of doing any thing injurious-
379378377376375374373372371**l*370***369Mr. Lambton
 There can be but one opinion upon the words used by the hon. and learned gentleman;—and I am certain that the hon. and learned gentleman himself will admit that the words are most disorderly.The Speaker.
404403402401400399398 resumed. He bowed with the greatest deference to the opinion of the chair, but this was the first time, in his recollection, when any member was called to order for words which he had already explained. Uninfluenced, then, by what had just occurred, he would say, that a majority of that House, in hostility to the declared wishes of the people of England, was an evil; and that that evil would be increased if a greater number of members were of the same opinion with the majority; and still worse, if there were none left who could agree with the sentiments of the people. But the hon. gentleman had given the best possible answer to one part of his argument, with respect to the attendance of gentlemen on the Opposition side of the House at public meetings. He had spoken of incendiaries. Why, should the hon. gentleman say that all public meetings were to be left to the influence or direction of
404403402401400399398Sir J. Mackintosh
397396395 said, he was called on by the extraordinary speech of the hon. member to offer a few words. The hon. member had, indeed, said little on the motion, of which he told them he disapproved; but whatever he did say upon it, after having made that declaration, was in its support; for he very candidly staled, that in the proceedings, which it went to condemn, he could not agree, as to either their beginning, conduct, or termination. Yet he had given a vote in contradiction to that sentiment, and opposed the resolution by his practice, while he upheld it by his observations. He would not en-
397396395Sir James Mackintosh
 said, that after the answer of the noble lord, he should feel it to be his duty to bring the matter before the House at an early period.Mr. Gooch
361 begged to ask the noble lord opposite, whether it was intended to bring for-
361Mr. Gooch
418417416 said, he apprehended that the right hon. the member for the university of Oxford had failed in establishing a case for the ministers. That right hon. gentleman had warned the House not to regard the public opinion, as it was adverse to the character of those whom he supported; but to justify his warning, the right hon. gentleman had described another authority, which he thought proper to call public opinion. It would be, however, for the common sense and candour of parliament and the country to form an estimate upon the comparison of the right horn gentleman, between the secretly managed effusions of private meetings, and the open unqualified declarations, petitions, and addresses of the, numerous public meetings which had taken place throughout the country.418417416Lord Milton
 spoke in behalf of the Water Companies, shewed that some of them had made little or no profit, and wished the Committee to be an open one.Mr. Alderman Brydges
423 rose for the purpose of moving, that a select committee be appointed to consider the state of the supply of water to the metropolis. In 1810, the circumstances arose which had rendered it necessary to bring this subject before the notice of parliament. Up to that period, the metropolis had been supplied with water by three or four trading companies—the New River, the Chelsea, the Thames, and one or two minor companies. At that time it was stated to the House, that this was a monopoly, and, in consequence it was broken down. It was likewise held, that new companies would be able to afford the same supply of water at a less rate than the old ones, which were at that time stated to be insolvent, and consequently unable to diminish the rate at which they supplied water, which was at an average of 27 shillings for each house. The result of these statements was, that a company, calling itself the West Middlesex company, was incorporated to supply, not the metropolis, but the vicinity of the metropolis with water. Not finding the lucrative results which they expected, they came a short time afterwards to the House for an amended bill; to enable them to extend their supply to a part of the metropolis, and obtained it. In 1811, the Grand Junction company was incorporated for a similar purpose; and as the House was impressed with a conviction, that the competition of these companies would produce results beneficial to the public, they did not take even the usual precautions in incorporating them. It fixed no rate as a maximum beyond which they were not to go; all that was said in their charters was, that they should fix a reasonable rate; but they were left to judge of the reasonableness of that rate themselves. No sooner were these charters procured, than the streets were broken up by the different companies for the purpose of laying pipes; and every House was besieged for the purpose of obtaining custom. In the course of three or four years the expense of the contest convinced the parties engaged in it, that if they continued it much longer they must all be ruined; and the consequence of this conviction
423Mr. Fremantle
428 observed, that it was unquestionably most desirable to examine how it happened, that in the sixth year of peace not any amendment had evinced itself in the condition of the country. Our agriculturists, our manufacturers, and our commercial men, all expressed to the House the uneasy state in which they felt themselves, and the distress which they suffered. To enter into the causes and the most advisable remedies for that distress, would be, to go into a question of
428Mr. Baring
 assured the hon. member, that every effort of the government had been directed to the subject of the present motion. It was most satisfactory to him, that parliament should, from time to time, take up the consideration of this important question.Lord Castlereagh
448447446445444 observed, that whatever the merits of the question might be, and however unwilling he was to draw upon the attention of the House, which the honourable gentleman had for the last half hour so agreeably enlivened, he could not omit the duty of putting his opinion upon record on this great occasion. He believed he could anticipate the result of the vote of that night; but as he was one of those who were likely to share in the ruin which the measures of ministers and the votes of their majorities, were bringing on the country, he was justified in endeavouring to avert that ruin, or at least in entering his protest against the perseverance in a line of policy which must be attended with such dreadful results. He did not intend to follow the right hon. member who had spoken last, through the course of his speech. He would rather make some observations on the speech of the right hon. gentleman who held the double office of Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and president of the board of Control. And here he could not but remark, that every gentleman on the opposite side, with the exception of the ministers themselves, had carefully excluded all approbation of the conduct of his majesty's ministers. The right hon. member for Oxford was quite disinclined to approve of the conduct of administration in the main question. The right honourable gentleman, indeed, who followed the seconder, stated, that his majesty's ministers had received ample information relative to the conduct of the Queen from persons of rank and fortune. Now, he would be glad to know who those persons were? The noble lord opposite had stated last year, that the bill of Pains and Penalties would be supported by persons of credit and character; but they had since seen who those creditable persons were. He would wish to know, whether they were the same respectable authorities of rank and fortune to whom the right hon. gentleman alluded. It was strange that not one person of that description was produced at the bar of the House of Lords, to give a plausible character to that collection of gossip, scandalous detail; and falsehood, which, on the precious information that ministers
448447446445444Mr. Bennet
463proh pudor!462Castra, ubi nulla potentia.461460459 said, he meant to address his observations to the general question now before the House, although he might find it necessary to advert occasionally to what he would not call the argument, but the sort of rhapsody which they had just heard from the right hon. gentleman. That, indeed, had little or no reference to the question before the House; and whether it were true or not, that the Whigs had, according to the right hon. gentleman, acted in this or that manner, upon this or that occasion, must; now be a matter almost indifferent even to the Whigs themselves. But the right hon. gentleman was singularly unfortunate in his allusions to former periods, and in rendering his inferences from them applicable to present circumstances. He had thought proper to go back to a time beyond the memory of them all—to the early stage of Mr. Fox's political career; and had quoted an opinion then pronounced by that eminent statesman. It was very possible that Mr. Fox, with little or no experience of the conduct of that House, should have, nearly half a century ago, expressed his belief that it did represent the feelings of the country—
463proh pudor!462Castra, ubi nulla potentia.461460459Sir Francis Burdett
497496savans495494493sine qua non492l.l.491490l.489488487 said, he would proceed to state the true question now before the House, and, in doing so, he would confine his argument, as closely as circumstances would permit, to that object. He would say, that the speech of the right hon. gentleman was a fair and manly speech for him to deliver. He had reasoned the question fairly, between that and the other side of the House; or rather, he had placed the vote which the House was asked that night to give on such principles as it might be clearly argued on. He felt indebted to the noble mover, and the honourable seconder, for having so candidly stated the grounds on which they brought forward this charge. They had done honour to themselves personally, and they had also extricated their party from that course which he thought extremely unbecoming in them; they had extricated them from those milk and water motions which had been so often resorted to; they had extricated them from the disgrace in which the party was involving itself by such proceedings, and he trusted he should not be found that night to be the individual who was disposed to shrink from the manly appeal which the noble lord and the hon. mem-
497496savans495494493sine qua non492l.l.491490l.489488487Lord Castlereagh
468467466465464pro bono publico. said, he should never hesitate to bow to the authority of the Chair on a point of order, and should feel grateful to any member who interrupted him when he was transgressing the bounds of parliamentary debate. All that he meant was, that if charges of a heinous nature were preferred by a public officer against an exalted person, and that person a lady—a lady, too, so unfortunate, that her offences, if she had committed any, ought to find compassion, if not excuse—where the case was such that no one appeared as a complaining party, and where the sole ground of the prosecution was a real or pretended state necessity—that under such circumstances, it did not become a public officer to betray an eagerness to convict, but rather under the dictation of gentlemanlike feelings to show a spirit of indulgence, and to extenuate instead of exaggerating a supposed offence. There was no necessity for going into a long nauseous detail. Had one single material fact been proved, the rest might have been spared, and ought to have been spared, in a prosecution avowedly instituted 468467466465464pro bono publico.Sir F. Burdett
471470ipse dixit469 said, it was not his intention to have troubled the House during the present debate, but he hoped the House would feel, after the personal observations of the hon. baronet, that no apology was due from him. The hon. baronet had commenced his speech with two complaints. In the first place, the hon. baronet charged his right hon. friend, near him, with a violation of the decorum of the language of debate; but he would appeal to the House whether the hon. baronet had not more violently violated that decorum in the observations which he had made. He appealed to the House whether the observations of the hon. baronet, as applied to himself, kept within the line prescribed by the hon. baronet to other members. The hon. baronet had next said, that the right hon. gentleman had done any thing rather than apply his observations to the topics of this debate; but he would appeal to the House, whether the hon. baronet had done any thing but irregularly and irrelevantly apply his observations to other topics. In the first place, the hon. baronet had alluded to a speech made by him (the attorney-general,) in another place, and in the next he had alluded to an argument used two days ago in the King's Bench, in a cause to which the hon. baronet was n party. Such was the con-
471470ipse dixit469The Attorney General
 said, that he would afford every assistance in his power in furtherance of the object of the motion.Mr. H. Sumner
486485484483482481l.480479478477476l.l.475474473472 said, he felt that he could not altogether be silent, as repeated allusions had been made to his opinions and declarations. The motion of his noble friend was stated, by the supporters of ministers, to be brought forward for the purpose of turning them out. Now, he could assure the House, that he did not support the proposed censure on ministers with that object, though he should be glad if it lead to that result. The proceedings on which the House was to decide
486485484483482481l.480479478477476l.l.475474473472Mr. Tierney
507506505504503502501500499498 requested the favourable attention of the house, not so much because he was in some degree personally concerned in what had passed, as because he had still to discharge the remainder of an anxious duty to her Majesty, rendered infinitely more painful and burdensome by the tone and matter of the speech of the noble lord. It was mighty well for the hon. member for Corfe-castle to assert, that the time was now come when he might offer his promised explanation; and it was very easy for the commissioner of woods and forests to repeat the taunt, and to allege as a reason for compliance the conclusion of all inquiries regarding the Queen. He would appeal to the House, after what had occurred, whether there was any appearance that those inquiries had terminated. Had all intention further to molest the Queen been finally and completely abandoned? Did the speeches within the last few days, even the most moderate and guarded of them, give any such indication? The attorney-general, to excuse himself, had taken upon himself to re-assert what he had asserted elsewhere. The member for Surrey, backed by the member for Somerset, and supported by a noble but voluntary witness, the member for Westmorland, had even introduced charges unheard-of until long after the acquittal of her majesty, and had accused her, not only of maintaining a correspondence with Bergami, but of transmitting to him large sums of the public money to support him in a guilty splendor. If he had shut his ears to all matters of mere rumour, and his eyes to the statement of the motive assigned by the member for Liverpool for quitting office, namely, his reluctance to become a prosecutor of his Queen—if he had refused to look at the systematic attempts to malign and defame her majesty, not only in that part of the public press known to be under the control of the responsible advisers of the
507506505504503502501500499498Mr. Brougham
 was convinced, that any improvement in the condition of the commerce and manufactures of the country must proceed from an improvement in the condition of our agriculture, now in a state of such severe depression.Mr. Curwen
maximummaximumll424 said, that with great deference to his hon. friend, he could not agree in all the statements he had made. Another opportunity would occur, when he should state the real facts of the supply of water, and the House could then judge whether the steps which he (Mr. T.) had taken on that subject were those which, if they had been sanctioned by the other House of Parliament, would or would not have given to the public every advantage which could have been desired. The plain question was,
maximummaximumll424Mr. M. A. Taylor
427426 said, he rose, pursuant to notice, for the purpose of moving, "That a select committee be appointed to inquire into the state of foreign trade." The subject was brought forward thus early in the session, in order that the labours of the committee might be laid before the House as early as possible, so that any suggestions that emanated from it might be speedily considered, and acted on, if approved of by parliament. He knew the subject could not have been placed in better hands than in those of the hon. member (Mr. Baring), who, in the last session, had so ably stated his opinions on this important question; but, it was deemed advisable, that a member of the government should introduce it, because ministers wished to prove to the House and the country, that the consent which had been given, on the part of government, to the formation of a committee of this nature, was not a forced or reluctant consent. They were anxious to show, that they felt the deep importance of the subject, and that they were willing to give every facility in their power to its consideration. He would not, in moving for a committee, go over those reasons and arguments which on a former occasion had been so ably urged, to show the necessity of an alteration in the existing system. There was, undoubtedly, great distress in the country. A part of that distress, which was said to be within the reach of the House, and to which legislative provision might be applied, was, he felt happy to say, in some degree abated, though not entirely removed. Some of the most important branches of our manufactures had been considerably improved; and it gave him pleasure to state, that the cotton-manufacturers in England and Scotland were generally employed. The same might, he believed, be stated of the woollen-manufactures. There were other manufactures, however, in a situation of very great, and, he feared, increased depression. But, they were returning to a state of things, which in the end, would, he doubted not, prove most favourable to the country. The different branches of manufactures were so intimately linked together, that the distress of one must necessarily affect others. Now, if this were the fact, it was rational to conclude, that those branches which
427426Mr. Wallace
443en musse442441440439438437 after stating his reason for now breaking through the practice of a long parliamentary life, by troubling the House on a general question like the present, proceeded to advert to some of the topics already introduced in the course of the debate. In the first place, he must observe, that what had fallen from the hon. member for Corfe-castle, had been grossly misunderstood and misinterpreted; his hon. friend had not disapproved of the beginning, middle, and end of the proceedings against the Queen; he had only gone to the extent of saying, that he was not completely satisfied on the subject, adding, that if the matter were to be commenced again, he did not know, if he had been a minister, how he could act otherwise. Next, with regard to what the same hon. gentleman had remarked on the subject of the peace of 1815, that peace did answer the description he had given of it. At least, some valuable acquisitions were made by this country, and an exalted notion had been raised among the nations of the world as to her character, vigour, and resources. Such was his (Mr. H.' s) opinion; and it was not to be altered by an incident occurring in the sixth year of peace, which no wisdom could have foreseen or prevented, and by which, he trusted, the tranquillity of Europe could
443en musse442441440439438437Mr. Huskisson,
429 said, it was now nearly fourteen years since this country had declared the crime, disgrace, and shame which attached to the African Slave Trade. No sooner had that desirable object been attained, than we turned to the other powers of Europe, and endeavoured to procure from them the same determination. In the peace of 1815, the exertions of the noble lord opposite, procured the abolition by the united voices of almost all nations. He was happy to say, that the noble lord, in employing his able exertions in the cause, had been supported by one of the greatest sovereigns in Europe, the emperor of Russia. He also had to mention a noble duke, to whom the country was so deeply indebted, as being among the most strenuous in accomplishing this great object. And for that alone, besides his other high services in the field, the country owed him everlasting gratitude. At the period to which he had alluded, every power in Europe was assembled at the congress of Vienna; and there they agreed in declaring, that the Slave Trade was contrary to all the principles of humanity and of morality. How, then, came it to pass that a period of five years had elapsed, and these powers had afforded no cooperation for carrying their declaration into effect? It therefore appeared, that we had only prevailed upon them to agree to the abolition in word, and that they were not disposed actively to co-operate with us in deed. Denmark had indeed done so, and America had done so. America had not only done that, but by an
429Mr. W. Smith
 acquiesced in every thing which his hon. friend had stated.Mr. Wilberforce
 thought it would be for those who went into the committee, merely to enquire into the means of doing justice between the parties. For himself, he did not see the advantages which an open committee would have over a select one.Mr. Wilmot
 suggested to the hon. baronet that his warmth was obviously carrying him beyond the limits of parliamentary order.The Speaker
458457456455454453452451450whole449 said, it was not his intention to detain the House long; but, as a member of his majesty's government, he could not sit silent under the charges which, on this and on the last night, had been brought forward against the administration. He felt himself obliged to the noble lord who had brought forward this motion, and to the hon. member who seconded it, for the distinct and candid avowal of their object. Upon a former occasion some doubt might be entertained upon the subject, but it was now fairly avowed, that the great purpose for which this motion was brought forward, was, to effect the dismissal of his majesty's ministers. As to the motion itself, it was a secondary consideration, it was merely a vehicle chosen to produce the desired change, and undoubtedly it was well chosen; because, it would carry with it a stronger force than any other that could have been selected. But the noble lord and the hon. member were not doing any thing new upon this occasion—they were only doing that which they had been doing ever since the present administration had been formed. There was scarcely one of the efficient acts of administration for the last ten years, which the hon. gentlemen opposite had not opposed, and for which they would not have been quite as ready to pass a vote of censure upon ministers, as they were upon the present occasion. It was important that the House should bear this in mind; because, when gentlemen so loudly exclaimed that the conduct of ministers for the last six months deserved all the censure it was now endeavoured to heap on their heads, it was but fair to ask, whether those gentlemen ever en-
458457456455454453452451450whole449Mr. Wellesley Pole
436"Where nature sickened and each gale was death."—"drawn her breath435434433432431end,430 rose. He said, he could assure the House, that it was not his intention to detain them by any lengthened arguments; but he felt it to be his duty to communicate some important information which he possessed, relative to the discussion before the House. As far as he understood the arguments of the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Bathurst) who had spoken first in opposition to the motion, he had not attempted to justify the conduct of ministers, but had rather expressed a wish,
436"Where nature sickened and each gale was death."—"drawn her breath435434433432431end,430Sir Robert Wilson
 thought it desirable, that both Houses should act together in the mode of inquiry, and decide as promptly as possible upon one common course. Nothing was more fatal to any branch of trade than to be kept lingering in a state of uncertainty.Sir John Newport
 presented a petition from South Moulton, condemning the proceedings against the Queen, and praying for an inquiry into the circumstances which led to the Milan commission. His lordship stated, that 976 signatures had been affixed to this petition in a space of eight days; and that he could bear testimony to the respectability of many of those signatures. On the other hand, the corporation address of the same town, which address contained many unnecessary protestations of loyalty, had received only 183 signatures in a longer space of time, and five were those of excisemen. The noble lord opposite had observed, that the good sense of the country was to be collected from corporation addresses. Now, it was a fact, that several of those who signed the loyal address of South Moulton had also affixed their names to the petition he had the honour to present.Lord Ebrington
 observed, that the noble lord opposite had declared that ministers had no wish to remain longer in office than while they possessed the confidence of the country. If the opinion of a great and opulent county, such as Surrey, would have any weight with the noble lord, he would refer him for that opinion even to the hon. member for Surrey, who had not been intrusted to present the petition of his constituents, and who could inform the noble that a more respectable and orderly meeting had never been assembled. And what was the result? That, when the question was put to the vote, there were about half a dozen hands held up against 3 or 400. The hon. member for Surrey complained that his friends were not present. Why they were not present he knew not, unless they thought that the cause which the hon. gentleman wished them to support was too bad a one to be countenanced.Mr. Calvert
 declared, that he had moved the resolution of which the hon. gentleman complained, because he thought it his duty as a freeholder of the county of Surrey to do so. The conduct of a representative in parliament was always a fair subject for criticism at a county meeting, and he should have thought that the hon. gentleman would have felt that his conduct on the subject respecting which the meeting were convened, must be so fresh in their minds, that it could not escape scrutiny. Nor had he any right to complain of want of generosity, who had recently exhibited so egregious a want of that quality. In the animadversions which he had felt it his duty to make on the hon. gentleman's conduct, he had not adverted to any hearsay information. He had spoken of facts which were as clear as day, of the course which the hon. gentleman had pursued in that House. As to the period of making his motion, it was impossible that he could have made it before the original resolutions on which the petition was founded, were agreed to. He denied, therefore, that his conduct had been either unmanly or ungenerous. He had merely given effect to what were decidedly the wishes of the meeting.Mr. Macdonald
520 said, that nothing was further from his intention than to reflect personally upon the learned gentleman. Indeed he thought he had diminished rather than increased the effect of the learned gentleman's sentiments, and which, from the variance they presented at one moment from those uttered at another, and particularly in conjunction with his learned colleague (Mr. Brougham), certainly were calculated to lead to the notion, that at one moment the learned gentlemen were delivering their own opinions, while at another they were merely speaking from their briefs. But certainly, as the learned gentleman spoke now as a member of parliament, and not as a counsel, he should have taken care to state accurately the contents of his (lord C's.) speech. Now, as to what had been said respecting the circulation of particular speeches, why should the gentlemen opposite complain that authentic copies of particular speeches had been circulated throughout the country? What else could they expect. If, indeed, the gentlemen opposite had been silent when the bill was withdrawn, then they might expect that others would have followed their example; but had the gentlemen opposite pursued that prudent course? Had they not, at the different meetings throughout the country, arraigned, in the most severe terms, the motives and conduct of ministers during the late transactions—had they not, in the most unsparing terms, attacked both their public and private motives, and charged them with eliciting nothing but "filthy lies." The hon. gentlemen opposite were to have free warren and free chace against ministers,—they were to have all the battle to themselves—they were to handle every topic of irritation, and ministers were not to be allowed to raise a hand in their own defence. They were to allow that part of the press which was in the pay of her majesty to cast forth sentiments and expressions so base as to find no parallel in the whole range of the public press; and yet it was to be held a high crime and
520Lord Castlereagh
l.521 said, that the members for Somerset and Surrey had
l.521Mr. Alderman Wood
522 presented a similar petition from the county of Kent. The high sheriff, notwithstanding the requisition was signed by the most respectable inhabitants, had refused to convene a
522Mr. Honeywood
 denied that the distress was confined to the growers of corn. It was felt in the production of all articles. It extended to other countries, and especially to America, where the principles of the hon. member (Mr. Ricardo) had been pushed to their fullest extent. The hon. alderman alluded to the passing of Mr. Peel's bill, which, he contended, had produced all those evil effects, of which he had forewarned the House. The title of the bill ought to have been, "a bill to add one-third to the national debt; to add, in the same proportion, to all fixed incomes; and to subtract an equal amount from all the resources of productive capital and industry." As to the remedy which had been suggested by reducing the interest on the public debt, it was objectionable both in justice and policy. Even while parliament should be deliberating on such a measure, an immense portion of capital now vested in the funds would be transferred to other countries, never to return. Still, however he might disapprove of the late act, he should pause before he would advise its repeal, considering what had been since done to carry it into effect—how much had been already endured—and that we were now at peace, with the balance of trade improving in our favour.Mr. Alderman Heygate
541540 proceeded to explain his
541540Mr. Baring
 said, that the fact had been proved on oath.Lord Castlereagh
523 thought, that a more complete exemplification of the impolicy of the noble lord's bill had never been presented. It was now come to that pass, that when a requisition, signed by four or; five peers, and sundry other persons holding rank in the county, was presented to a high sheriff, it was refused to be complied with under the enactments of this act. This was not at all to be wondered at, when it was considered who the sheriffs were. They were nominated by the Crown, and the magistrates were under the same nomination. The lord lieutenant appointed them; and it frequently happened, that they elected those who agreed with them in political opinion. The system now acted upon came to this—that you cannot have a county meeting, unless you find five magistrates holding the same political opinions with yourself. The sheriff now, by his single fiat, took upon himself to determine whether or not a county meeting should be held. He would say, the sheriff had no right to take the object of the meeting into his consideration, before he complied with
523Dr. Lushington
 remarked upon some of the objects of the petition, and deprecated, in strong terms, any attempt to abrogate the Bank-payments act, which had been passed only two years ago, and also deprecated the resorting to any remedy for the national distress, which should be founded on a breach of the public faith. He could not contemplate any thing more unjust, or whose tendency would be more fatal. He begged those gentlemen who made such a proposal with the view of reaching the great fundholder, to consider what in such a case would be the state of the small fundholder, whose whole means of existence were dependent upon the observance of the public faith? He considered the proposition neither honourable nor useful; but, if any motion was founded on the petition, he would give it his anxious attention, as no one was more inclined to favour every inquiry which could tend to the relief of the country.Mr. Robinson
 was surprised that the right hon. gentleman had sat down without expressing more of his feelings oh the specific subject before the House. In what he had said with respect to the interest of the national debt, he agreed with the right hon. gentleman; and if there was one subject on which every honest and honourable man in the country were united, it was that; for that country could have no honesty and no honour, which, after passing through a war like the last, by borrowing money of some of its subjects, should in peace refuse to make good its engagements. He was sure the benefits calculated upon from such an expedient would not be realised, and, that in a country like this, one description of property could not be touched without endangering every other. The hon. gentleman would find, if the mortgage which the public creditors had on the property of the country were disregarded, that his own title-deeds would soon be worth nothing.—Mr. Baring
535s.s.s.s.534l.l.l.s.;s.l.l.l.533l.,l.s.532 resumed. Undoubtedly it had been proposed by many gentlemen to pay off the public debt by means of a sacrifice of property on all sides; and such a doctrine had even been supported by high authority in that House. He himself had always considered it impracticable. The sacrifice of general property must be at all times, and in all countries, attended with much danger. When his hon. friend spoke of impossibility, as the reason why such a plan should not be adopted, he would say, that he never considered it impossible to pay debts as long as the party owing them possessed a farthing of property. The petition brought the House to the consideration of the general concerns and state of the country; for although it presented a correct representation of the state of Birmingham, it was also a true picture of the whole nation. There was no interest in deeper distress than the agricultural interest; and that was certainly a most important consideration for the House, and most particularly for country gentlemen. For that reason he had been surprised to see the right hon. gentleman sit down without adverting to so interesting a topic. It was a serious thing, that the sixth year of peace should find the nation in such a state, that a speech from the throne represented no one of its interests to be in a state of prosperity. He was not to be considered as a party man upon this subject, and he hoped that all would come to it, without any of those differences of opinion, which arose from party motives. Nothing was so urgent and important as a strict examination into the causes of our present state—a state, he was convinced, not resulting from the cessation of war, for the petitioners themselves proved it. They stated that the year 1818 was a year of comparative prosperity; and that since that year their distresses had been accumulating. They also said, that their local distress originated in the great depression of the American market. The Americans had formerly sold their flour for 10 dollars, and could now get only three dollars and three quarters. The consequence of this was, that the manufacturers of Birmingham, who had worked more exclusively for the American market, felt a great diminution in the
535s.s.s.s.534l.l.l.s.;s.l.l.l.533l.,l.s.532Mr. Baring
 was of opinion, that much good would result from an inquiry. The petitioners stated, that the year 1818 was one of comparative prosperity. This was also the case with agriculture. This proved the union of the two interests, and that whilst the one flourished, the other prospered.Mr. Western
 stated the fact, that during a period of two years and a half the Bank had issued rive millions and a half of sovereigns, notwithstanding which, not one was to be seen in circulation.Mr. Atwood
539d.s.d.s.l.538s.,l.l.d.s.l.s.l.537s,l.l.s.l.s,l.s.l.d.l.l.s.s.,536 said, that if the House would indulge him for a few minutes, he should be desirous to make one or two allusions to what had fallen from his hon. friend below. The great point to which, his hon. friend had addressed himself as the origin of the prevailing distress. By some persons this was ascribed
539d.s.d.s.l.538s.,l.l.d.s.l.s.l.537s,l.l.s.l.s,l.s.l.d.l.l.s.s.,536Mr. Ricardo
542dsdssls1. remarked, that the difference between his hon. friend's opinion and his own was this, that he maintained the advance of the pound sterling with reference to the price of commodities to be only about 4 or 5 percent, which was equal to the difference between the price of gold at 4542dsdssls1.Mr. Ricardo
524 rose to present a petition from the merchants, manufacturers, and traders, of the town of Birmingham. To this important document he begged to call the serious attention of the House. It was proper to state that this petition was agreed upon at a very numerous meeting, held in the month of August last; but owing to the different adjournments of the House, there had not been any possibility of presenting it till the present time. The petitioners stated, that on the 12th of May last they did present a petition to the hon. House, praying that a solemn inquiry might be instituted by it into the causes of the national distress, and praying that some measures might be adopted for relieving it. They set forth, that it appeared to them no legislative measure had yet been adopted for the purposes of such relief, excepting only the appointment by parliament of a committee for the extension of the foreign trade; but they humbly submitted that the home trade was at all times a matter of paramount interest. The petitioners further stated, that the present state of their trade, and consequently of those numerous classes who were dependent upon it, was deplorable. In order to get more accurate information as to the state of Birmingham in this respect, a committee was appointed by the petitioners some time back to inquire into the consumption of meat, beer, and other necessaries in the town, as compared with the year 1818; and the result was, that a most material diminution of the consumption of such articles was found to have taken place, and this, it was unnecessary to add, had existed principally among the lower classes. At the present moment it was not his intention to enlarge upon the subjects to which the petitioners had referred. He would, however, say, that the public books of the country were a
524Mr. Dugdale
526 observed, that if similar inquiries to those made in Birmingham had been instituted in the south-west of the county of Stafford, the same results would have been found. He believed, though the petitioners only hinted at it, that if a committee should be appointed, a great part of the distress complained of would be found to have resulted from what had been, he would admit, very properly, done by government with respect to the metallic currency, and the limitation of issues from the batiks. He had, however, every reason to hope that confidence would soon be restored in this respect. He had heard from several gentlemen connected with the manufacturers in Birmingham, that a great deal of business had been done on paper credit, which must necessarily have been since reduced in proportion to the great reduction of issues from the country banks. This was a great check, and though it could not be said to operate at present, yet it had operated to a very considerable extent at the period when those limitations took place. The petitioners, it appeared, did not attribute the distress of which they complained, to the cessation of the demand for the articles in their trade, at the termination of the war; but they had not carried their inquiries farther back than two years. If they had carried them back for the last five years, he was of opinion that they would have found, that that cause had operated very materially in producing the distress which was now felt. When he considered the very great extent to which the trade, in articles of military furniture, had been carried on in Birmingham, the great quantity of swords, guns, stirrups, and other such articles which were constantly in demand; when he considered the large armaments which were fitted out in almost every part of Europe, and the liberal assistance which
526Mr. Littleton
 begged to explain, that he did not mean distinctly to propose a property tax, but had stated that it was just that some share of the public burdens should be laid on that monster of consumption, the funded interest.Mr. Littleton
525 thought it his duty to recommend the prayer of the petitioners to the most serious attention of the House. It was entitled to serious consideration, not merely from the number and respectability of the petitioners, but from the importance of the statements it contained. The petitioners had divided themselves into small parties, in order to ascertain, in the different parts of the town, the state of the consumption of articles of necessary use, and they
525Mr. Lawley
514 said, he did not wish to impeach the respectabiltty of the meeting at Epsom. All he maintained was, that those who received the opinion of a meeting of about 400 persons as the Opinion of the county of Surrey, laboured tinder a great delusion. The hon. gentleman had asked, why his (Mr. S. 's) friends had not attended the meeting? The fact was, that the language of the requisition, was so moderate, that although, as one of the members for the county, he thought it his duty to be present, in order to give any explanation that might be required of his conduct, he had discouraged many who had applied to him on the subject from attending. The requisition was merely for a meeting to petition for the discontinuance of further
514Mr. H. Sumner
 said, that if what he had alleged was the real state of the case, he would wish to know whether the noble lord meant to adopt as his maxim the ob servation of one of his colleagues, namely, "sufficient to the day was the evil thereof." The number of unemployed hands in the country was daily increasing, and the weight of taxation was bearing the farmer to the ground. If government would go into the examination of these things, it should have his support. This was a time that called on every man to forget party, and to join heart and hand to endeavour to extricate the country from its embarrassments. Some gentlemen were afraid of parliamentary reform, some were afraid of Catholic emancipation, and others had some similar cause of apprehension; but he believed the time was coming, when they would have nothing to do, and, therefore, nothing to fear. If that moment did arrive, men of property and consequence might feel themselves compelled to resort to measures at which they would now tremble.Mr. Curwen
529l.l.;l.l.s.s.528l.527 having been requested to support the prayer of this petition, could not suffer it to pass without a few observations. The iron trade was a most important branch of our manufactures; and from the skill and capital engaged in
529l.l.;l.l.s.s.528l.527Mr. Curwen,
531 wished to keep good faith with the public creditor, if that,
531Mr. Curwen
 presented petitions from Hungerford and Newbury, complaining of the distresses under which the petitioners laboured, and praying for the discontinuance of any further proceedings against her majesty, and the restoration of her name to the Liturgy. Adverting to the depression of trade at Newbury, the hon. gentleman observed, that that place had formerly returned members to parliament, but had been relieved from doing so by its own prayer. At that period members of parliament received wages from their constituents. If such were the case at present—if other boroughs, which, like Newbury, had lost their trade, were compelled to pay wages to their representatives, he believed that one and all would petition to be disfranchised. But circumstances were now very different. If many of the boroughs had lost their regular trade, they had found a new, but he feared a contraband one, although it did not appear to be at all offensive to the gentlemen of the Treasury. He trusted that parliament would attend to the public feeling, which had been so strongly expressed with reference to her majesty. He was not one of those who held that the old maxim "Vox populi vox Dei," was to be acknowledged on all occasions. Sometimes he knew that the people were mistaken. For instance, in the cry some years ago, of "No popery;" a cry encouraged by ministers themselves, and to the prevalence of which they were indebted for their power. Such an expression of popular sentiment was far from being identified with consummate wisdom. But, whenever the expression of public feeling was reasonable, even whenever it was harmless, it ought to be attended to. He was persuaded that the public tranquillity would not be restored until her majesty's name was restored to the Liturgy.Mr. Monck
 observed, that the fact stated by his hon. friend, with respect to the fate of the sovereigns issued by the Bank, afforded conclusive evidence of the consequence of an excessive issue of paper in driving gold out of the country; for it appeared, that of the five millions and a half of sovereigns which the Bank had issued, no less than four millions had been recoined by the treasury of France.Mr. Hume
 called upon the noble lord distinctly to state what papers were in the pay of her majesty.Mr. Hume
 said, that with respect to the attack on the witnesses at Dover, that circumstance never came within his knowledge. With respect to certain witnesses having been on the road, he did not know that fact, and he did not believe it.Mr. Denman
Castlereagh518517ex parte516 said, that as so much had been said on the subject of the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy, he felt it his duty to take this, the earliest opportunity in his power of declaring his sentiments. From what had lately occurred, and more particularly after the extraordinary speech of the noble lord opposite the night before last, it appeared to him more than ever necessary that the people should press for the restoration of her majesty's name to the liturgy. It was very painful for him to be obliged to say, that since the abandonment of the bill of Pains and Penalties, there had been more unjust, more iniquitous, and more cruel calumnies heaped up against the Queen than even before the introduction of that measure. Was it not time to require that justice should be done the Queen, when her prosecutors had the hardihood to boast of the bundles of depositions containing evidence against her majesty, which they had refrained from producing at the trial? Could any thing be more despicable than this declaration of the existence of evidence which they flared not produce where it could have been rebutted? Although the proceedings against the Queen had commenced in her condemnation before proof was offered—although they were carried on with the mean and miserable shuffling of withholding from her majesty, during the process, the rank and title which was
Castlereagh518517ex parte516Mr. Denman
519 rose to order. He had spoken as a member of parliament, and
519Mr. Denman
 presented a petition from the freeholders of Surrey. It prayed for economical reform, the abolition of useless offices, and the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy. No county was more loyal than the county of Surrey; and he believed that the prayer of their petition was that of nine-tenths of the people of this country. Whatever taunts might be thrown out against petitioning by the noble lord opposite, he hoped the people would never be prevented from exercising that valuable and constitutional right.Mr. Denison
515 said, he never witnessed an expression of greater disapprobation of the parliamentary conduct of a repre-
515Mr. Maberly
 said, that ministers ought to have resigned their places rather I than have instituted the proceedings against the Queen.Mr. W. L. Maberly,
530 believed the allegations
530Mr. W. Peel
 said, if the House thought that the noble lord had exceeded the freedom of debate, then he could have no hesitation in saying that the noble lord was disorderly; but he did not think that the passage of the speech alluded to, conveyed an attack of a personal kind.The Speaker
 said, that, generally speaking, he thought it was the duty of the sheriff to call a meeting, when he was satisfied with the respectability of the requisition. In this instance, the sheriff, after some deliberation, had felt it his duty to decline calling the meeting, because he thought the general feeling of the county was against the meeting; and it should be remarked, that when he had so refused, there could not be found five magistrates in the county to convene the meeting.Sir E. Knatchbull
 avowed himself one of the requisitionists alluded to. The high sheriff had only to look to the number and respectability of the signatures, without any reference to the sentiments of the county. This was one more instance of the impolicy of the noble lord's bill on this subject.Sir R. Wilson
 deplored, that a period should have arrived when county meetings were treated with contempt. It was the only mode by which the people could state their wrongs and speak their wishes.Sir W. De Crespigny
 bore testimony to the respectability of the meeting. United as the country evidently was, as to the expediency of restoring her majesty's name to the Liturgy, he thought it would be hardly possible for the House to resist so unanimous a declaration.Lord Althorp
s552551550549ldslds.ldsld.sl54854798£8,858,49492£3,092,996
98£8,858,49492£3,092,9961061,512,475Prussia31854,413
1061,512,475Prussia31854,4131106,198,729Russia441,580,702
1106,198,729Russia441,580,702107330,498Sweden616132,146
107330,498Sweden616132,14604816,791Denmark & Norway80525,734
04816,791Denmark & Norway80525,734d.d.s.s.£.d.d.s.s.£
d.d.s.s.£.d.d.s.s.£1819.1817, 1818,1801.1799, 1800,
1819.1817, 1818,1801.1799, 1800,
98£8,858,49492£3,092,996
98£8,858,49492£3,092,9961061,512,475Prussia31854,413
1061,512,475Prussia31854,4131106,198,729Russia441,580,702
1106,198,729Russia441,580,702107330,498Sweden616132,146
107330,498Sweden616132,14604816,791Denmark & Norway80525,734
04816,791Denmark & Norway80525,734d.d.s.s.£.d.d.s.s.£
d.d.s.s.£.d.d.s.s.£1819.1817, 1818,1801.1799, 1800,
1819.1817, 1818,1801.1799, 1800,546dss545544543 rose and said;—Mr. Speaker, I hold in my hand a petition from the merchants, ship-owners, and magistrates of Miramichi, in the province of New Brunswick, setting forth the vital importance of the timber trade to the inhabitants of the British provinces in North America, and praying that this House will not suffer it to be placed on a footing less favourable to them than it is at present. It may be proper to premise, that such is the importance of Miramichi, that of 1,520 British vessels employed in the timber trade with our North American colonies, in the year 1819, no less than 297 loaded in that port alone—Statements from the inhabitants of the colonies themselves, how far their prosperity is likely to be affected by any legislative measures of the mother country, bearing upon their productions and commerce, are highly important, as they serve to correct misapprehensions and errors, into which, at this distance, we are apt to fall, for want of authentic information respecting interests so remote. The truth of this remark was never more strongly exemplified than in the present instance; for never was there a greater discordance than between the facts stated in this petition, and the report of a committee of the House of Lords, made in the last session of parliament. The variance between them is so great, that justice to these petitioners, and to the other inha-
s552551550549ldslds.ldsld.sl54854798£8,858,49492£3,092,996
98£8,858,49492£3,092,9961061,512,475Prussia31854,413
1061,512,475Prussia31854,4131106,198,729Russia441,580,702
1106,198,729Russia441,580,702107330,498Sweden616132,146
107330,498Sweden616132,14604816,791Denmark & Norway80525,734
04816,791Denmark & Norway80525,734d.d.s.s.£.d.d.s.s.£
d.d.s.s.£.d.d.s.s.£1819.1817, 1818,1801.1799, 1800,
1819.1817, 1818,1801.1799, 1800,
98£8,858,49492£3,092,996
98£8,858,49492£3,092,9961061,512,475Prussia31854,413
1061,512,475Prussia31854,4131106,198,729Russia441,580,702
1106,198,729Russia441,580,702107330,498Sweden616132,146
107330,498Sweden616132,14604816,791Denmark & Norway80525,734
04816,791Denmark & Norway80525,734d.d.s.s.£.d.d.s.s.£
d.d.s.s.£.d.d.s.s.£1819.1817, 1818,1801.1799, 1800,
1819.1817, 1818,1801.1799, 1800,546dss545544543Mr. Marryat
 said, he had only contended that the petitioners ought to be allowed to remain in the same state that they were in at present. If the rates were at all lowered, the petitioners must inevitably be ruined.Mr. Marryat
 said, he could assure the hon. member that there existed no such intention on the part of government [Hear!]. The regulations made by the marquis of Hastings were in full force, and it was the intention of government that they should remain so.Mr. Bathurst
558557556555 said, he rose to present a petition, complaining of the conduct of the high-sheriff of the county of Chester, at a late public meeting, which had been signed by 300 freeholders in the course of two days. As it would not be in his power to be present at the discussion of the motion relative to the conduct of sheriffs, which the hon. member for Northumberland meant to introduce on Wednesday next, he would take that opportunity of stating his opinion on the subject. Notwithstanding it was a question intimately connected with the rights of the subject, which appeared to him on some late occasions to have been materially invaded, he would not have troubled the House with his sentiments on it, if he had not deemed it to be his imperative duty, fearlessly,
558557556555Lord Belgrave
 observed, that from what he had heard of the conduct of the meeting, the high sheriff had acted with partiality, and the parties who were the cause of the uproar which prevented a noble earl from being heard, had acted in a manner extremely disgraceful to themselves. He hoped the House would vindicate its privileges, and order the high sheriff to attend at the bar.Mr. Philips
, although he did not think that the privileges of the House were endangered on this occasion, must fairly say, that he condemned the recent conduct of several high sheriffs. Those, gentlemen could not do any thing more detrimental, or more contrary to constitutional principles, than to refuse to call a county meeting on a requisition properly signed, and when there were no circumstances which could induce them to consider such a meeting as likely to be attended by consequences dangerous to the public peace. He trusted that it would be a lesson to sheriffs, whatever might be their political opinions, not to endeavour to prevent the people from exercising one of their most valuable privileges.Mr Stuart Worthy
 explained, that the high sheriff had the command of a corps of Yeomanry embodied soon after the 16th of August, 1819. He merely mentioned this because, at the period to which he alluded, the same care was taken in making these appointments that was now! taken among the professors of exclusive loyalty in keeping every thing for themselves. To the high sheriff of Chester he had imputed no motives, but merely related a plain fact. His conduct had led to a protest on the part of several gentlemen who were present.Lord Belgrave
ll567 had reason to hope, that in the estimates of
ll567The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he would not vote for any supplies until every possible economy had been resorted to, and till proper estimates were laid on the table. He now gave notice, that when the votes for the army should be proposed, he would not agree to them unless full estimates were previously laid before the House.Colonel Davies
s.l564ll said, that he had only one alteration to propose. In the year 1816, several excise duties which had been granted during the war, were continued for a term of five years and, would expire in July, 1821; and his object was, to renew these duties for one year. The duty he proposed to continue thus from year to year was that on foreign spirits, which would have the effect of raising this branch of the annual revenue from 3,000,000s.l564llThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
572 admitted the existence of distress in this country, but observed, that in Ireland the case was infinitely worse; for there the agriculturists were reduced to the lowest state of depression; and as to manufacturers, there was now left scarcely any thing which deserved the name, except one
572Mr. D. Browne
 objected to the resolution, as he was determined not to vote away any more of the public money until the agricultural distress had been fully taken into consideration. He wished to ask, whether the proposed grant was for the old annual malt tax, or whether it was a revival of the new tax. If the latter he should oppose it.Mr. Western
576 did not rise to object to the motion, but to observe, in the first place, that it would have been more consistent with parliamentary practice, if the hon. gentleman had waited till the documents were laid on the table, before he commenced his general remarks upon the character and functions of the board of Control. The hon. gentleman quarrelled, first, with the particular appointment in question, then with the construction put
576Mr. Bathurst
578 contended, that the right hon. gentleman's appointment was an evident violation of the act of parliament. All his predecessors had vacated their seats on receiving it; and he could see no security against the object of the act being defeated, if so important an office as the one in question could be held without vacating a seat during the session of parliament, on pretence that no salary was received during that period. Such a precedent might be extended to other offices, and the salaries taken when ever parliament was not sitting. But without reference to this possibility, the appointment in question was a constant source of influence. Many would be very glad to exchange the lucrative advantages of office for the enjoyment of extensive patronage. For his own part, he had no doubt he should materially increase his influence among his constituents, by distributing among them I now and then a few writerships and cadetships, and he would do the right hon. gentleman the justice to believe that he would prefer the acquisition of influence to that of money. He should be sorry to accuse him of disingenuousness, when: he said that no patronage was attached to his office, because it belonged, in the first instance, to another body, with whom the Board of Control maintained a civil understanding. The president of that board, he understood, had always in effect a greater portion of patronage than was annexed to any other office in the gift of the Crown. When lord Melville, a distinguished Scotchman, was at the head of the board, aspiring young Scotchmen were to be found in every corner of India. Under one of his successors, Ireland had sent forth her sons to the same quarter; and now lie presumed the right hon. gentleman meant to give England her due share. At all events, he trusted
578Mr. M. Fitzgerald
 explained the routine of the business attached to the board to which the hon. member is secretary. There was no salary attached to the office; and as to the argument respecting patronage, he should not condescend to reply to it. There could certainly be no doubt that the patronage of the Crown created obligation; but the same argument would apply to ribbands and all other honours which emanated from the King. In short, if the argument could hold, there would be no point to which it might not be carried.Mr. T. Courtemay
 would not have troubled the House on this question, had it not been for the allusion just made to his right hon. friend, the late president of the Board of Control. Where, in the name of God, had the hon. gentleman heard of this rumour? Why had he mentioned it? Was the character of public men to be thus loosely sported with? His right hon. friend would be the last man in the world to receive the emoluments of an office, the duties of which he did not perform.Lord Binning
579 said, he could not envy the feelings of the learned gentleman who could impute to his right hon. friend, in his absence, a participation in so corrupt an arrangement. Where was his authority? Who had dared to state it? He
579Mr. S. Bourne
 wished to know what was to be done with this salary.Colonel Davies
 said, that it would he a saving out of the sum granted by the East India company.Mr. Bathurst
 had heard with much surprise the principles on the subject of the timber trade advocated by the hon. members who had presented the petitions. They certainly were directly the reverse of the principles laid down in the Report of the Lords' committee, which was acknowledged to be a most comprehensive and correct view of the matter.Mr. Ricardo
ex parte561560, while he allowed that it was the bounden duty of that House carefully to watch over the sacred right of petitioning, denied that the present was a case which called for its interference. What were the facts of the case? The high sheriff of Cheshire, in: compliance with a requisition made to him, had called a meeting of the county, it which he himself presided, as he had
ex parte561560Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
559 declared, that of all the rights possessed by the people, the right of addressing the Crown and of petitioning parliament was the most valuable; and that while he had a seat in that House, he would never allow an attempt to be made to infringe that right without reprobation. Some years ago, certain bills had passed with reference to the subject of public meetings, which were considered by the majority of that House to be necessary for the tranquillity of the country. At that period he had not the honour of a seat in parliament, or he should have expressed his opinion in hostility to those bills—They had considerably limited the right of petitioning; for they left to the high sheriff, the lord lieutenant, or other constituted authorities, to call meetings of the people. He would not now ask if a high sheriff was bound to call a meeting, on a requisition to that effect being presented to
559Mr. Bright
 asked, whether the petitioner had applied to the British authorities abroad?Mr. Goulburn
573s.d.s.s. conceived that a great portion of the distress which was felt by the agriculturists arose from the excess of production above the consumption—that consumption being owing, in a great degree, to the reduction of the wages of labour. The farmer was obliged to be a seller for what, he could get, and was thus in some sort at the mercy of the consumer. He deprecated the idea going forth to the public, that the House possessed the means of applying an effectual remedy for the distresses which had been alluded to in the petition which had been presented to the House last night. The remedy must only be looked for in the gradual increase of the prosperity of the country. The accounts of a brisk demand for goods in Manchester proved that the assertion of the distresses of Birmingham being local, was not altogether incorrect. The manufacturers of Manchester raised the price of their goods in proportion to the demand; if, for instance, 100 pieces of goods were ordered, which were sold at 10573s.d.s.s.Mr. Gladstone
 vindicated the Report of the Lords' committee. It was one of the most useful reports that had ever been made.Mr. J. P. Grant
, seeing the president of the Board of Control in his place, begged to ask him a question relative to a report which was prevalent in India, namely, that it was the intention of his majesty's government to put in full force the censorship of the press, which had been removed by the marquis of Hastings. He wished to know whether such was the intention of his majesty's government?Mr. Lambton
 expressed himself perfectly satisfied with the answer of the right hon. gentleman.Mr. Lambton
568 thought that, in the present distressed state of the country, the House ought not to vote one shilling of the public money without the estimates. If it were true that the country was to receive no relief either from an alteration of the present system of the currency, or from a change in the distribution of the taxes, he would ask from what source relief could come, but from the most rigid economy on the part of ministers? He was one of those who could not see why one part of the community should be drained and exhausted merely in order to pay another part. This was a system which might go on for some time; but, far from enduring for ever, they would soon find that not only would the capital of the country be ruined, but her spirit be exhausted. He lamented to hear the wild language which had been thrown out last night, when an hon. member had declared, that the taxes paid to the fund-holder were a mortgage on all the land, on the church establishment, and on all the property of the country; and that they were to pay to the last shilling, to show whether they were honest men or not. As if it was possible, in any society, that so strange an alteration could take place with common consent, that every one who was well-born, well-bred and educated, and who filled a station in the institutions of the country, should give up the whole of their property, in order to fulfil an engagement, which finally would be ruinous even to the fund-holder. These things startled him, when they came from gentlemen who were so well versed in the theories of economics. It was manifest that these opinions,
568Mr. Lockhart
570lll569 thought that some misunderstanding existed as to the speeches which were delivered last night by two hon. friends of his. He would shortly state the reason why he should most certainly support his hon. friend in the call which he proposed to make for a division of the House. He had himself, in common with many other members, presented he knew not how many petitions to that House, praying for a reduction of some of the present taxes. With how little effect those petitions had been introduced, it was but too unnecessary for him to state. He had understood to-night, from the speech of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, that he meant to continue the tax on spirits only. If, however, he had since understood the hon. chairman rightly, the proposition appeared to be to continue the tax on malt also. The proceeding of the right hon. gentleman, therefore, he could hardly consider as fair. That tax upon malt was agreed to be imposed by the House, upon the faith that in twelve months after the cessation of the war the tax should cease. He did think, that with so many petitions for the reduction of taxation before them, they ought not to grant the continuation of a single tax, until ministers explicitly stated what it was they intended to do. The chancellor of the exchequer, when asked by him some evenings ago what reduction it was proposed to make, did not think it worth while to give him any answer. He should therefore persist in opposing the resolution, seeing it was
570lll569Mr. Hume
ll said, that the storekeeper at Dover, whose salary during the war was 100llMr. Hume
lll575 to submit to the House the motion of which he had given notice, and of which the object was, to ascertain whether the president of the board of Control, had vacated his seat. He had no doubt, from the examination which he had made, that, if the appointment of the right hon. gentleman corresponded with the time of taking his seat, he was free from the penalty. But that could not be known to the House without the warrant of the right hon. gentleman's appointment. When any motion for reform was made from his side of the House, there was an outcry by the other side against innovation. Yet, by the other side of the House, were the most dangerous innovations made on the constitution. Not one of the four right hon. gentlemen, whom he saw opposite, could hold a seat in that House by the act of queen Anne, or could vote away public money, as they had done in the division which had just taken place. The great objection to Mr. Fox's bill had been, that it gave patronage to the Crown, and occasioned expenses to the India company. When the board of Control was originally constituted, Mr. Pitt gave a distinct pledge to the country that the commissioners should perform the duties without pay or salary, and that they should have no patronage from the East India company. From the year 1784 to 1793, the commissioners had no salaries, and conse-
lll575Mr. Hume
l said, that no such thing had occurred. The storekeeper at Dover had not 500lMr. Ward
lll begged to observe, that in the Ordnance department, the salaries and allowances of all the higher offices had been reduced. His own, for instance, had been reduced to about 600lllMr. R. Ward
566l565 said, he had come down to the House with the intention of opposing any supply, had it been proposed by the right Hon. gentleman. He had not opposed the Speaker's leaving the chair, because he did not suspect that any vote of public money was intended; but seeing now the drift of the right hon. gentleman's resolution, he should propose, as an amendment to it, that the chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again. The House would recollect the grievances which had been stated last night from all quarters of the country, particularly from the great and formerly flourishing town of Birmingham. In the conversation which that petition had produced, opinions had been elicited which had never before been heard in that House. A most honourable and respectable country gentleman had proposed to deprive the fundholder of part of his rights, calling him "a devouring monster of consumption." Another hon. friend of his had hailed with joy this attack on the fundholder, and had expressed his anxiety to be at it. The chancellor of the exchequer might laugh at this, but what would Mr. Pitt have said, if he had heard such opinions respecting the propriety of setting one part of the community at war with another? Every gentleman who spoke last night on this subject had pressed on the House the necessity of retrenchment, but nothing in the way of relief was even hinted at by government—they heard no plan for the amelioration of distress—night after night they had before them the old story of committees of supply and ways and means; but they heard not one word about reform—not one word upon the necessity of retrenchment. Under such
566l565Mr. Creevey
 said, he did not mean to insinuate that the patronage enjoyed was turned into money, but it was presented by the directors upon an understanding, and was, of course, used in the ordinary way. It should be remembered, also, that cadetships and writerships were provisions for life, and of more value than a few thousand pounds which the president might himself receive. He was inclined to think, upon a fair construction of the different acts, that the office must be considered as one of profit and emolument.Mr. Creevey
 said, he should not divide the House upon the malt tax, but upon the resolution which proposed to continue some excise duties.Mr. Creevey
 said, the sheriff having been requested to call a meeting, and having complied with that request, and an amendment being proposed at the meeting by earl Grosvenor, the matter for consideration was, did he refuse to put that amendment, or did he put it in the negative? If he did, there certainly was no law to punish him, and the only course was to call him to the bar of the House—a proposition which, if the noble lord, or some other member, did not introduce, he would himself submit to the House. The hon. gentleman had alluded to a scene which took place in that House at the close of the last session. He had stated that hisses were resorted to on that occasion. Now, he was present, and could affirm that there were no hisses. With respect to other demonstrations of feeling, such as cries of "Hear! hear!" and "Shame! shame!" he was happy to be recorded as one of those who used them; because, never was there a scene so injurious to the dignity of the Crown, so disgraceful to the character of the administration that sanctioned it, or so insulting to the members of that House.Mr. Creevey
 said, he had made no insinuation against the character of the right hon. gentleman, but had put what he conceived to be a fair question. Political malignity to that right hon. gentleman's predecessor he felt none. The soreness which the two hon. members had exhibited was no very great compliment to their right hon. friend.Mr. Denman
 stated, that he had made no insinuation. He had only alluded to that which was generally reported, and which had appeared in the newspapers.Mr. Denman
 wished to know, if the right hon. gentleman did not receive the salary usually attached to his office, what became of it? It was rumoured, that the right hon. gentleman received no part of it himself, but reserved it for another right hon. gentleman who had lately held the office, and who was now absent from the country [Cries of "No, no"]. If that were the case, was it distributed amongst the other commissioners? Or was it saved to the public?Mr. Denman
563 stated, that applications had been ineffectually made to lord Clancarty and lord Castlereagh.563Mr. Denman
 said, he was quite aware that the full extent of the prayer of the petition could not be complied with. He thought, however, the case ought to be looked into.Mr. Denman
 rose to present a petition, which he had received by that day's post, from a person who was perfectly unknown to him. The petitioner, whose name was W. M'Dougall, stated that he was detained a prisoner at Ghent, by the foreign authorities upon a charge of forging: a letter of credit in the name of a bank in Scotland, and obtaining money thereon in France. The petitioner denied the charge, and stated that, by being detained a prisoner at Ghent, he was deprived of the means of proving his innocence. He thought the subject worth the attention of the authorities at home, and entitled to immediate inquiry.Mr. Denman
 presented a similar petition from Montreal.Mr. T. Wilson
 said, that although he was present at the meeting, he was not sufficiently near the high sheriff to hear all the proceedings. He was sorry to observe, that those proceedings were not so quiet as it could have been wished they had been. At the same time, if any thing illegal had occurred, he thought the proper mode of redress would have been to appeal to the laws. He could answer for the independence of the present high sheriff of Cheshire, and that he would not be swayed in the discharge of his duty by any party feeling. That gentleman exerted himself as much as possible to keep order at the meeting, but in vain. With respect to the amendment which had been proposed by a noble earl, and to the consequent proceedings, he repeated, that he was not near enough to the chair to form an accurate opinion.Mr. Egerton
 did not see any thing reprehensible in the manner in which the question had been put. He bore his testimony, as an East India director to the efficient and cordial manner in which the late president of the Board of Control had exercised the duties of his office. He had heard, with great satisfaction, that the company would be benefitted to the amount of the salary by the present appointment.Mr. Astell
s. replied, that it was the same old tax of 1s.Mr. Huskisson
571 said, that the proposition before them was simply this—to grant the annual malt-tax for one year in the same way as it ever had been granted since the reign of queen Anne. As a supply was granted, to withhold the ways and means could only tend to plunge the government into confusion. He thought
571Mr. Huskisson
l577 acquitted the right hon. gentleman of all suspicion that he received any salary for the office. But the question to be considered was, whether the gift of that office did not increase the power of the Crown? No one could suppose that the right hon. gentleman would support administration any more than he had done before; but the question was upon the principle, and with-
l577Mr. W. Smith
 wished to make a few observations on the subject of the committee of supply, of which he had been a member. It had been stated to have been a farce, upon no better grounds than that few members had been in attendance. The fact he admitted, and lamented as much as the honourable member for Appleby (Mr. Creevey) himself, but it did not follow that public duty was therefore neglected, or mismanaged. There had remained members of as great integrity and independence, as any members of that House. If the proceedings of the committee had, therefore, been a farce, they had been made so by the hon. member himself (Mr. Creevey), who had divided the committee five times without any prospect of success.Sir F. Blake
553 made a few observations on the assertion of the petitioners, that all the timber brought to this country in British ships, from America, was
553Sir Isaac Coffin
lll554 presented a petition from the operative braziers of the metropolis, praying for the restoration of the Queen's name to the Liturgy. In presenting the petition, he took the opportunity to contradict the reports which had been spread to the prejudice of the Queen, and these petitioners, relative to the sums of money
lll554Sir R. Wilson
 was of opinion that the House had a right to interfere in a case of this nature. If sheriffs were to be permitted to invest themselves with this authority over county meetings, and to refuse, on the ground of their own will and caprice, to put any reasonable proposition which might be offered to them by those who were duly qualified to attend, there would at once be an end to those privileges, the exercise of which was reserved to the people by the first principles of the constitution. It would be idle to talk of the right of petition, if such proceedings were permitted to pass without receiving the censure of the House.Sir. J. Newport
 was glad to hear from the right hon. gentleman opposite that the distress complained of was exaggerated. He hoped the right hon. gentleman would take an opportunity of stating what were the districts which enjoyed prosperity. With respect to the estimates, he was willing to allow that in time of war, they could not be got ready by the opening of parliament. But now that we were at peace, he saw no reasonable objection to pursuing such a course. They ought to be taken into consideration before the session, if ministers had any view to retrenchment, without being driven to it by parliament. He strongly objected to the manner in which the business of the House was transacted. It was not uncommon to see forty or fifty bills go through the different stages at the end of a session, when there were scarcely any members present. The consequence was, that the bills passed in so defective a state that they were obliged to be corrected in the next session. He recollected a bill having passed both Houses to impose a duty upon madder; in which it was afterwards discovered that the word "madder" had been entirely left out. An hon. friend near him reminded him of another case, in which a bill had passed confirming the sentence of a man who was to be imprisoned for six months.—"The half of which," it stated, "was to go to the King." The other branch of the legislature had complained that bills were sent up to them so late, that, as they had not time to examine them, they refused to pass them at all. Such facts as these must tend to disgrace the House in the eyes of the country. He hoped this subject would be taken into consideration without reference to the party from whence it came, as he disclaimed all feeling of hostility in pressing it upon the attention of gentlemen opposite.Sir J. Newport
 said, that a most iniquitous system of regulating and collecting the taxes prevailed. He should, in a short time, submit a motion to the House, on the subject. He would prove, that there were gross defalcations, and that many of the defaulters were still in the employment of government. Without a complete change of the system, it would be impossible to make the revenue equal to the expenditure.Sir W. De Crespigny
 understood the act of Anne to have been passed, not so much for the purpose of depriving the Crown of any influence which it might derive from the offices which it held in its gift, as for the purpose of affording the constituents of any member who might accept office an opportunity of deciding whether they would re-elect him.Lord Althorp
583 did hope his hon. friend, the member for Cumberland, had risen, to explain some misapprehension of his meaning on a former night. To reduce the interest of the national debt would
583Mr. Grenfell
 said, he was anxious to state that he concurred in all the opinions which had been expressed respecting this bill by his noble friend, and he was the more anxious not to give a silent vote, because he had on all previous occasions resisted all general, undefined, and, as they appeared to him, visionary plans of what were called parliamentary reform. The reason he approved of the present bill was, that it applied a proper punishment to an acknowledged abuse. Any plan of safe and practical reform, directed as this measure had been, and limited to a proper object, should at all times have his hearty concurrence.Mr. Grenfell
585, of Galway, objected altogether to the principle of this bill, and declared his determination to resist it in every stage. It set out with reciting what was an untruth, namely, the prevalence of bribery and corruption at the last general election for Grampound. Now it was known that the two or three last elections which had intervened since the acts of bribery were committed, were conducted in an unexceptionable manner. Whatever, therefore, might have been the former transgressions of any of the electors of Grampound, they had been since amply redeemed by their subsequent conduct. He was hostile to every species of reform, in the manner in which, it was called for by certain persons. In the particular instance of Grampound, before they tried this summary punishment, they should apply the remedy provided by the existing law, and administer the bribery oath. He could not consent to a disfranchisement for ever of the des-
585Mr. Martin
 approved of the bill, because it went to remedy a practical evil. As to the comparison between Grampound and the Bank of England, he contended, that if a blot appeared on the charter of the Bank, it should not be held sacred, after the powers intrusted to it had been abused. He thought the only way in which parliamentary reform could safely take place was, that wherever an evil was proved to exist, a suitable remedy should be applied.Mr. Wilson
587 said, that upon the general question of parliamentary reform he had so often declared his sentiments, that it was unnecessary for him now to repeat them. Suffice it to say, that he entirely concurred upon that question in the sentiments of the right hon. member for Liverpool (Mr. Canning), whose absence he forcibly lamented, and who had: so ably and unanswerably reviewed the subject of Reform in his eloquent speech to his constituents. The practice of the represen-
587Mr. Davies Gilbert
589588 said, that the honourable gentleman seemed afraid that the country should have a more free and perfect system of representation; now, he differed so much with the hon. gentleman, that he lamented that the people of England did not enjoy a fair system of representation—that the feelings of the country were not fairly represented in that House—that (in the language of Mr. Burke) it did not possess "the spirit or essence of a British House of Commons." The hon. member had acknowledged the gross corruption of Grampound, and admitted that the franchise should be taken from them. But to whom did he propose it
589588Mr. Philips
594593592prima facie591 said, he did not conceive, that by voting for a bill for the disfranchisement of a borough in which bribery was notorious, and for transferring the elective franchise to a populous town, he was any more giving a pledge to what was called parliamentary reform, than he should have done if he had voted
594593592prima facie591The Hon. J. W. Ward
596595 said he had no desire to enter into those exact and laboured calculations, which an honourable gentleman had favoured them with, of the precise proportion which the population of the different counties bore to the House of Commons. Whether or no, it was to be proposed that the present system was to be done away with altogether, or whether they were to sit there, as a cortes, to inquire if a more equal system of representation might be adopted, he should only say, that he was adverse, and ever should be adverse, to any general change. But here, as had been said by his hon. friend who spoke last, a practical and certain good was offered and might readily be effected. The hon. member for Galway, alone, had ventured to speak in favour of Grampound. But, could it be fit, after the glaring and undisguised bribery which had been proved to have existed in that borough, that it should still send members to parliament? The cases of Cricklade, Shoreham, and Aylesbury were, in some particulars, essentially different from the present. For himself, he never knew a borough, where
596595Mr. Wynn
598597 wished to state the grounds upon which he was inclined to-prefer the measure which had been suggested by his hon. friend under the gallery (Mr. D. Gilbert), The question which
598597Mr. Robinson
 strenuously supported the principle of the bill. He entered into a history of the conduct of government towards the labouring classes of the people since the time of Henry 8th, and pointed out the justice and good policy of giving to the manufacturing classes their due weight in the state.Mr. Maxwell
600, while he fully concurred in the propriety of applying some remedy, thought the House was bound to look to the consequences which would probably result from the measure which they should now adopt. Looking to the question now before the House as a practical question, he wished to bring it to a practical result. There were not wanting gentlemen who would consider the loss of this measure as so much gain; because, if nothing were done in this case, the refusal of the House to apply a remedy to an admitted grievance would furnish additional ground for complaint. What he wished the House to consider, therefore, was, the practical result of this measure, and in order to secure a practical benefit, he thought they ought not to take a wider range in applying a remedy, than the necessity of the case required. They were bound to look to what parliament bad done in former instances, and to apply such a remedy as was calculated to introduce as little innovation as possible into the existing state of the representation. This was the first instance of a system of reform of transferring the elective franchise: from small boroughs to large and populous parts of the country. His hon.
600Mr. Bathurst
 observed, with reference to one of the clauses, that it declared the present provision to be in bar of all other claims as well as of dower. If the Queen were a consenting party to this bill, such an arrangement might be unobjectionable; but it did not appear just to deprive her of any right, where she declined receiving: what was tendered in lieu of it.Mr. Baring
 said, the words were unnecessary. The Queen Consort had no title to dower, inasmuch as the Crown lands were not subject to it. It was considered better to make the arrangement co-extensive with her majesty's life, because she was entitled to a similar annuity by her marriage settlement.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 would not have adverted to the point, had it not been for the novel circumstance of their now proceeding to grant an annuity to a person who refused to accept it. In the event of her surviving his majesty, she might no longer have the same reason for that refusal.Mr. Baring
 supported the extension of the right to the town of Leeds. He thought its adoption would give satisfaction to the country.Mr. Alderman Heygate
 was of opinion that this ought to be done by a special act as it appeared that the Queen's rights had been affected by some omission or neglect. It might be a great hardship to render that a provision for life which she now refused, as implying a sacrifice of character, but might hereafter, under different circumstances, be disposed to receive, if granted in any other form. He could see no objection to grant the present annuity for his majesty's life, and, in the event of the Queen's surviving him, to place the provision on a different footing.Mr. Baring
 was at issue with the right hon. gentleman as to its being neither an omission nor a mistake in the act. If she was not considered entitled to any provision either as princess of Wales or Queen Consort, her rights as a subject must be taken into consideration; and she would then be entitled to her equity on her marriage contract. She had a right to insist on the grant or execution of the letters patent, or on some other instrument, to carry that grant or those letters patent into effect,Mr. Bernal
l maintained that her majesty could nave no claim upon the grounds suggested by the hon. gentleman. Though her majesty might have some difficulty in accepting the grant of 50,000lThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
603, before the question was put to the vote, thought it necessary to make a few remarks upon the objections which had been urged against the motion. In the first place, he should endeavour to rescue his hon. friend (Mr. Ward) from the imputation which the president of the Board of Control had attempted to cast upon him; namely, that any hon. member who should support the present, or any proposition of reform, was exposing the constitution to serious danger; as, if the principle of reform were once admitted, no one could say to what length that principle might be carried: on the contrary, he felt that a member might consistently vote for his proposition, and yet resist any general plan of reform, or refuse his support to any measure of this nature, unless where a similar chasm was created by similar corruption, which chasm it became necessary to fill up. The hon. member for Bodmin had argued, that Cornwall did not, in fact, possess any undue share in the representation; because, truly, only five out of the 44 members returned by that county were actually resident. But this argument admitted of an answer which did not appear to be in the contemplation of the hon. gentleman; for as there was such a number of non-resident members returned for Cornwall, that number was of course taken out of the common stock of representation, and from that common stock it was proposed by his motion to have still two members returned. But instead of having these members elected by Grampound, which had forfeited its rights by corruption, or fixing that right in any part of Cornwall, the freeholders of which were already sufficiently represented, he would have it transferred to a large, populous, and important town, which had at present no direct representative in that House. This town, then, had a right to complain, while no such right could belong to the freeholders of Cornwall, even though the franchise of Grampound, or any other borough convicted of corruption in that county, should be transferred to other populous towns. The president of the Board of Control had objected to the proposed transfer of
603Lord John Russell
584, in rising to move the order of the day for the House resolving itself into a committee upon this bill, said, he had little more to do than to repeat the sentiments he had expressed when this question was last under the consideration of the House. Upon the necessity of passing this bill of disfranchisement in the particular case of Grampound, he thought there could be no doubt—The only question, then, for consideration was, to what place the transfer of the elective franchise should be made. For his part, he gave a decided preference to Leeds; he thought the elective franchise could not be better disposed of than by transferring it to a large town of that description. By that means the House would at once punish the corruption which prevailed at Grampound, and let into the representation of the country a large class of respectable householders who were at present without the enjoyment of the elective franchise. It was a fact which, on such an occasion as this, required great attention, that out of twelve of the largest towns in England, five were totally without representation in that House. The county of York contained, he believed, 6,000 square miles, and one million of inhabitants, and was represented by only 30 members, while the county of Cornwall, which was in every respect inferior, had 44 members in that House. With respect to a proposition already talked of, to move an instruction to the committee that the transfer of the elective franchise from Grampound should be to the hundreds of Pyder and Powder, that proposition he should oppose altogether. It was agreed
584Lord John Russell
607 rose to state the reasons which induced him to object to the proposed grant. Notwithstanding the disgusting nature of the details exhibited by the evidence on the late trial of her majesty, he had felt it his duty to give his most serious attention to so very important a subject, and the result was, that he could not conscientiously agree, even if he could overlook the past, that so large a sum should be entrusted to such hands. He was persuaded the Queen had got those persons about her who would persuade her, notwithstanding her expressed determination to the contrary, to accept the proferred bounty of parliament, and he much feared, from the well-known character of those persons, that the greater part of this immense sum would be applied to increase that ferment, and perpetuate those disturbances which had so long injured the public interests. In another point of view, he was disposed to consider the sum too large. He thought ministers would not be justified in recommending, at this period of distress, so large a provision for the Queen. He could not pass over this subject, without referring to another burthensome charge on the public; he meant, the immense annuity now enjoyed by the prince of Saxe Coburg. He professed the sincerest respect for the memory of the Princess Charlotte; but he would say, that the object which the country bad in giving that enormous income to the husband of the nation's
607Mr. Alderman C. Smith
 contended, that the improvement in the purity of election, as evinced in the two late elections for Grampound, was to be attributed to the fact of this bill having been hanging over the heads of the electors. The bribery of Grampound was so notorious, that he would, without hesitation, consent to the disfranchisement of that borough. He approved of transfering the right of voting to Leeds, in preference to the adjoining hundreds of Pyder and Powder, which were already fully represented.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
581 rose to present a petition from the inhabitants of Guilford, setting forth the deep alarm they felt at what they conceived to be a great infraction of the law of the land, namely, the erasure of the Queen's name from the Liturgy, which they viewed as likely to lead to other infractions. They called on the House, therefore, to interpose; and also, to take into consideration, the present distressed state of the country, and the necessity of effecting a reform of parliament. The striking of the Queen's name from the Liturgy was one of the most important circumstances that had occurred for years. After hearing all the arguments that had been adduced respecting it, he felt more and more confirmed in the opinion that it was an illegal act. Much reliance had been placed on the case of the queen of George 1st, but that case was not at all in point, as there had; been a dissolution of the marriage in the Consistorial court. At that time also, there were two very strong factions in the country, one in favour of the house of Hanover, the other in favour of the house of Stuart, and history plainly showed how powerful the influence of the latter was. In such a state of things, care was of course taken, not to do any act that seemed likely to increase that influence. Besides, the wife of George 1st, never was recognised as possessing any of the rights of the queen of
581Mr. Serjeant Onslow
582, as the hon. member had entered into some explanation of his own opinions, in consequence of a misapprehension which existed with respect to them, hoped he might also be permitted to explain a very general misrepresentation as to what had fallen from him on the night on which the petition from Birmingham was presented. What he had suggested on that occasion was, whether it might not be possible, with reference to the relief of the agriculturists and the poor manufacturer, to substitute for some of the existing taxes a tax on land and on the holders of the national debt, which should have the shape of a modified property tax? The proposition of the hon. member for Cumberland,
582Mr. Littleton
602 said, he did hope that a case so clear, so glaring as the present, would be met, not by evasive or Jesuitical conduct on the part of the House, but by that immediate infliction of condign punishment which alone would satisfy the country. If, when a case of plain, unqualified, indisputable crime was brought before the House of Commons, the people of England saw that House temporising, wavering, and endeavouring to sooth with palliatives that evil for which an obvious and an efficient remedy presented itself; if the people of England saw such a course adopted by the House of Commons, it could scarcely create surprise if those people, in the disappointment of their reasonable and honest expectations, did fall into the hands of demagogues, or visionary and vicious schemers. The people of the country were always inclined to act with honesty and justice; and, upon an occasion like the present, the House, he thought, ought to take the lead. The proposal of the noble lord seemed perfectly unobjectionable; it embodied a principle which, serving as an example to future parliaments, might preserve the country for ages to come against the danger to be apprehended from revolutionary sentiments. The objections of the hon. member for Bodmin were not, coming from that hon. member, at all surprising; but he could not see why Cornwall alone should be so peculiarly blessed with electioneering grace. To him it had always appeared most improper and most impolitic, that so many large and populous towns, furnishing so much support, both of talent and of riches, to their country, should remain unrepresented. To him it did appear,
602Mr. Littleton
606 supported the amendment. An hon. gentleman had spoken very properly and impressively of the benefits resulting from an adequate representation of the trading interests. He was aware how powerful that interest was, and that it would secure its own adequate representation. The House recollected the consequences which followed in Yorkshire, when a noble lord, now called to the upper House (lord Lascelles), had ventured to oppose the clothing interest. It so drew on him the displeasure of that interest, that he was turned out of his seat on the next election. He considered it no small additional objection to conferring the representation on a large town rather than
606Mr. H. Sumner
 was unwilling to produce at that moment any grave discussion, but he trusted his silence would not subsequently be thrown in his teeth, or that he should be considered by that silence as pledged to any admission, either that the grant was too small or too large.Mr. Tierney
 conceived that the views of all parties would be best answered; by the introduction of the bills, as the Queen might otherwise be reduced to the necessity of rejecting a provision for her whole life.Mr. Tierney
590 said, the hon. member for Bodmin, who had so well pleaded the cause of his Cornish neighbours, when he proposed that the electoral franchise should be given to the hundreds of Pyder and Powder, had omitted to state what they had done to deserve this mark of favour. He contended, that there was no greater tendency to democracy in the members for populous places, than in the members for counties or boroughs. The principle of transfer, from one town to another, had been acted upon in numerous instances, from the reign of Edward the 1st to the reign of Charles the 2nd, a space of 400 years. Within that time 140 places had been added, and 70 taken away from the representation; but as to the principle of transferring the right of representation from a borough to freeholders, where was there a precedent for that? Such a transfer was contrary to all the analogies of the constitution. The freeholders had been wont to return knights of the shires; the freemen of cities, citizens; and burghers, burgesses; but the extension of the right of voting to the freeholders of an adjoining hundred, gave a double character to the freeholders. There was no precedent for any such confusion of rights till within the last fifty years. There was no instance before that of Shoreham,—a measure extorted from the weakness of lord North's administration, and passed by small majorities in small houses. Neither was there, by such a change, any improvement in the theory of the constitution. Through the medium of the boroughs, the colonial and mercantile interests, the army, the navy, the law, did in fact furnish their share of representation to that House. But, when the right was transferred from burgesses to freeholders, a double representation was given to a class already amply represented, to the virtual disfranchisement of all others. The next, instance to Shoreham, was that of Cricklade, in 1782. Lord Rockingham's administration supporting the measure, as tending to establish what was termed in the language of
590Mr. Hudson Gurney
605 observed, that the objection urged by the last speaker against the proposed transfer of the right of returning representatives to Leeds, would operate equally against the present system of representation for all populous towns—for Westminster, Bristol, or Liverpool for instance. Putting aside all general opinions as to the necessity of parliamentary reform, here was a blot hit; and if a remedy was to be applied, let it be applied in the way best calculated to benefit the public. Now, in giving two additional members to the county of York, nothing was done for the improvement of the representation. Every freeholder in that county had someone present in the House of Commons to protect his interests; but in Leeds, as in other great towns, there was an immense body of persons in the habit of thinking much upon political subjects, who had no organ whatever in that House whereby to express themselves. It was a considerable advantage to the House to have within it the immediate representative of a large body of men, and particularly of a large body of manufacturers. With respect to the county of York itself, did the hon. member think that (as regarded the transfer which he proposed) mere instructions to the committee would be sufficient for his purpose? Much machinery must be put in action before Yorkshire could be divided into two counties. At present Yorkshire had but one sheriff and but one county court; in the event of division, there must be two sheriffs and two county courts. The proposal of the hon. member brought with it many other disadvantages. Yorkshire was accustomed to meet as a whole county, and it was the boast of its inhabitants that it carried with it more weight, from its great extent, than any county in England.
605Mr. Stuart Wortley
 said, that what he had stated on the occasion alluded to, resolved itself into two points. He had stated, that he conceived funded property to be equally liable, in reason, law, and principle, as any other species of property, to be applied to the exigencies of the state. He knew of no distinction of property that should exempt that of the fundholder; and if that House had thought proper to call on him to support the expenses of war, he did not think it was at all unfair to call on him to contribute towards the expenses of peace. The Bank Restriction act had raised the value of funded property, and depressed that of land at least 25 per cent. An hon. member had, some time since, observed, that the land ought not to be let at such high rents. If the hon. member had examined the subject, he would have found that the rents had been very much lowered. He thought it was nothing more than just that the funded proprietor should fare as other bodies did, and that they should share in that depreciation which every other species of property had suffered.Mr. Curwen
 observed, that on a former occasion, when a petition was presented remonstrating against the undue use of machinery, and praying for a restraint upon it, a long discussion had taken place, in the course of which, it appeared to be the unanimous opinion of all the most intelligent members of the House, that the discouragement of machinery would be highly injurious to the country; an opinion in which he believed the petitioners themselves afterwards concurred.Mr. Curwen
586venditioni exponas. contended, that it had been proved that the king's writ for the return of members for the borough of Grampound had been regularly construed into a writ of 586venditioni exponas.Mr. Lockhart
 presented a petition from Dover, praying that her majesty's name might be restored to the Liturgy, that a reform of parliament might be effected, and that the House would turn its attention to the business of the country. He begged leave to correct a gross misrepresentation of a few words which he had used in that House a short time since. An hon. member for Yorkshire had stated, on the night to which he alluded, that many individuals had been actuated by party views in supporting the motion of a noble lord. On that occasion, he (Mr. B.) felt himself called on to state his motive for giving the vote he had done on the noble lord's motion; but, in doing so, he did not say one word respecting the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy, although he had been represented as giving a very strong opinion on that subject.Mr. Butterworth
 seconded the motion, observing, that if the right of representation were transferred to Leeds, the members returned would not be independent, as they must expect to be turned out whenever they should vote against the opinion or interests of the majority of the clothiers by whom they were returned. Such members must, indeed, support all the commercial speculations of their constituents.Mr. N. Calvert
601 said, that an hon. member had stated, that no seats had been lost at the last election, in consequence of hon. members having voted for the six unconstitutional bills. He did not intend to contradict the inference that must be drawn from the speech of the hon. member, that the House did not sympathize with the feelings of the people; but in justice to his constituents he must declare that he believed he owed the seat which he had the honour to have, to the disgust which was created among his constituents by the votes of the late members for Ipswich in favour of those bills. With regard to what had fallen from the president of the Board of Control, who had stated that the disfranchisement of Grampound would serve as a warning to other boroughs, it was his opinion that it would have no such effect; he had no hope that it would have any such effect. He was convinced that boroughs of the same sort would, while they continued to exist, act like other hardened delinquents: with the example of punishment before their eyes, they would still go on in their evil courses. With respect to the proposal of the noble lord to throw the elective franchise where it was most wanted, he should have thought there could be no question. Although in former cases the forfeited
601Mr. Lennard
 said, that he was not sanguine enough to expect this bill would satisfy the advocates of reform in general; but as he thought it would do a great deal of good, he should give it his support. He differed in one respect from the general advocates of parliamentary reform, for he thought that public opinion had a greater influence upon their deliberations than was by many ascribed to it. Instead of Leeds, he should be for extending the right of voting to the West Riding of Yorkshire.Mr. Beaumont
604 then moved, "That it be an instruction to the Committee, that they have power to enable the county of York to send four Members to serve in
604Mr. Beaumont
 said, he would be one of the last men in the world to propose any thing that might appear to be a breach of the public credit. At the same time, he thought a remedy might be devised for the existing evil without any such breach. An intelligent individual had suggested to him that a considerable sum might be raised by imposing a tax, perhaps to the value of a shilling percent, on the transfer of stock. It would assist in discouraging speculation, would afford some relief from the pressure of existing taxation, and would do no injury to public credit.Sir C. Burrell
 remarked, that the last act of parliament made no distinction with regard to the Queen's surviving. By her marriage settlement she was entitled to the same annuity if she had survived as the Princess of Wales; but the letters patent for executing that settlement were never passed, and there was now no such person as the princess of Wales. The act of settlement had therefore become a nullity, and it was necessary that the provision made by it should be again secured in the event of her surviving his present majesty.Mr. Huskisson
 said, that it was neither an omission nor a mistake in the act. There was an act enabling the Crown to-make her royal highness a certain grant in case the prince of Wales died before her in the life-time of his late majesty; but no such contingency had ever happened. There was nothing in the marriage contract to provide for her majesty as Queen-Consort.Mr. Huskisson
 observed, that the present bill provided for the Queen Consort, in the same manner as she had been provided for in her marriage settlement as princess of Wales.Mr. Huskisson
599 thought that the House should confine itself strictly to the consideration of applying a remedy for a specific grievance, and not mix up this subject with the general question of parliamentary reform. It was not even necessary to consider in the abstract the propriety or impropriety of extending the elective franchise to large unrepresented towns. He saw no constitutional objection to such towns being represented, but at the same time he saw the palpable inconvenience of introducing general subjects of reform into the discussion of a measure, of which the object was, to remedy a glaring abuse, and a specific grievance. In applying a punishment to the offending borough, he could not put out of his consideration the moral effect of the decision of the legislature, and he, for one, should not feel satisfied, unless the name of Grampound was expunged from the representative system. He thought it equally impolitic and inconvenient to enter into general topics of commercial distress, and therefore should offer no comment upon what had fallen from his honourable friend who preceded him. His objection to the substitution of the west riding of Yorkshire for Leeds was, that he was not aware of any constitutional precedent for the representation of a riding. He could understand why the west riding of Yorkshire should be selected as a district which might be benefited by more direct representation; but the transfer of the election from Grampound to Leeds, would equally accomplish the object, and, as he contended, in a more constitutional manner. To those who were afraid of letting in the principle of reform, he begged to say, that in that hour, when the royal assent was given to the bill for extending the right of voting for the borough of Shoreham to the freeholders of the adjoining hundred; the principle of reform was admitted and
599Mr. Wilmot
580 rose to present a petition from the Journeyman Rope Makers of the metropolis, signed by 700 individuals. The petitioners stilted the deep distress into which they were plunged in consequence of the application of machinery to certain branches of their profession. By the introduction of machinery into the trade, two-thirds of the workmen formerly employed were prevented from earning a livelihood. The machine of which they complained was called "The Devil," which, with the assistance of six or seven men, performed the same quantity of work, which previously occupied ninety-seven. The petitioners stated that the work so done, was extremely imperfect, and would of course injure the character of that manufacture in foreign countries. In conclusion, the petitioners expressed a wish to place this "devil" in more immediate connexion with the chancellor of the exchequer—to whom they recommended the propriety of laying a tax on it. The question for the consideration of the House
580Sir R. Wilson
in limine thought it singular that the hon. member who spoke last should not hesitate to pronounce for a disfranchisement which went at once to blot out two members from the representation, and should hesitate to admit a principle comparatively of minor importance, namely, the settlement of the mode in which their places should be supplied. All arrangements upon that point he thought would come better in the committee than in the present stage of the bill. With reference to what had fallen from the hon. member for Galway, it was of course quite consistent in him, who resisted in limineSir. J. Newport
 presented a petition from Lincoln, signed by 1030 persons, praying for the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy, and for a reform in parliament. The hon. gentleman explained the circumstances which had induced the petitioners to place the petition in his hands, and supported the double prayer of the petition.Mr. Bernal
610 concurred in hoping that the House would take the petition into consideration, but begged not to be understood as pledged to the support of
610Mr. Sibthorp
 concurred in that part of the petition which prayed for the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy, on the plain ground, that as a lawyer, he could see no legal or constitutional justification for the expulsion of it. To the question of parliamentary reform, he looked with more apprehension of evil than hope of good; and he had determined not to accede to any proposition on that subject, the consequences of which he did not clearly foresee. The hundreds of petitions in which parliamentary reform and her majesty's exclusion from the Liturgy were coupled, showed how unfortunately the latter occurrence had excited the people with respect to the former object. There was not throughout the kingdom a more quiet, orderly, and well-disposed population, than that of the city of Lincoln; and to his certain knowledge, hundreds had signed their names to the present petition, who entertained a sincere respect for royalty, and were indignant at the way in which the dignity of the royal family had been compromised by ministers. A wise government would have endeavoured to conciliate such persons, and not to set up the votes of the House of Commons against law, and the general feeling of the people throughout the kingdom.Mr. R. Smith
611 presented a similar petition from Holbeach, many of the signatures to the petition were those of persons who had been called upon to sign what were called loyal declarations, and which they did under the impression that those declarations were merely expressions of loyalty. Subsequently, on discovering that those declarations contained a libel on a portion of their countrymen, and were intended to support a faction in the possession of power, they regretted the delusion into which they had been betrayed, and signed the petition which he held in his hand. At a time when so many persons were apprehensive that it would be impossible much longer to discharge the interest of the national dept, the importance of compelling government to adopt that species of retrenchment which could alone be effective, was self-evident. They
611Sir R. Heron
 said, he could assure ministers, that if they calculated upon all the individuals who had signed the loyal declarations as their supporters, they were wofully mistaken. He was convinced that a large majority of the people wished for a change of ministers and of measures.Mr. Pelham
612 presented a petition, signed by ten Clergymen of the established church. The petitioners stated, that they had always been taught to believe that the Act of Uniformity regulated the performance of divine service in all respects; and that the power of the Crown, in ecclesiastical matters, was entirely limited and circumscribed by it. He entirely agreed with the petitioners, that the Act of Uniformity had so limited and circumscribed the power of the Crown, which, in his opinion, was prevented from making an iota of alteration in the Book of Common Prayer. If this were not so—if the Crown, by means of an Order in Council, could make any alteration in the established form of divine worship, it would be difficult to say where the exercise of that power might stop. He could conceive no doctrine more fatal to the established church, or more pregnant with national evil than such a supposition. And why? Undoubtedly under the reign of our late revered Sovereign, there was no danger of any such consequences. It was also true, that in his present majesty's reign, no such evil was to be apprehended. But who could tell whether—as James the 2nd desired to overthrow the established church by the introduction of popery—some future king, in his latter days, having spent his youth in profligacy and debauchery, might not be wheedled mid deluded by that class of religious enthusiasts, called Methodists, and, under the influence of their fanaticism, be tempted to endeavor to introduce into the service of the established church that, which, in his opinion, would be attended with much greater evil than any Roman Catholic doctrines? In the petition, there was not
612Dr. Lushington
 presented a similar petion from King's Lynn. He would take that opportunity of stating as a fact, that; a clergyman, who stood remarkable for the active part he had taken against the Queen, had lately confessed that one-third of his parishioners had left the church. The petitioners stated, that the distress and discontent which prevailed throughout the country was to be mainly attributed to the ignorance, obstinacy, and inanity of ministers. He did, from the bottom of his heart, agree in that sentiment. To the conduct of the ministers, and to the defective state of the representation, did he attribute the national misfortunes.Dr. Lushington
614 presented a similar
614Mr. Alderman Wood
 was not surprised that her majesty had refused the provision which that House had offered; convinced as she was of her innocence, she demanded her rights; to have accepted of that provision would have been a compromise of her honour.Mr. Bernal
617616615 said he had three peti-
617616615Mr. Hobhouse
618 said, he would reply to the extensive appeal of the hon. gentleman on one topic only. It was true that he was, in 1790, an advocate for a Reform of the Irish House of Commons, and the hon. gentleman might be surprised, when he said that, notwithstanding the events of the last 25 years, which had been by no means calculated to encourage the general principle of parliamentary reform, under the circumstances in which the Irish House of Commons then stood, he should again support parliamentary reform. He supported it then on the practical ground that a dissolution of parliament did not produce the same effect in Ireland that it did in England. But when in 1793 the constituents were enlarged by the admission of the Catholics to the right of voting, he had stated that thenceforward he should not vote for any parliamentary reform. This
618Lord Castlereagh
619 said, that whether the right hon. baronet thought well of him or no, would not break his heart. As to that measure which he had promoted, the union, it must be decided on by posterity, and it might go down for judgment, accompanied with the right hon. baronet's criticism. A more useful member of parliament than the right hon. baronet did not exist, but certainly his irritation hurried him into frequent oblivions of fact, and exhibited him in a
619Lord Castlereagh
650 said, he was anxious to follow his hon. friend, having acted up to that period in concert with him, though now obliged to differ from him in the line he had taken. His hon. friend professed that he took that line out of deference to the views of the people, stating at the same time that he did not agree with any of those views. He was ready to accede to him that the general feelings of a great body of the people were for the restoration of the Queen to the Liturgy, but then, in his view of the duty a member of parliament owed his country, those feelings were not to be acted upon at the sacrifice of an honest conviction. The feelings of the people ought to have their due weight with their representatives—he would listen to their prayers, and to the arguments by which they were enforced, but in that House he was bound to act according to the judgment he had formed. Upon that principle it was that his vote on the present occasion would be founded; and he would explain to the House why he could not, after what had happened, advise the Crown to bestow any mark of grace or favour upon the Queen. True, the sense of a great body of the people had clearly declared itself in favour of the effect of the present motion; but he thought that the people had come to that opinion under an erroneous impression. The people thought that to exclude the name of the Queen from the Liturgy was to deprive her of a right; and if once he could be of that opinion, he would undoubtedly vote for the insertion of her name; but he voted against the present motion because not even all the eloquent speeches he had heard had convinced him that in the exclusion there was any thing illegal. He did not put the negative vote which he proposed to give upon the ground taken by the hon. member (Mr. Legge) who had spoken for the first time upon the present occasion: he deprecated the language put forth in her majesty's addresses, and in her Letter to the king; but parliament ought in another way to mark its disapprobation of that language; he would not on that account exclude her majesty's name from the Liturgy. But the Queen, most ill-advisedly, had rejected the mediation of the House; she had refused to take any steps by which the differences between the illustrious parties could be arranged; she had put herself upon her trial; and, in so putting
650Mr. Stuart Worthy
651, of Galway, said, that the present motion had actually been made in the form of an amendment eight months ago, and negatived by the House; and could any man now expect the House, after the lapse of so short a period, to reverse the decision then come to by a majority of 301 to 124, in which majority he believed the hon. gentleman himself joined who had brought forward this mo-
651Mr. Martin
644643642 began by observing, that it had been his intention to address the House at an earlier period of these discussions, but having failed to catch the attention of the chair, he had still the satisfaction to find that his view of the question had been completely taken and
644643642Mr. Wynn
658 was of opinion, that even if ministers had been in possession of irresistible proof of her majesty's guilt, the exclusion of her name from the Liturgy was not the proper way of marking their sense of her misconduct, or inflicting the requisite punishment. He could discover no precept of Scripture, and no dictate of reason, which forbad us to pray for those who had wandered from the path of duty. The mode in which her majesty had been prejudged and punished by the exclusion of her name from the Liturgy, assumed the character of a religious persecution, and a religious persecution was of all others the most unjustifiable and the most odious. Hence the general dissatisfaction of the country with the treatment which the Queen had experienced. He verily believed that to the omission of her majesty's name in the Liturgy, and the odium attached to it, was to be ascribed the greater portion of her popularity. The people often reasoned wrongly, but they always felt right; and when they saw her majesty punished without trial, they could not refuse her their sympathy and support, nor would she cease to be an object of popular regard until she ceased to be persecuted. If he were a partisan of her majesty and wished her to retain the hold which she possessed over the minds of the people, he would advise ministers to refuse the insertion of her name in the
658Mr. Marryat
 presented a petition, signed by four-fifths of the inhabitants of the parish of St. John's, Southwark. Itexpressed great disapprobation at the proceedings against her majesty, and astonishment that no means had been devised of diminishing the public expenditure, and extending the national commerce.Mr. C. Calvert
 presented a similar petition from Kintbury, in Berkshire. He hoped the House would grant the prayers of the people, and thereby restore peace to the country, and congregations to the deserted churches.Mr. C. Dundas
640639638637636635634might633***632nominatim.631630, in rising to second the motion, declared that he found himself impelled to do so by the strongest and most decisive impressions, and by au anxiety to discharge a correspondent duty to the Crown and the country. The subject before the House was one of extreme interest, involving moral and political consequences of no ordinary nature, and in no ordinary degree. It had, indeed, been so ably brought forward by his hon. friend who preceded him, that much of what he might otherwise have been disposed to address to the House, would now be withheld. He should abstain also from travelling over those extensive and important grounds, which, on a former occasion, were so effectually taken by his hon. and learned friend, the member for Oxford (Mr. Wetherell), in a speech which would never be forgotten by those
640639638637636635634might633***632nominatim.631630Mr. Tennyson
 thought the original omission of her majesty's name in the Liturgy a most ill-advised measure; but, from what had appeared in evidence elsewhere, and from her conduct, particularly in her letter to the King, and her answers to addresses since she returned to this country, he could not consistently vote for the motion.Mr. Davenport
 observed, that he was not one of those who approved of a secession, under any circumstances, of the members of the English church from their places of worship; but it was a melancholy fact, that such a secession had taken place to a considerable extent. He did not complain so much that her majesty was not prayed for, as he did that she was prayed against. He deprecated the too frequent practice of introducing political matter into sermons. He was sure there was no person in that House but would concur in the propriety of condemning such a prostitution of the pulpit. It was from no political motive whatever that he introduced this subject, but the fact was that he was lately at a parish church with two hon. members, and on that occasion the clergyman introduced politics into his sermon in the most offensive manner. He hoped that through the means of such an humble individual as himself, the practice might be reprobated and discontinued.Mr. Harbord
 could not support the motion, after the exposure that had been made of her majesty's conduct. The Prayer Book was held, and justly, only inferior to the Bible, and he could not consent to its disgrace by the introduction of her name into it.Mr. Alderman Bridges
641 considered the erasure of her majesty's name from the Liturgy both ill-advised and inexpedient, although he was by no means disposed to concede that there was any force in the argument, that it was impossible to retain her majesty's name in the Liturgy, and yet institute the proceedings against her which had lately taken place. He did not see that there could have been any inconsistency in adopting such a line of conduct. The retaining her name was consistent with the custom which had so generally prevailed for years, and he did not imagine that its remaining in the place in which custom had assigned it, would have the effect of prejudging her case, or have created any strong prejudice in favour of her innocence, in the event of its being necessary to commence a criminatory proceeding against her. On the contrary, he was convinced that her exclusion from the Liturgy had created her a host of advocates out of doors, and some within that House. As to the Queen's right to have her name inserted, he thought it would be most inopportunely argued at present, after the able legal authorities which had been heard at length on that branch of the question. He might, perhaps, be disposed to say, that the omission was not in itself illegal; but he was at the same time not disposed to agree with those who insisted that her majesty was not prayed for by virtue of her being included in that general prayer for the royal family. He
641Mr. Legge
665 supported the motion, and contended that in point of law, as well as
665Mr. Bright
613 said, that according to the plain words of the act of parliament, the order in council appeared to be illegal. It was not less so, with reference to history and precedent. The forcible arguments which had been urged on that side were combated by the law officers of the Crown by nicety and subtilty of reasoning, by precedents which did not in any way bear upon the subject. The statute appeared to him to be directory—it appeared to be more than directory—itapeared to be mandatory. But if it left, as was contended, a discretionary power, then ought the law in reference to the Queen to be construed in the most favourable, instead of the severest manner; otherwise the statute should be looked upon as a statute, penal in its nature. Of all judgments, that to an honourable and feeling mind was the most abhorrent, which was called an infamous judgment; that judgment which took away the character of the party, which excluded him from the place of virtuous and honourable society. If, instead of being mandatory, the statute was penal, it ought to be construed favourably—construed, as an ordinary man would construe it, on a fair perusal, and not upon nice and subtle grounds. The exclusion of her majesty's name from the Liturgy was most unconstitutional, and formed a dangerous precedent, as regarded the succession. He complained that ministers had not taken the advice of the twelve judges: instead of which they depended solely on the law officers of the crown. He had intended to move as an amendment to the motion of Mr. Smith,
613Mr. Lockhart
629628627626625624naiveté623622621, in rising to submit the motion of which he had given notice, begged to remind the House that some short time back he had the honour to present a petition from the merchants, bankers, and traders, of London, assembled at the Mansion-house. In that petition they had implored the House to adopt such measures as would restore that peace and tranquillity to the country which were so much wanted. He could now assure the House that he should speak the sentiments, and act upon the wishes, of that most respectable body in coming forward on this occasion; for there was no body of men to whom the peace and tranquillity of the country were more important than to them. In taking the present step, he declared most solemnly that the restoration of peace and tranquillity to the country was his only object. He conceived it his duty to look at past transactions fully and fairly, and he was determined to do so. He begged first to call the attention of the House to that period of the last year when his majesty's ministers had advised the omission of the Queen's name in the Liturgy. At that time, and on several occasions since, he had endeavoured to collect what were the real motives which had induced them to adopt that measure; for this purpose he had listened with attention to every thing which had passed in the House upon the subject. He had, indeed, heard some kind of explanation, and some motives stated, but, up to the present hour, he had not heard any precise reason given. So much had been already said upon the impolicy of that measure, that he did not now feel it necessary to press that further upon the attention of the House. There were, he knew, differences of opinion upon subsequent parts of the proceedings, but he solemnly protested, that he had never met any one who did, under all the circumstances, approve of the measure. He would admit, that it was the wish of his majesty's ministers, that the Queen should remain abroad. That he did not complain of; for he agreed, that if there was any chance whatever of the public tranquillity being interfered with by her return, it would have been better, and he could have wished, that she had remained abroad. But how
629628627626625624naiveté623622621Mr. John Smith
, of Gal way, said, he would refer the right hon. baronet to an authority which could not be disputed,—that of the late Mr. Ponsonby. Mr. Ponsonby had declared he would support the cause of parliamentary reform in Ireland, but that on no account would he consent to a reform of the House of Commons in England, which he thought really and truly represented the people.Mr. Martin
 said, he received the decision of the Speaker in the most humble and penitential manner.Mr. Martin
 said, that if the learned gentleman should continue to deal in such broad assertions against ministers, his veracity would be liable to be questioned [cries of order, order!]. He contended, that he was not out of order; that was not veracity which was not true.Mr. R. Martin
654"vestigia nulla retrorsum"653"castigatque auditque.'652 said, he was very glad that it had been at last admitted by gentlemen opposite that the exclusion of her majesty's name from the Liturgy was a punishment. He had always considered it so; and he thought it unworthy of the noble lord opposite to contend, as he had done on former occasions, that it was
654"vestigia nulla retrorsum"653"castigatque auditque.'652Mr. Lennard
664ex abundanti said, that considering the importance of this subject, and the political consequences likely to follow from the decision of the House, he thought it necessary to offer a few words. With respect to the legal question, he must say, that he was not convinced that the clause in the act of parliament referred to, did not give the power to the Crown to judge of the names to be inserted in the Liturgy. The learned gentleman in his argument upon that point, had recounted all the various privileges which belonged to a Queen Consort; but he thought the learned gentleman would agree with him, that they were given to the Queen in aid and assistance, not in opposition and contradiction to the Crown. That was the general rule of law on which all the privileges of a Queen Consort were to be construed. The clause in the Act of Uniformity, on which the learned gentleman had placed so much reliance, was put in 664ex abundantiMr. Lamb
648647646645 said, that every thing which had happened since the period when he first delivered his sentiments to the House on this important subject, had tended to confirm the opinions which he then entertained. Under the circumstances in which the House was placed, it now became necessary to express a deliberate opinion, and as he had had no opportunity of delivering his sentiments the other night, he must now declare, that they were, in the main, the same as those which had been just expressed by his hon. and learned friend below him. Whatever his opinions might be upon particular parts of the case, he could not but thing, that, looking to the whole of the conduct of his majesty's ministers, there was nothing which called for the condemnation of the House or the country. The ministers had been placed in a situation of extreme difficulty; they had only a choice of evils before them, and if they had erred in making that choice, their error should in fairness be regarded as an error of judgment, and ought not to be imputed to incapacity, and still less to want of integrity. He had now, however, something different in contemplation: he wished to take a practical view of the subject as the best mode by which they could now arrive at a satisfactory conclusion. Intending to treat the question in this manner, he must, in the first instance, examine the objections which had been raised on both sides, to the course of
648647646645Mr. Wilberforce
657656655 expressed his conviction, that the motion was introduced by the hon. mover in the true spirit of peace and conciliation. He did not give less credit to the motives which induced the hon. member for Bramber to support it; but he could not conceal his regret, that the hon. member in his support had recognised a principle, which he thought in the highest degree dangerous, and capable of being perverted to the worst of purposes.—The hon. member admitted, that her majesty had no claim upon any special act of grace or favour of which the insertion of her name in the Liturgy clearly partook; for if she was entitled to that insertion by law, the question was set at rest, all discretion was at end, and the question of grace and favour would be wholly irrelevant. But the hon. member was desirous that her name should be restored for the purpose of complying with what he thought was the general wish of the people.—This was the principle against which he protested; even admitting that it was the general sense, it must be considered as yet (into whatever final judgment it might resolve) an effervescence of public opinion. He was most unwilling to differ from the hon. gentleman, whose efforts in the cause of humanity and of his country were so distinguished; but he must beg leave to oppose to such doctrine the opinion of a man, who was equally the ornament of the period in which he lived, he meant Mr. Burke; not in his later life when he might be stigmatised as the timid alarmist of the French Revolution, but during the period of the American War. Mr.
657656655Mr. Wilmot
 thought the hon. member was in the first instance somewhat out of Order; but he had no doubt but that his explanation was highly disorderly.The Speaker
 presented a similar petition from Berwick-upon-Tweed. He said that in all the statements of the petition he cordially concurred. He would take that opportunity of asking ministers a question; but whether they answered it now, hereafter, or never, was of very little consequence. He trusted he had only to state it to enable the House to see its object. If her majesty's name had stood in the Liturgy at the time the bill of pains and penalties was withdrawn (which by the noble lord had been called, or miscalled, a technical acquittal), would his majesty's ministers, under the circumstances of that acquittal, have advised her majesty's name to be expunged from the Liturgy? If they would have advised that her name should be erased, they would have been counteracting the good effect of withdrawing the bill itself; nay, further, they would have done what nobody scarcely in his senses would have done; but "quem Deus vult perdere, prius dementat." If they would not have advised such erasure, the inconsistency of their conduct was more obvious than ever.Sir F. Blake
 presented a similar petition from Northampton. He did not believe, that any man of sense and sincerity, could lay his hand on his heart and say, that the exclusion of her majesty's name from the Liturgy was not intended by ministers as a mark of disgrace, or that such a disgrace was not a punishment. He rejoiced that she had had the magnanimity to refuse any pecuniary arrangement until that right had been recognised. Her majesty, with that magnanimity which characterized the family from which she sprung, had twice refused to barter her honour for a bribe; and he trusted the people had too much generosity to allow their Queen to be starved at la>t into a compliance with the will of ministers.Sir G. Robinson
 opposed the motion, amidst loud cries of "Question."Sir J. Marjoribanks
 said, that the petition imputed to ministers conduct, so infamous, that if it were true, he would feel himself degraded by remaining in his present neighbourhood. He believed it was untrue, and that the noble lord and his colleagues acted from conscientious motives. He had heard much very ably urged on the question of the Liturgy, but whether it was from want of comprehension or not, he certainly went away unconvinced. He thought her majesty was entitled to all the benefit of the proceedings in another place having been dropt; but when he looked to her answers to certain addresses—when he read her Letter to the King, and the communication which she had sent down to that House, he could not help saying, that though she had peace on her tongue, there was war in her heart.Mr. Wilson
 expressed his conviction, that by a steady perseverance in petitioning that House, the people would ultimately triumph. He should consider the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy as an act of amnesty. If, on the contrary, ministers persevered in their present course, they must take the consequences, and on their heads would be all the evils that would ensue.Sir R. Wilson
 said, it was very true that the noble lord continued to advocate a reform until 1793, when he became connected with office, and from that time it was true that he never advocated any reform. There was a speech of the noble lord's recorded in the debates of the Irish parliament, uttered by him in support of a motion brought forward by his revered friend, and the friend of the independence of his country, now deceased, in which the noble lord declared, that if the Irish House of Commons did not attend to the wishes of the people, they would be reformed from without with a vengeance. That parliament did not attend to the wishes of the people, and the noble lord being put into a situation, in which he could play the reformer, reformed it in a truly radical style, for he altogether extinguished its separate existence. The noble lord had severed the Irish parliament from the Irish people, and the parliament fell. This should be a most impressive lesson to the parliament of England. He who led the parliament of Ireland through its degradation to its destruction, now led the parliament of England through the same course towards the same end. "I speak," continued the right hon. baronet, "from conviction. I have watched him from the commencement: and I conscientiously believe, that he gives and has given the most fatal counsels that any nation can adopt. It is my conviction that the noble lord has such impressions on his mind, that his counsels, if they have influence, must drive the nation onward in the career which was pursued in Ireland; and which ended in the debasement of the parliament, the extinction of national independence, and all the subsequent ruin which the loss of independence had brought upon that country."Sir J. Newport
663 said, he did not know how those who censured the erasure of her majesty's name from the Liturgy in the first instance as unwise and inexpedient could vote against the present motion for reinserting it. They said, it was true, that circumstances had changed since the time of the first erasure; but if they had changed, he maintained that they had changed in favour of her majesty; for upon every principle of British justice, the abandonment of the bill introduced into the other House of parliament against her, was equivalent to an acquit-
663Sir John Newport
662661660659 said, that if the House could be prevailed upon to think that the petitions on the subject before them were general, that they came from those classes of the community whose opinions deserved the greatest respect, and were founded on their cool and deliberate judgment, they ought certainly to adopt the recommendation of the noble member for Yorkshire, and add their pe-
662661660659Sir Thomas Acland
bona fidel.l.609 presented a petition from Tadley, praying for an inquiry into the Agricultural Distresses. The petition-
bona fidel.l.609Sir W. De Crespigny
 argued against the use which had been made of Mr. Burke's observations on the instructions which he had received from his Bristol constituents respecting the Irish commercial propositions and the Catholic question, which measures were, about the time of his making the observations, quoted by the hon. member for Newcastle, coming under discussion in that House. If the hon. member wished to know Mr. Burke's real opinions on a question similar to that before the House, let him read his "Thoughts on the present Discontents," and he would there find the opinion which Mr. Burke entertained of the probable consequences of differences between what he termed "an addressing House of Commons and a petitioning people." He thought the House would act wisely to add their petition for the restoration of the Queen's name to the Liturgy, to those of almost all the rest of the nation.Lord Milton
679may678three677our custom allows him not676They are named by the presiding judge from the Roll of675pro loco et tempore,"674ex officio673arbitrary punishmentsqualify672671 rose and apologised to his honourable friend, the member, for Northumberland, for his apparent inattention to the arrangement which had been made on a former evening—that of allowing his notice to take precedence—but he (Mr. K.) was extremely unwilling to proceed in the absence of the learned lord-advocate of Scotland. At the same time, having waited until the last moment, he was sure the House would feel with him, that, however reluctantly, he must now proceed—The subject to which he was about to call the attention of the House was one of which he had given notice nearly two years ago. He had abstained during the last session from introducing it, owing to peculiar circumstances in the condition of the country. But, having done this, he was the more anxious to propose the measure with which he should conclude, early in the present year—and particularly as he could not be aware how long it might be convenient to the learned lord to attend his duty in that House. He ought perhaps to apologise to the House for the nature of the motion at a moment when the temper of the House and of the country was scarcely tranquillized, or withdrawn from a subject which had so much occupied its attention—but it did appear to him that the time was come to proceed to other important matters. It was not so interesting as a measure affecting the financial, agricultural or commercial embarrassments of the country—subjects to which he should be happy to see the attention of the House directed and especially—by honourable members on the other side of the House, under whose auspices success and advantage were more probable—but he could not think the amelioration of the criminal law or
679may678three677our custom allows him not676They are named by the presiding judge from the Roll of675pro loco et tempore,"674ex officio673arbitrary punishmentsqualify672671Mr. Kennedy
680 assured the hon. member who had brought forward this motion, that he felt as deeply as he did, the necessity of the regulations and improvements he suggested, but he lamented he had thought it necessary to introduce into his speech so many topics unconected with the subject matter of it. He lamented particularly that he had entered so minutely into the nature of the office and appointments of his hon. and learned friend, the lord advocate, at a time when that noble lord was absent from his place. He did not feel himself competent to answer the hon. gentleman either in the extraneous matter he had indulged in, or in his legal argument; but there was one part of his hon. friend's preliminary matter to which he would advert, and he was only induced to do so by the formidable sound of the words "arbitrary punishment," on which his hon. friend had commented. This arbitrary punishment, as it was called, consisted only in the court being empowered to pronounce sentence of transportation on a prisoner who had been put to the bar to be tried, perhaps for his life, but in whose case the lord advocate had restricted the libel to an arbitrary punishment, thus taking from the
680Lord Binning
670 said, it appeared to him that both motions were of the same tendency, and went to affect, in the first instance, the conduct of an individual. Both were, in his view of them, anomalous; for they called upon an individual—and without, at the outset, showing the fullest necessity—to encounter the expense of defending himself at the bar of that House from an imputation. It was a serious thing to put a gentleman under the reprehension of that House, without previously affording him the opportunity of showing whether or no he could justify his conduct. Although his majesty's government had no desire to obstruct any inquiry which had for its object the removal of any supposed impediment to the right of petition, yet he thought it too much to call upon that House, at the outset, to erect itself into a tribunal over the exercise of the discretion of a high sheriff, whose deliberate powers were recognised by the control vested in him over the arrangements of the county courts. Let the House be put in possession of the particular acts on which the charge of de-
670Lord Castlereagh
 explained. He had not said that the court of justiciary never exercised the power of sentencing to transportation, unless where the offence was a capital one. What he had stated was, that what was called an "arbitrary punishment" was in fact a leniency, because the punishment was only so restricted in cases of capital offence.Lord Binning
 said, that the House had already considered the number of seamen, for instance, to be voted for the service of the year. Would it not then be something inconsistent if the House were afterwards to withhold the means of paying their wages The present were not new taxes; they were part of those which were usually granted. As to the estimates, the utmost haste was making to have them ready, and he hoped they would be laid before the House next week. No measure would be introduced respecting them, until they should have been a sufficient time in the hands of members.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
685 said, he had as much of that constitutional jealousy with which the grant of supplies ought to be exercised, as could be found on the other side of the House; but still he could not concur in the objection to the present bill.
685Sir T. Lethbridge
 was glad to hear such Sentiments as those which had fallen from the hon. baronet. He could assure him that the objection to the present motion arose solely from the wish to correct a grievance. He, and his friends wished to have it understood, what retrenchments it was the intention of ministers to make, In their present course they only exercised the undoubted privilege of the House to refuse all supplies, where a grievance complained of was not remedied. But for such refusals of supplies they might not now be existing as a House of Commons. When he saw ministers wholly regardless of the prayers of the people, he thought it the duty of members who had the interest of their country at heart to exercise their constitutional privilege in opposing the money grants.Colonel Davies
667 rose to move for a committee to inquire into the laws respecting the admission of Attorneys and Solicitors in England. The measure he had in contemplation was not intended to apply
667Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 requested to know what was the difference between the present motion and a motion of which notice had been given by the member for Appleby.Mr. Davenport
 regretted the absence of the lord advocate. He rose solely for the purpose of correcting the noble lord in what he had said respecting the arbitrary power of the Judges of justiciary in Scotland. The noble lord had represented that power as being confined to the pronouncing of sentence of transportation, in cases where the public prosecutor had restricted the libel to an arbitrary punishment. But the truth was, that this was a modern assumption of power on the part of the judges, which he was prepared to prove they did not legally possess. The utmost extent of their power being merely to banish forth from Scotland, they had assumed the same power of transporting to a foreign settlement as was allowed under the statutes of England. In a very recent case, in the face of a unanimous recommendation from the jury, the court, in the exercise of its lenity, had sentenced an individual to five years' transportation.Mr. J. P. Grant
 did not consider the hon. member was justified in applying the words "factious and vexatious" to the majority of the preceding evening. He was one of that majority—and would say, that to the best of his judgment, in voting as he did, he had used an honest and a sound discretion, and did not deserve to be called either factious or vexatious. He perfectly differed from the hon. member too, when he declared that that House did not speak the sense of the majority of the people. He knew that in the place he came from, a party not interior in numbers, but infinitely superior in respectability, held opinions directly opposite to those of the hon. gentleman. He had no wish to say any thing that might hurt the feelings of an unfortunate lady whatever he might think of her conduct, and he had therefore carefully abstained from saying any thing on the subject on several occasions, but it was too much to sit there night after night, and hear it asserted that, deciding as they had done, the House had voted against the wishes of the people. He did not believe any thing of the kind. If, however, he did believe it, he would still contend, that it was the duty of members of that House conscientiously to act on their own opinions. This, however, was not his argument. What he meant to assert was, that if the voices of his constituents could be collected from one end of the county of Leicester to the other, he was confident the majority, in numbers and in respectability, would approve of the decisions come to in that House.Mr. Mansfield
 was determined not to vote away any more of the public money until a more clear mode of keeping the accounts should be adopted.Mr. J. Martin
l.682** wished to receive some information as to the intentions of his majesty's government with respect to the mode generally pursued throughout the country, for the Prevention of Smuggling. He understood that the chancellor of the
l.682**Mr. Warre
 was surprised to hear the term "factious" applied to gentlemen on his side of the House. He considered that the term would be more applicable to the other side, and that the majority of last night was factious in the highest degree. [Order, Chair.]Mr. Hume
 said, he was sorry for having: used the word, which he had mistaken for the word vexatious. But he begged to say that he did consider the majority of last night as most vexatious, being calculated only to produce vexation and disappointment in the country. He prophesied that the vexation would not end here, nor end at all, unless measures of a conciliatory nature were adopted. That decision he had no hesitation in saying, was in opposition to the declared opinions of nine-tenths of the people. Under these circumstances he considered it his duty to oppose the granting of any supplies.Mr. Hume
*681 said, it was rather unparliamentary that his hon. friend should be assailed because he brought forward the motion in the absence of the learned lord, whose duty it was to be present. He did not see why, if the lord advocate was absent, their tongues were to be tied; the noble lord should rather have apologised for the learned lord than have inculpated his hon. friend. His hon. friend had brought to view the arbitrary power exercised by the court of Justiciary, to instances of which he (Mr. T.) had happened to be witness in a case, the details of which were printed, and which was also to be found in the debates of that House: he meant the case of Mr. Muir and Mr. Palmer. He (Mr. T.) had been in the House at the time of the debate, as well as in Edinburgh at the time of the trial, and certainly, in common with many others, he did not think the verdict was that which would have been given by an English jury. He had on this point the testimony of a man of no mean authority, who was present the whole time, he meant the late sir S. Romilly. Mr. Erskine, a lawyer of the very first eminence, had told him, that on that occasion the Court of Justiciary had misunderstood the law, when they sentenced the prisoners to transportation. The law said that persons convicted of sedition should be banished from their "pleasant fields and native homes." But this never had been understood, or could be honestly interpreted, as giving a power to transport the prisoner to a particular place, as they did those prisoners to Botany Bay. The case was brought before the House of Commons by the present commissioner of the
*681Mr. M. A. Taylor
 said, that the present motion was directed towards a general legislative measure, while that of his hon. friend referred to some particular in stance.Mr. Beaumont
 said, that nothing was farther from his wish than to take the House by surprise upon this subject, or to interfere with the motion of his hon. friend. He was ready, therefore, to withdraw his motion for the present.Mr. Beaumont
669668 rose to call the attention of the House to the conduct of Sheriffs in refusing to call county meetings. It would be in the recollection of the House, that on Friday last a petition was presented by the noble lord who was member for Chester complaining of the conduct of the sheriff of the county, at a public meeting, in two instances. In the first place, it was alleged that he had prevented an amendment from being put; and, in the next, that he had not proposed the negative question on the original motion. In bringing forward this motion it was not his intention to discuss the particular conduct of this sheriff, nor to propose any vote of censure on him, in consequence of the course he had adopted. All he meant to do was, to state the general inconvenience which arose from the conduct of sheriffs, under certain circumstances, which inconvenience had been experienced in Northumberland, in Gloucester, in Kent, and in some other counties, and to endeavour to procure some legislative measure to prevent the recurrence of the evil in future. He would briefly introduce the subject to the House. With respect to the conduct that had been immediately complained of, it was most obvious that if a sheriff had the power of declaring to a public meeting what should and what should not be received—what he thought proper to permit and what he pleased to prevent—the inconvenience and injustice would be, that
669668Mr. Beaumont
 said, he thought that the motion of his hon. friend would have been for a general inquiry into the conduct of sheriffs as to the exercise of their discretion in refusing to call county meetings. His object, in giving the notice of last night, was to bring the conduct of the sheriff of Chester before the House, with a view, in case it should appear that he had acted improperly, of having him censured.Mr. Creevey
684 rose to oppose the motion. He had, he said, two or three short reasons for resisting any bill of supply under existing circumstances. The first reason was, that although the House had been sitting for three weeks, no estimate of the public expense had yet been presented to the House from any department of the administration; and he would not consent to grant the public money to any department, until a clear statement of the ground of its application were previously communicated to the House. In this resolution, indeed, he was the more confirmed by the language which he understood was unreservedly used about the Treasury, and which was generally believed by its adherents—namely, that the present would be a very short session, that all the public business would be over before Easter; that is, that ministers were safe, that the Queen was sacrificed, and that nobody cared about money. The estimates then should have been sooner presented. They ought, indeed, to be two or three weeks before the House, in order that such members as were disposed to attend to their duty, might have ample opportunity of examining those very voluminous and complicated documents, which, according to the existing practice, were seldom above a night or two on the table before the House was called upon to pronounce a final vote respecting them. Upon this, and upon other grounds, he felt it his duty to oppose the grant of any supply, until the will and the wants of the public were attended to by ministers. He had been told, that a certain lay-lord of the Admiralty (sir G. Warrender) as he was called by some, but whom he would call a sinecure and sham lord, had been heard to declare, in those circles of which this lord was such a splendid ornament, that he would come down and inflict signal punishment upon him, if he
684Mr. Creevey
 said, he would first remind the hon. gentleman that the word factious had not been used by any member. If such word had been applied to any portion of the House, he would have considered it disorderly; but certainly to apply the term factious to a majority of that House was still more disorderly,The Speaker
683 stated, in reply to the representation of the hon. gentleman with respect to the midshipmen in the Preventive Service, that one of the lords of the Admiralty had lately been sent to inspect and report on the state of these officers and the service in general, and the report made with respect to them was of the most gratifying nature. The midshipmen were found to conduct themselves in the most respectable manner; they messed together as the officers in the army did, and were in every respect in a state of the most perfect discipline. These midshipmen had passed their examination for lieutenants, and had therefore already learned their business. They now conducted this service in a manner that could not be excelled, and it was satisfactory to the Admiralty to be able to give them this employment in time of peace, at the same time that they became valuable to
683Sir G. Cockburn
 thought it was the duty of members to oppose any grants of supply while ministers continued to act in opposition to the declared wish of the people. It would not be regular to say that the majority of the House had, by last night's vote, declared war upon the people; but he would maintain that, as a majority on the other side persisted in not listening to the prayers of the people, it was but a fair exercise of their privilege, for members on his side to retaliate by refusing to grant any supplies.Sir R. Wilson
 though he thought it desirable to look carefully at the conduct of ministers in order to find out where retrenchment could be effected, did not see why the supply being already voted, the means should be withheld. He however thought the estimates ought to be laid before the House in the first week after the meeting of parliament. In war time this might not be easily done; but during peace there was no cause for not doing it. He should feel disposed to resist any new motion for supplies before the estimates were produced.Sir J. Newport,
 highly applauded the motives of the hon. gentleman, and was willing to afford him every information in his power; from which he believed he would find that the petition had not been neglected by government. In the subsequent trial alluded to by the hon. gentleman, the case of perjury against the prosecutors of the Bowditches was so clearly made out, that the lord chief justice, who presided at the trial, drew up a memorial to the Home department on the subject. This memorial was presented in October last, the original trial and sentence of the Bowditches having taken place in 1819. In consequence of the representation of the lord chief justice, Mrs. Mulraine was released from prison, upon the royal pardon being extended to her. One of the Bowditches had already suffered his term, and the sentence of the other two then in gaol did not appear to be at all affected by what transpired at the subsequent trial in question. It did not therefore appear necessary or proper to interfere with their punishment. The evidence was still strong against them as having forcibly carried away Miss Glenn.Mr. Clive
 said, the question at issue appeared to be with respect to the three remaining prisoners. One woman had been released at the instance of the lord chief justice; but he did not see that because he had made application in behalf of that one, it at all affected the other prisoners.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that the explanation given did not satisfy him; for if Miss Glenn, upon whose testimony the Bow-ditches were convicted, had perjured herself, then he was entitled to say, that the crime had not been committed which she swore to at first; and it followed that the parties ought not to have been continued in custody.Mr. Bennet
 assured the hon. member, that from private information, which he unfortunately possessed respecting the whole transaction, the view taken of the matter at the Home-office was the just one.Mr. Bankes
696 considered the order in council to be a breach of the fundamental principle of the church of Scotland, which admitted of the intervention of no superior authority with regard either to its discipline, the internal regulation of its affairs, or the topics to be alluded to in its public worship. This principle, as the history of Scotland showed, was long contended for both by word and act, and it had been established and ratified by the blood of persons who had thought it an object worthy to be fought for. It had been secured to Scotland at the union of the two Crowns, by several acts of parliament, and it was so fully acknowledged, that he was surprised this order in council had ever been issued. The act of queen Anne was passed under particular circumstances; and, as it was intended for the security of the succession, those who were interested in the privileges of the church of Scotland thought it unnecessary to interfere. It was not, however, on that account to be regarded as a precedent to be acted upon on future occasions. Although this order might not be dangerous in itself, yet as its object embraced subjects of religion, and a matter which had excited the attention of the whole country, it assumed an importance which it would not otherwise have possessed. The people in Scotland had ever been considered a highly religious people, and were well qualified by their education to weigh the motives of human action. He was convinced that they had well weighed the motives from which this order had emanated, and he feared they had been unable to find any good motive in which it could have originated. Was it sent down to promote the happiness of the country?—to promote the dignity and honour of the Crown?—to promote purity of religion and sanctity of morals? He had endeavoured to weigh it by these considerations, but had been unable to perceive how it could possibly have a tendency to promote any
696Lord Glenorchy
704nominatim.703702nominatim,nominatim.bona fide701700l.savingl.l.699l.698697 was almost persuaded that, notwithstanding what had been said by the noble mover, it would not be necessary for him to trespass long on the attention of the House. The noble lord professed to have made this motion for the purpose of raising the question on what grounds this order was justified, and that question he was perfectly prepared to meet. He thought the motion did the noble lord no discredit: it was perfectly consistent with the uniformly praiseworthy conduct of the noble lord, in watching over the interests of Scotland, and bringing under the notice of the House every subject connected with that country which might require investigation. He was sure, therefore, that the noble mover must have misunderstood the remarks in which he supposed his noble friend to have called the present motion a disgrace to the order-book. He had been lately in the habit of paying pretty close attention to the discussions in that House, and he certainly was not aware that any such statement had been made by the noble lord near him. Before he proceeded to answer the question involved in the present motion, he begged to assure both the noble lords opposite that he was by no means disposed to undervalue the rights and independence of the church of Scotland. It might perhaps be enough for him to say that ministers, in advising this order in council, had acted on the uniform practice of upwards of a hundred years. But he did not mean to rest the justification of the measure on usage: he would meet the argument fairly, and would say, that the issuing of this order was a legal exercise of power—that the king in council had in this case exercised a right founded on the law of the land. He was glad that it was not necessary for him to enter into the general question of the propriety of omitting the Queen's name in the prayers of the church; and he should accordingly confine himself to the proper question before the House; namely.—whether the Privy Council had a right to issue this order to the General Assembly of Scotland. That the right existed he contended, and he founded it on the act of the 10th of Anne, chap. 7,sec 10. By this enactment he con-
704nominatim.703702nominatim,nominatim.bona fide701700l.savingl.l.699l.698697The Lord Advocate
713712711 observed, that so little impression had the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman produced upon the argument of his noble friend, that he did not intend to dwell upon it for a moment. He rose rather for the purpose of calling back the attention of the House to the real question before it; but first he should remind the House of the objections which he had made on some former occasions to those who maintained that the tranquillity of the country depended on the insertion of the Queen's name in the Liturgy. He had stated, on such occasions, that if such were considered to be the case, those hon. gentlemen should have put the question into some shape in which it could be met directly and fairly, and not endeavour to introduce it by a side wind. He did not know whether those observations of his had produced the motion of the hon. gentleman (Mr. J. Smith) which the House had disposed of in such a marked manner; but he assured the noble lord, that the objections he had then made did not apply to such a motion as that now before the House. At the same time, it appeared to him that this motion
713712711Lord Castlereagh
 said, that if the noble mover had brought forward his motion for party purposes, as insinuated by the noble lord opposite, he, for one, would not support it. But he was satisfied that the motion had no such object, and thought the order was issued for the purpose of prejudging the Queen.Mr. Maxwell
715 in explanation, said, that he did not attribute any improper intention to the noble lord. He meant merely to state, that such motions had the tendency to irritate the public mind. With
715Lord Castlereagh,
 said, that a committee had been appointed to examine the state of the Scottish courts. The committee had reported, that the proceedings in the Court of Admiralty were very voluminous and expensive to the suitors, and recommended the abolition of the offices in question. The people holding those offices held them for life, and therefore had vested interests in them. The question was, whether theirs was not a case to entitle them to compensation?The Lord Advocate
 said, he could see no analogy in the cases put by the hon. member. The proceeding now before the House arose out of a report of that House; and the hon. member knew, or ought to have known, of the proceeding. Therefore, whatever opinion the hon. member might entertain on the score of common decency, there was certainly no ground for attributing improper haste to others.Mr. Robinson
 briefly replied. If the act of queen Anne was sufficient for their purpose, why was the order in council issued? The arguments of the case had been so ably disposed, as to leave him nothing to add. If the interpretation of that night, assumed by his majesty's ministers, namely, that they possessed a right to order the church of Scotland, should go to that country, he feared the House would lament that such an interpretation was ever made. The noble lord had charged him and his hon. friends around him, with a desire to poison the public mind. Now, if there was one man who had done every thing in his power to poison the public mind, to affix an indelible stigma on royalty, and to divide royalty against itself, it was most undoubtedly the noble lord. He had endeavoured, not alone to poison the public mind, but the very laws themselves, when he ventured to broach that most reprehensible doctrine, that after a trial, the Queen, though technically acquitted, was morally convicted. Such an assumption was an entire subversion of the principles of justice—it poisoned the administration of the laws at their source. He professed he could not see the possibility of the country being tranquillized as long as that declaration was withdrawn undenied.Lord A. Hamilton
695694God bless us all, is quite another thing.""Who the pretender is and who the king,693692691690 said, that in rising to make the motion of which he had given notice, for a copy of the order in council, directed to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, relative to the erasure of the Queen's name from the Liturgy, and also for the copy of a letter relating to the arrest of a clergyman in Scotland, he was sorry to find that there was every probability that a motion which he originally thought would be conceded was now to be opposed. This anticipation he formed from the extraordinary declaration of the noble lord opposite that this motion must be considered as a disgrace to the order-book of that House. He was anxious to give the noble lord an opportunity of disclaiming that expression, or of stating the grounds upon which he had used it. Knowing the influence of the noble lord upon the majority of that House, he was most anxious, before that influence was put into complete activity, to state the grounds which he deemed justificatory for submitting this question to the consideration of the House. It was a matter of general notoriety, that when the alteration in the form of the Li-
695694God bless us all, is quite another thing.""Who the pretender is and who the king,693692691690Lord Archibald Hamilton
 thought it was impossible to be too vigilant in the examination of claims on the public money. As so much weight had been attached to the idea of a vested interest in these offices, it might be a good rule upon the creation of any new office by the legislature, to insert a clause, declaring that in case of a future abolition of the office, the holder should not be entitled to any compensation.Mr. Bright
714 said, that the order in council had been shown to be most absurd and preposterous; and he must add, that it was most illegal. He would refer to the act of the 5th George 1st, chap. 29. This act had been passed in 1719. The last case quoted by his right hon. friend was in 1718, consequently the act was later authority than any of the cases cited. His right hon. friend said, that the act of Anne was still in force. Now, the 5th of George 1st prohibited any number of persons, exceeding nine, to assemble in a meeting-house or episcopal place of worship, who did not pray for the King, the Prince and Princess of Wales, and their issue, under the pain of imprisonment for six months. In this act there was no reference to the act of queen Anne. How, then, did the case stand? The act of Anne was either effectual, or it was ineffectual. If it was effectual, there was no need of a new act; if it was not effectual, and a new act was required, then had the force of the act of queen Anne ceased with her life. But, according to the noble lord, the 82nd of the late king applied to the church of Scotland, as well as to the Episcopalians. We were then in this situation: the act of George 3rd, repealed the act of Anne in favour of the suspected, against whom it had been originally passed, and left it in full force against the unsuspected, for whose protection it had been passed. He agreed with the noble lord, that the House ought not to interfere in cases of individuals; but the order in council was an attempt to introduce supremacy. He was certain
714Mr. J. P. Grant
 said, that had he known a distinction had been taken between the defendants upon a subsequent review of the case, he should not have made his motion. His only desire was to obtain an explanation, and that being given he had no desire to press it farther.Mr. Warre
688 rose, in pursuance of notice, to make a motion, which was in fact for information only, in the manner in which he meant to put the case. It was true that be meant to ground upon this information an ulterior measure, in the hope of obtaining some compensation for parties who had suffered such unmerited punishment. The circumstances to which he was about to call the attention of the house had been already familiar to the public—he meant the case of a family of the name of Bowditch and others, who were tried nearly three years ago at the assizes at Taunton, for the forcible abduction of Miss Glenn. Upon the evidence of that young lady, the parties were convicted; but at a subsequent period the statement given by Miss Glenn was found so inconsistent with truth, that she was prosecuted, and convicted of perjury in the evidence she gave which led to the conviction of the Bowditches. In consequence of that conviction, immediate steps were taken to obtain the mitigation of the unexpired part of their sentence; Mr. Harmer, a professional gentleman, was employed to prepare a memorial to the Home department, setting forth the new situation in which the Bowditches were placed, by the verdict against their prosecutrix. Notwithstanding the presentation of that memorial to lord Sidmouth, the Bowditches were detained in custody until the full expiration of their sentence. It was the circumstance of their detention between the period of Miss Glenn's conviction and the termination of the full sentence, that he complained of, and after the fullest consideration of the whole case,
688Mr. Warre
717 said, that when a noble friend of his had moved for the production of an account, gentlemen on the other side said, "Oh! for God's sake,
717Mr. Creevey
716l thought the least that might have been expected of the learned lord was, that he should lay some ground for his motion, and inform the House for what services they were now called upon to vote compensation. He for one was determined not to grant a single shilling till he knew what those services were. Their present business was to retrench—a notice had been given of a motion for taking off 3,000,000716lMr. Creevey
 said, that had the learned lord given that explanation before, it was probable the observations of his hon. friend would not have been made; for certainly the mode of the present proceeding was out of the course of practice in that House.Mr. W. Smith
710709708707706705 in rising to make a few observations on the very candid speeches which the House had heard from gentlemen on both sides, upon the motion of his noble friend, felt actuated by that warm affection for the interests of Scotland, which neither the lapse of time, nor distance, nor occupation would ever eradicate from his bosom. After the speech of his noble friend, so replete with facts and argument, he felt disinclined to address the House upon many of the points which it had embraced and indeed disposed of; he should therefore enter only upon the general principles of the motion. He was the rather disinclined to follow those who had preceded him, with any thing like minuteness, as the noble lord who had seconded the proposition, had done so, in a speech full of promise and distinguished for its propriety; he had given his powerful support, moved by that generous spirit
710709708707706705Sir James Mackintosh,
719718 said, that he did not rise to object to the first reading of this bill, for he should at all times be ready to give his utmost attention to any subject connected with the administration of justice in the Scottish courts. The hon. member had not communicated with him before he submitted his bill to parliament; if he had, he should have told
719718The Lord Advocate
 was not surprised that the learned lord should have felt a wish to make these observations on the present occasion; but, at the same time, he conceived that he himself was fully warranted in not having postponed his motion on account of the learned lord's absence the other evening. The learned lord had complained that many of his countrymen took pleasure in stating the defects of the establishments in Scotland. For himself, he was actuated by a very different motive: the love he cherished for the establishments of his country had prompted the desire of remedying their defects. The learned lord had said, that it was not enough to show the existence of theoretical defects, and that some practical defect should have been pointed out to warrant the introduction of such a measure as the present; but he (Mr. K.) was of opinion, that if he exhibited any tiling faulty in theory, which might lead to injurious imputations on the conduct of the learned judges who presided over the criminal court of Scotland, he did better than if he were to take any indelicate notice of the practice into which these learned persons were led by such a defective theory. He meant to propose that the bill should be printed and read a second time a week hence, with an understanding, that it should stand over till April, subject to any future postponement that might be necessary.Mr. Kennedy
 expressed his readiness to meet the hon. gentleman, and to maintain that that judgment was legal. He was the more confident on the subject, because that judgment had recently come under the consideration of the supreme court, and had received its sanction.The Lord Advocate
722 earnestly hoped, that the chancellor of the exchequer would give his earliest consideration to this important subject. He was most anxious to see this kind of commercial distinction speedily abolished. These duties, instead of being a protection for a certain portion of the Irish trade, were merely a tax
722Mr. Peel
 said, it had been made a matter of complaint by hon. gentlemen, that the measure for continuing those protecting duties had been brought in at the close of the last session, and passed with so much rapidity as not to allow of the necessary attention being paid to the subject. So far from that being the case, it was well known that as far back as the session previous to that, petitions had been presented in great numbers, praying for the renewal of the duties, and a deputation had been sent from Ireland, with the express intention of endeavouring to procure that object. It had been continually represented to him, that there would be great inconvenience in allowing the Irish manufacturer to be taken by surprise. Under these circumstances, he had introduced a measure which would provide for a gradual extinction of the duties. Whether the period fixed was too long or too short, or whether all the details of the measure he had recommended were best adapted to the case or not, he could not determine. But he certainly doubted whether the sudden withdrawing of the protection duties would not be productive of greater evils than those now complained of. It was certainly his desire to conciliate the different interests, and to decide upon this question in the way that would best contribute to the prosperity of each.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
723 said, that the temper in which this subject was-discussed was with him a subject of congratulation. These duties had been enacted at the Union for twenty years, with a view that at the end of that time they might be revised and possibly extinguished. He did not complain that the chancellor of the exchequer had acted unfairly in continuing them, but that he had acted with-
723Mr. M. Fitzgerald
725to said, that his object in rising was not 725toSir C. Long
 said, he should not discharge his duty if he did not bear testimony to the general facility given to the public by the trustees and the attending officers of the British Museum. By application to the proper officers, admission might be had to the coins, manuscripts, &c. on other days besides those on which the public were admitted. The officers employed were men of high literary attainments, and none could be found more fitted for the employments which they enjoyed. The French government expended more money in the care of their library than was given by us for the support of the British Museum altogether; and he was surprised how well the duty was discharged at so small an expense.Mr. Gurney
721 opposed the prayer of the petition, the object of which, if he understood it aright, was, to make the chancellor of the exchequer revise the act of last session, by which the protecting duties had been continued for a spe-
721Mr. Hutchinson
726 spoke of the decayed state of part of the Museum, and expressed his
726Mr. Bankes
 expressed his surprise, that the right hon. gentleman had left untouched the principal argument—which was, the increase of salaries to the clerks and other officers.Sir R. Fergusson
 supported the petition, on the general principle, that there should be no tax on the interchange of the commodities of the two countries. He admitted that those concerned in manufactures which existed before the union had a right to expect that these duties, if not continued, should at least be gradually removed: but there was not the same reason for continuing duties on manufactures which did not exist at all in Ireland, such as pottery and hardware, which were almost exclusively the manufactures of Staffordshire.Mr. Littleton
 seconded the motion.Lord Nugent
 concurred in what had been said respecting the facilities given to the public.Mr. Bright
 presented a petition from Keswick in Westmoreland, praying the House to consider the propriety of repealing the act of last session, for continuing the Irish Union Duties. The hon. member contended that the abolition of these protecting duties, as they were called, would be equally advantageous to the English and to the Irish manufacturer.Mr. Curwen
 could not sit silent and hear it said that the supreme court had recently approved of that sentence; because he knew that the ablest judge on that bench held opinions hostile to that sentence. There was scarcely a lawyer of eminence in Scotland who did not entertain grave doubts on the subject.Mr. J. P. Grant
736l.l.l.l.l.,735l.l.l.l.l.734l.l.l.l.quantum733732l.l.l.l.l.l.731l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.ll.730l.l.l.l.l.l.729l.,l.,l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.;l.;l.l.728l.l.l.l.l.,l.;l.l.,l.l.,l.l.l.,727l.l.,l.l.,l., rose to draw the attention of the House to the Ordnance Estimates for the present year, and to submit a motion on that subject; the reasons for which he should state in the first instance. That retrenchment was the object that he had in view, as well as the avowed object of the House itself, could hardly be doubted. It became necessary, therefore, to point out what alterations could, with the least inconvenience, be made; but in order to satisfy members with regard to particulars of this nature, it was also necessary that accurate and detailed accounts should be placed before them. The estimates, as at present framed, gave none of the requisite information: they entered into no details, but left the House utterly ignorant of all the items which went to compose the separate heads of expenditure. It was impossible for the House to judge what reductions were practicable or expedient, or to what extent they ought to be carried whilst the existing system of account between the public and the Ordnance department was allowed to prevail. The commissioners of military inquiry had in one of their reports advised that a different form of accounts should be adopted, and it was certainly singular that the House should have hitherto been content to vote the sums demanded, on an inspection merely of their total amount. The necessity for setting out these accounts in greater detail would appear manifest on a reference to the last ten or twelve years, during which, it would be found that, the sums actually disbursed did not correspond with the finance accounts.736l.l.l.l.l.,735l.l.l.l.l.734l.l.l.l.quantum733732l.l.l.l.l.l.731l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.ll.730l.l.l.l.l.l.729l.,l.,l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.;l.;l.l.728l.l.l.l.l.,l.;l.l.,l.l.,l.l.l.,727l.l.,l.l.,l.,Mr. Hume
720 not disposed to
720Mr. M. A Taylor
 agreed in the encomiums passed upon the trustees and officers, and suggested the propriety of erecting an edifice, which should be at once a commemoration of our victories, and a depot for the contents of the Museum.Mr. Colborne
742l.l.l.l.741740l.l.l.l.l.739l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.738l.l.Ex una disce omnes:l.l.l.;l.,l.737l. said, that the details required by the motion, when every particular should be entered into in such a way, that not a single figure could be kept back, would produce extreme inconvenience, and create much useless trouble. He had expected, that this subject would have been discussed in the regular course of committee, and not in single speeches between the hon. gentleman and himself. According to the usual practice, the estimates had been laid on the table; but he was not disinclined to furnish a separate paper for the information of the hon. gentleman. He had hoped that he should not have had to enter into the details then, but after the speech of the hon. gentleman, containing, as it did, some correct statements, and others very incorrect, he was much surprised to find, that such a speech had followed the notice that had been given. He did not deny the right which the hon. member had to enter upon the subject, but nothing could equal his astonishment on finding that he was involved in such a discussion after the notice by which the motion had been preceded. The hon. member had chosen to go into a very minute detail indeed; he had commenced with the first article in the estimates of 42,000742l.l.l.l.741740l.l.l.l.l.739l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.738l.l.Ex una disce omnes:l.l.l.;l.,l.737l.Mr. R. Ward
724 rose to make his promised motion upon this subject. In this establishment, he said, supported as it was at the public expence, the utmost possible facility should be afforded to the access of the public, but especially to those individuals who were devoted to literary and scientific pursuits. He was aware that of late years, a great freedom of ingress was allowed to those who visited the Museum merely for the gratification of curiosity, no less than 50,000 having been admitted within the last year; but what he had to complain of was the difficulty of admission on the part of those who for literary and scientific purposes were desirous to examine the library, to have access to the reading-room, or to see the several collections of minerals, prints, drawings, and coins. In France and the other continental nations, the utmost freedom of access was allowed to strangers who desired to see similar collections, and he could not think it honourable to the character of this country, that a different practice prevailed here. If it were said, that from the value of these collections at the Museum to which he referred, it would be imprudent to expose them to the access of strangers, he should say in answer, that an additional number of officers ought to be appointed to take care of them. This certainly would be a much less exceptionable arrangement than the existing restriction upon the admission of strangers. But the appointment of additional officers would be unnecessary, if it should appear that the Museum had
724Mr. Lennard
 contended, that the speech of his hon. friend had been left unanswered. Without entering into any detail, he would read an extract from the 6th report of the Committee of finance. The report stated, that "of late years a system of progressive increase of salaries had been extended to most of the public officers; but in the Ordnance department, this was carried to the greatest length." This, he contended, was sufficient to convince the House of the fallacy of the right hon. gentleman's speech.Sir H. Parnell
 supported the petition, which he conceived to involve a question of great importance. Numerous petitions were in progress, to the same effect, and he sincerely wished for some investigation into the subject. A greater mistake had never been committed than by the Irish parliament when they conceived that by these duties manufactures could be established in Ireland. Their effect was neither more nor less than to shut the Irish manufacturer out of the English market; and this was proved by the tact^ that Ireland had at the present moment no manufactures except where the market was free.Sir H. Parnell
 was convinced that these duties operated as a heavy tax, and threw a great impediment in the way of British manufacture. With respect to pottery, that manufacture never did exist in Ireland, and never could, because coal could not be had but at a heavy price. His opinion was, that all articles which were duty free should be put on the same footing. Though no duties existed, yet the port charges were the same with respect to the manufactures of Ireland as they were with regard to foreign countries. This operated as an injury to both countries. He hoped the chancellor of the exchequer would take the matter under his consideration. These discouragements tended greatly to the injury of the tillage of Ireland, and broke through a principle which was held in that House; namely, that of binding the two countries together by mutual interest, and doing away all cause of irritation and unpleasant feeling. It was with this view that in 1806 he had brought in the Grain intercourse, bill and experience had proved that that was a beneficial measure.Sir J. Newport
 was in favour of the prayer of the petition, because be conceived that no manufactory in Ireland would be injured by the removal of these protecting duties.Lord Althorp
 felt himself bound to oppose the extension of the poor rates to the shipping, and he did so, because it was the acknowledged tendency of the poor laws to swallow up all the property in the kingdom, and therefore it was necessary, by every possible means, to guard against their extension to any species of property not hitherto within their reach. There was no danger so certain, so inevitable, unless some remedy were shortly hit upon, as that the poor laws would, by degrees, swallow up every species of property that was liable to its operation. Would they, then, admit the dangerous principle of extending their effects by a measure of a private nature, which professed to confine its operation to a particular place, but which would establish a precedent for similar measures in every other port in the kingdom. One great misfortune in the system of poor-rates was, that it wore the appearance of humanity, whilst it produced real hardship and severity. He felt convinced that the poor-rates caused, in a great measure, the extent of public misery, at the same time, he did not mean to throw out the wild notion that the system could be entirely got rid of. The subject was one to be touched with gentleness; and so it had always been treated. The principle of the poor rates was this, that every parish should support its poor as long as it had the means; but the present bill went to subject to a tax property which was not now rated. He must therefore oppose the Bill.Mr. Frankland Lewis
 said, that the principle of his bill was by no means new. Legislative measures, similar in principle, had been adopted in Sunderland. The same thing was done with respect to Scarborough, Whitby, and Poole.Mr. Sykes
 said, that as much misconception prevailed on the subject of this bill, he would, in order to give time for the correction of that misconception, move, "That the bill be read a second time this day se'nnight."Mr. Sykes
796 felt himself bound to oppose the motion. A number of persons interested in the measure were waiting in town, and it would be to them a great inconvenience to postpone the second reading. He had the strongest objections to the bill; though it was introduced as a private bill, it yet involved important public questions, and principles which were quite new: and which would go to affect the general property of the country. It was agreed on all hands that the poor rates were an evil which ought to be repressed. The poor rates were a cancer which spread throughout the country; and it was not for parliament to encourage the growth of an evil so monstrous. The object of the bill was to subject a species of property to poor rates, which heretofore stood independent of that tax: what was this but an attempt to extend the evil? The bill was an attempt to introduce a tax in the port of Hull, which did
796Mr. Huskisson
 replied, that the Bank had taken the utmost pains to give effect to the exertions of the commissioners. The plan of Mr. Applegarth, did not consist of any superior improvement in the art of engraving, but in hardening a steel plate in such a manner, by a chymical process, as to give it that durability which would admit of any number of impressions being struck from it. But it was obvious that the perfection of the plate alone did not complete the process. The commission had to proceed upon a consideration of the greatest difficulty; namely, to consider whether it was possible to make, by human art, a plan which human art could not imitate. In the pursuit of their project they had corresponded with all quarters of Europe and America. They had availed themselves of all the means of obtaining information which they could possibly command, and had selected what appeared to them the best. Some which at first appeared inimitable were in the course of the inquiry, found capable of imitation; so that the commissioners had had repeatedly to change and vary their plans according to fresh circumstances.Mr. D. Gilbert
 said, that he must object to this motion, which would send forth in a printed form, through the medium of that House, a libel upon the administration of justice. He did not object to expressions merely offensive to ministers; but when it was said that innocent blood had been shed upon the scaffold, they ought to hesitate before they circulated such a statement throughout the country.Mr. Wynn
806 said, he did not agree in all the statements of the petitions, but he could not but strongly object to the attempt to get rid, by a side wind, of the old right of printing petitions. The hon. gentleman could not produce a single instance in which petitions were not printed as a matter of course for the last two years. His late lamented friend (Mr. Whitbread,) had said, on the occasion where an alteration had been made with
806Mr. Bennet
 said, that a more inflamed account of a possible grievance could not have been made, than that just given by the hon. member upon an objection being merely taken to the printing of a petition, which libelled the administration of justice throughout the country. Because they refused to print such a petition they were to be told that they were obstructing the right of petition? Since the arrangement had been made upon the subject of printing the votes, he only recollected one instance in which an objection had been taken to the language of a petition; so that the right of making the objection—which unquestionably existed, or else why put the question from the chair upon the printing—had not been captiously exercised. The old practice was, when arranging the votes, for the Speaker to order the petitions to be presented, omitting, however, any passages which might be deemed objectionable. By the new arrangement, the whole of each petition was printed. He certainly should vote against printing a petition containing such language.Lord Binning
808 said, he could not help admiring the strain of feeling in which the gallant member thought proper to indulge, when he launched out in describing acts of the most extraordinary description, and at once charged ministers with protecting from punishment known violators of the law. Thank God the people of England lived in a country where the ministers could not, if they Were so disposed, protect any individual who had offended against the laws from being amenable to their jurisdiction. The ministers had here no power to screen any man from the consequences of his act: the highest and the lowest were alike amenable to the law. Why did the gallant officer indulge in this theme of declamation, when the laws were open to the aggrieved party? Was it because it answered better the views of the gallant member, and others who thought with him, to keep this subject afloat as a topic
808Lord Castlereagh
 said, it was open to the hon. general to establish his charge before a competent tribunal.Lord Castlereagh
809 could not accede to the pro-
809Mr. Wynnn
 contended, that the House had sanctioned the principle that a petition might be received and not be printed, by deciding that after it had been laid on the table there should be a distinct question "that this petition be printed."Mr. Bathurst
 declared that the magistrates of Manchester were anxious, for a full inquiry into their conduct. No bills had been presented against any of them. As to the yeomanry, they stood in a situation somewhat different; for bills had been presented against them, and had been thrown out by the grand jury.Mr. B. Wilbraham
 observed, that the House had last session rejected a motion for the printing a petition; and if there was ever a case in which the House should exercise its discretion, it was in the case of this petition, the language of which, was so universally acknowledged to be objectionable.Mr. Lushington
817 said, that the only object of his hon. friend was, to make some provision against the recurrence of such conduct as the petitioners complained of. As to the approbation of his conduct, upon which the high sheriff professed to rely, that approbation came only from one quarter. There was not a single individual on the other side whose appro-
817Mr. Philips
 said, that the first point upon which the conduct of the sheriff was arraigned, was, that he had called a meeting of the nobility, gentry, and freeholders, and not of the freeholders and inhabitants. Now, he contended, that in so doing, the sheriff had only discharged his duty; for he believed the practice of summoning the inhabitants to county meetings was of very recent date. A county meeting, in the constitutional sense, was a meeting of the freeholders of the county, of those persons only who had a right to attend the county court. As to the charge, that the sheriff did not put the amendment, he really was not aware that the forms of that House, however excellent, were of such high authority, that every public meeting in the kingdom was bound to copy them. It appeared that an amendment to the original address had been proposed by lord Grosvenor, and that the sheriff, instead of putting the amendment in the first instance, had taken the sense of the meeting upon the original address. Now, he really could not see why the sense of the meeting might not be as fairly collected in this way as by following the forms of that House. There was another charge against the sheriff, that he had refused a division when it was called for. Now he had heard of a great many county meetings, but he had never heard of a division taking place at such a meeting. The objection was perfectly frivolous, and honourable members, who knew how much time a division occupied in that House, must be aware that the numbers at a county meeting could scarcely be counted on a winter's day. He thought the sheriff had exercised no more than a legal discretion, and that, whether legal or otherwise, his conduct ought not to become the subject of inquiry in that House.Mr. Wynn
820 said, he was present at the meeting, and certainly there was a material difference between the terms of the requisition as it had been read by the hon. member for Cheshire, and the terms which were actually employed. The hon. gentleman had stated it to be a requisition for a loyal address to his majesty; but the words of the requisition were, "We, the undersigned, call upon you to eonvene a meeting, for the purpose of declaring to his majesty the sentiments of loyalty and attachment to the throne which animate the breasts of the inhabitants of this county." He was sorry to hear it denied by the sheriff, that he had refused to put the amendment; for the fact was, that he had distinctly said, "I take upon myself to refuse putting the amendment to the meeting.". He regretted that he was obliged to complain of the conduct of several gentlemen with whom he had the pleasure of being personally acquainted, but without entering into details, he would only observe, that so extraordinary was the behaviour of some of those gentlemen, and so great was the confusion, that though he was close to the chair, he could not hear the vote of thanks to the sheriff. The sheriff withdrew precipitately from the hall, and the whole transaction reflected disgrace upon the county to which he had the honour and the happiness to belong. The two important points were, that the sheriff had first refused to put the amendment, and next, that he had not allowed a division, though in truth there ought to have been little difference of sentiment, since the address and the amendment, rightly viewed, were hardly distinguishable. he was anxious that the authority of the sheriffs of counties should be supported, as he knew that it was as important to a county that its sheriffs should be looked up to with respect, as it was to the city of London that it should have a magnificent lord mayor. But, he wished the House to remember in what manner the sheriffs had formerly been chosen by the people, and he wished them to look carefully at any proceedings that went to make them act as the mere instruments of the Crown. Up to the 9th of Edward 2nd the sheriffs were always chosen by the people, as much as members of parliament were at present. He shewed how this right had fared in different parts of the kingdom. In the county of Westmor-
820Lord Belgrave
821 felt that no case had been made out to impeach the conduct of the individual in question. No insinuation had been uttered against the intentions of the sheriff, and his letter bespoke a mind of the utmost candour and liberality. He protested against the doctrine, that whenever a charge was brought forward casting even the remotest doubt, an inquiry ought instantly to be commenced. If the House suffered itself to be dragged into such investigations, they must be interminable. He should be sorry indeed to see county meetings in any way discouraged, because from them the public sentiment was to be collected; but it was to he remembered that, by law, the sheriff was invested with a discretion whether he would or would not call them, and no more effectual mode could be adopted to induce him to decide against them, than to threaten that his conduct as president, however impartial, should be made the subject of complaint and inquiry, provided he were guilty of the slightest breach of the most insignificant forms. Besides, such a jurisdiction did not in fact belong to the House of Commons. If the conduct of sheriffs at county meetings was to be made the subject of the labour of committees, in what way were other assemblies whether convened by lords lieutenants, by magistrates, or in private rooms, to be excluded. The presidents of all these might in turn be brought before the House, whose functions were ill qualified for such a
821Lord Castlereagh
 observed, that though the object of this bill was not to impute any blame to the African company, the effect of it certainly was, to cast an imputation upon it. The House had heard much of late of the impropriety of prejudging a ease before a trial; but the House, in acceding to this motion, was going to condemn a party which, on a former occasion, had been acquitted by a committee of its own selection. Gentleman would recollect, that after the affairs of the African company had been submitted to the consideration of a committee, the committee had declared itself satisfied with the manner in which they were administered, and had merely recommended that the governor of its settlements should be appointed by his majesty, that the number of its forts should be diminished, and that the number of governors should be reduced from nine to six. What had occurred since that period to show the necessity of altering the manner in which the affairs of that settlement were regulated he did not know. The right hon. gentleman had not stated any cause for altering it, and a. very deserving officer, (sir G. Collier)had spoken in high terms of the internal administration of it. He wished to remind the House, that that company had opened a communication with the king of Ashantee, and with others of the native chieftains, from which there was a certainty of obtaining better intelligence respecting the interior of Africa than any which had been yet acquired; while two expeditions which had been sent out from Sierra Leone, at a cost of thirty or forty thousand pounds to the country, had entirely failed in the objects for which they had been fitted out. He did not see why a company which was acknowleged on all hands to have acted meritoriously should be abolished, without the necessity of the abolition of it being shown to a committee.Mr. Marryat
l.l.l. said, he had been a member of the committee to which the affairs-of the African company had been referred, and had been instrumental in the drawing up of the report which it had presented to the House. When the commit* tee recommended that the sovereignty of the settlements on the Gold Coast should be continued to the African company, if had done so from the difficulty of knowing how to avoid many evils which another system of government was certain to introduce. His majesty's ministers had since laboured under the same difficulty; and he was informed that they had considered many plans for the administration of those settlements before they had determined on taking them under their own control and governance. That measure appeared to him to be wise and politic, and calculated to produce the most beneficial effects. He did not see what right the African company had to complain of these forts being taken out of their hands. They were originally placed under their control to support the slave trade: and one would suppose that when the slave trade was abolished those forts would be abolished also. Besides, the country paid from 25,000l.l.l.Mr. Gordon
 thought it of the highest importance, that the House should inquire whether the sheriff in this instance had violated a public principle, or merely deviated from a formal rule. Contradictory statements had been submitted to them, and it therefore became necessary, in order to get at the facts, that the subject should be referred to a committee. That some further explanation was desirable, had, he thought, become obvious. An hon. member had observed, that he should have been more inclined to pay attention to this complaint, had the sheriff refused to convene the county. Now to him it appeared that a refusal to collect and to ascertain the sense of the county when it was assembled, called still more loudly for the notice of that House. It was far from his intention to dispute the respectability of the sheriff's character; indeed, that respectability added to the importance of not suffering his example to become a precedent. It had been urged that the practice of convening counties under the authority of the sheriff was but of recent dale. He agreed that they had no judicial power over such assemblies:—they were in a situation similar to that which they held in their county courts. In the latter case the jury, and in the former the freeholders, were the judges. The office, of sheriff was purely ministerial; when he refused, therefore, to put an amendment, he exercised a discretion with which he was not invested. The persons assembled, and not the sheriff, were to pronounce an opinion on the relevancy or non-relevancy of the proposition submitted to them. It was to that House alone that the people could look for redress of a grievance of this nature. A court of law could afford none; but the animadversion of the House, and a recorded statement of its opinion, could hardly fail to prevent a repetition of the abuse.Mr. A. Moore
 said, that not having been present at the meeting referred to, he hoped he should be excused for offering a few observations. The sheriff was as independent in character and fortune as any man in the county, and if he had acted wrong it was only an error in judgment. He had never heard that he was a party man. Was it to be said that he was a party man because he was connected with a yeomanry corps? That yeomanry corps had been raised by a subscription at a county meeting convened for that purpose. A committee had then been appointed, not only for the management of the funds, but the nomination of officers. If it was a party corps, it was an extraordinary party, for whigs and torries had subscribed. The House should recollect, before they agreed to 6uch a motion, that it was no trifling matter to drag the high sheriff up to attend a committee of that House. The office of high sheriff was an arduous, and generally a thankless office.Mr. Davenport
 thought that this was not a matter in which the House could constitutionally interfere. In cases where the privileges of the House were concerned, they had the power of calling the party offending to the bar. The sheriff was undoubtedly amenable to the House in all cases of election, but he was not aware that the House could constitutionally exercise any control over the sheriff in other cases. It certainly did not appear from Black-stone, that the sheriff was subject to the control of this House in any matters except those connected with the election of knights of the shire. He begged not to be understood as wishing to abridge the privileges of the House; but the facts of the present case did not appear to him to justify their interposition. The sheriff was a gentleman whose impartiality and purity of conduct were unquestionable, He was persuaded that he went to the meeting with a firm determination to do his duty with impartiality. One of the charges against him was, that he did not summon the inhabitants, though required to do so; another, that he refused to put the amendment, Now, he did not know what law there was to compel a sheriff to put the amendment. As to the other charge, that he refused to divide the meeting, but contented himself with a shew of hands, the usual mode of taking the sense of a meeting was by a shew of hands, and the constitutional appeal from the sheriff's decision was to a poll; but this was a case which did not admit of a poll. He believed the fact was, that the room in which the meeting took place was so full, that it was next to impossible to divide. He certainly regretted that the sheriff had not allowed his noble friend to be heard; at the same time he must observe that some expressions which had been used by his noble friend were received with strong marks of disapprobation, and might account therefore for his not obtaining a hearing. He trusted the House would not yield to this motion, and by so doing afford a triumph to those tribunes of the people who had liberty in their mouths, but anarchy in their hearts.Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
 hoped the House would not think it necessary to notice the conduct of the high sheriff, unless something more serious were established against him. The case as it now appeared was, that lord Grosvenor and the petitioners had been outnumbered, and felt sore in consequence. If they did not like the manner in which the meeting was conducted, why could they not have withdrawn to some other place and voted counter-resolutions?Mr. Gipps
 thought it must be the desire of the House to put the petition in print. The phrase "disgraceful acts of parliament," must be understood as applicable to the conduct of ministers; and he contended that the people had a right to stigmatise acts of parliament carried by the influence of ministers. With respect to the other parts of the petition he considered that the people had a constitutional right to go great lengths in the language of petition. With respect to the transactions at Manchester, nothing on that subject which had occurred since those transactions, had altered his original opinion. Indeed he thought that what had happened since, had done more to abate the respect of the people for the administration of the public justice than any thing he had ever known before. Nothing had so tended to shake the confidence of the people in that best and surest support of a government. He regretted that the grand jury of Lancaster had not found the bills of indictment; because, had they found those bills, the 'subsequent proceedings upon them, the conviction or acquittal of the accused would have restored the public confidence in the laws.Mr. Brougham
818 said, it was of the utmost importance, that the right of petitioning should not be violated, that the country might know whether the noble lord op-
818Mr. Curwen
804 rose to put a question to the hon. member for Bodmin upon a subject of great public importance. His question related to the steps now taken by the commissioners who were appointed to inquire into the best means of preventing the forgery of Bank notes. It was within the last few days rumoured that Mr. Applegarth's plan of a Bank note which was to render imitation almost impossible, had entirely failed: he hoped, on every ground of policy and humanity that this rumour was not correct. At all events, be hoped that the commissioners would not, on account of one discouraging circumstance, drop their proceeedings. He knew that it was impossible to get any plan which could be pronounced inimitable; but they might obtain a plan which would render forgery so extremely expensive and difficult, as to make that pursuit impossible for those who pursue it.
804Mr. Curwen
 was convinced that the sheriff of Chester had not acted with any intentional partiality, even if he had erred on a point of form. He must therefore oppose the motion.Mr. Warre
822 then shortly replied. The
822Mr. Creevey
815814813812 rose for the purpose of submitting a motion, founded upon a petition from the freeholders of the county of Chester, which petition was presented to the House on the 9th instant. In the first place, he would move that that petition be read. [The petition was here read by the clerk.] He understood the case to be briefly this:—A meeting of the nobility, clergy, gentry, and freeholders of Cheshire was convened by the sheriff. At that meeting an address was submitted. An amendment to the address was moved and seconded by two noblemen, earl Grosvenor, and lord Crewe; the effect of which was to suggest another and a different address, deprecating the conduct of ministers, and requiring the restoration of her majesty's name to the Liturgy. Both addresses were equally loyal, but there was this material difference between them, that the one moved by lord Grosvenor entered into a little detail of facts and opinions, which it was thought right to submit to the consideration of his majesty, with regard to which the address on the other side was totally silent. The petitioners complained that the sheriff refused to put the address of lord Grosvenor at all, and also, that he would not allow the negative to be put upon the address of the other side, declaring on the first show of hands, that the majority of the meeting were in its favour, and immediately withdrawing himself from the chair. The petitioners further alleged, that the majority of the meeting were adverse to the original address, and decidedly for that of lord Grosvenor, as would have been testified had the sheriff put that address first, as they conceived it his duty, as that was an amendment upon the address originally proposed. If
815814813812Mr. Creevey
810 denied that Ire had ex-
810Mr. Denman
805l. said, he held in his hand a petition from the people of Nottingham, praying for an inquiry into the state of the country—praying specifically for an inquiry into the transactions which took place at Manchester, and also that articles of impeachment might be exhibited against ministers. In the absence of ministers he would not stop to say how far their conduct appeared to him to deserve the severe imputations cast upon them. In presenting this petition he thought it right to observe that the language, although strong, and perhaps extremely so in one or two passages, was yet on the whole what he could not but consider applicable to the circumstances to which the petitioners referred. And when the House recollected that the petition came from a town where, though trade was said to have revived, there yet remained an arrear of 6,000805l.Mr. Denman
816 said, that as soon as the petition was known in the county, the high sheriff had written a letter explaining his conduct, which, with permission of the House, he would read. The letter was hastily written, as little time was left for explanation of the circumstances. [Hear the hon. member read the letter] The high sheriff admitted that he had acceded to earl Grosvenor's proposal to adjourn the meeting to the fields, believing the Salt-house to be too small: but that, on a representation by others that the place
816Mr. Egerton
 said, that if he had been in the House when the petition was read, he should have objected to its lying on the table; but he thought that as it had been received it ought to be printed.Sir M. W. Ridley
 said, he had not asserted any thing that he was not prepared to prove. He charged the parties to the transaction of the 16th of August with murder, and he was prepared to take the responsibility of that charge.Sir R. Wilson
807 was not prepared to say that blood had been shed innocently upon the scaffold, yet he was ready to
807Sir Robert Wilson
 said, he would take that opportunity of making a few observations with respect to the Milan commission. When he first brought this subject before the House, the noble lord opposite said he should be perfectly ready to promote an investigation when the proper time arrived. But how had the noble lord redeemed his pledge? He now said he should be ready to meet the question, if a motion were made on his (sir R. F's.) side of the House. What a mockery was this language on the part of the noble lord, when the noble lord and his adherents were determined to oppose any proposition which came from that side of the House. When he saw a great majority of that House blindly following a minister, and disregarding the wishes of the country, it would be folly in him to submit any motion on the subject to the House.Sir R. Fergusson
 thought the observations of the hon. and learned gentleman were wholly uncalled for by the circumstances under which this petition was brought before the House. With respect to the conduct of the Milan commission, those individuals had been most anxious to have the whole of the proceedings investigated. It had never, however, been the parliamentary practice, that a mere desire on the part of any individuals should be considered as a motive sufficiently strong of itself for the institution of an inquiry. If it had been expedient to institute an inquiry, they would have been able to satisfy the House that they had acted in conformity with the principles of British justice,Lord Castlereagh
 concurred in the propriety of his gallant friend's determination. In the present temper of the House there was little chance of his obtaining the object he had in view. But the time would come when the country would demand inquiry into the infamous transactions of the Milan commission.Mr. Bennet
879coup de main878877876875874873872871870869868867866 observed, that in proceeding to examine some of the positions of the hon. and learned gentleman he was perfectly willing to join in many of the sentiments and general principles which he had laid down. His duty Would be best discharged, however, by confining himself as strictly as the nature of the question would permit, to a discussion of those grounds which were immediately applicable to the vote to which the House would have to come. In the first place, then, he must say, that he could see no reason for the House to express any opinion at that moment, unless the state of Europe called for its interposition. It was not the practice of parliament to desire any disclosure of a pending negotiation with foreign powers; and as we were riot principals in the negotiation alluded to, it would be as inconsistent with good faith as with delicacy to compel his majesty's ministers to make any further disclosures on that subject at present. If he should now offer any general observations, it would still be with the view of stripping the main point in question of that colouring which the brilliant talents of the hon. and learned gentleman had thrown over it. He was himself placed in a somewhat whimsical situation by the argument of the hon. and learned gentleman. We were now at the end of a long course of
879coup de main878877876875874873872871870869868867866Lord Castlereagh
 assured the gallant general, that he had never heard a word about such a circumstance before.Lord Castlereagh
 defended the Neapolitans against the charge of endeavouring to draw the subjects of other states from their allegiance. The inhabitants of Ponte Corvo sent deputies, at the commencement of the revolution, with a desire to become parties, but the Neapolitans, so far from taking an advantage of that disposition, actually reconciled them to the Pope, and induced them to return to their allegiance.Colonel Davies
 said, the right hon. gentleman had misrepresented the views of his noblefriend. His noble friend had presented a paper to the House; and any one would suppose from the argument of the right hon. gentleman, that the paper was laid on the table to justify the measures of the allied powers. The fact was, the paper was produced to convince the House, that whatever might be the course of proceeding adopted by the allies, this country was no party to the transaction. Then the right hon. gentleman said, the House ought to be put in possession of all communications. In the paper before the House there was allusion to the communication which the right hon. gentleman appeared to consider so mysterious. Unless the right hon. gentleman could show some good ground for bringing the communications to the test, it was too much to call upon the House to say that the true course had not been taken by his majesty's government. No opportunity had been omitted of stating the view which government took; and with respect to that view, he would say, that government would not have clone their duty if they had omitted to state it. The right hon. gentleman had alluded to some stories of prince Metternich having expressed a desire that the present ministers should remain in office. This was quite new to him. But he had heard a story relative to the sentiments which gentlemen of high consideration in this country entertained with respect to a celebrated individual, now in a remote quarter of the globe. And certainly it could not be surprising that prince Metternich should feel considerable alarm at the prospect of a change of ministry, which was to release Buonaparté from the island of St. Helena.Mr. Robinson
892891 thought that the decision of the House that night would depend much on the confidence reposed in his majesty's ministers. The gentlemen opposite, who professed to entertain no such confidence, might vote for the motion; but he could not see how those who retained confidence in the noble lord could support it. If the motion were carried, he should say that the noble lord was pronounced by the House unworthy to retain his office; and therefore he, for one, should vote against it. He agreed, however, with his hon. and learned friend who had introduced this subject with a display of eloquence which he would not presume to praise, that the late proceedings of the allied sovereigns formed a precedent as dangerous in its consequences, as it was unwarrantable in principle. The march of the Austrian army towards Naples, and the steps preceding that movement, he looked upon as the most alarming circumstances that had occurred in Europe for a long period of time. He did not deny that cases might
892891The Hon. J. W. Ward
 said, that it was impossible for him to give a more direct denial to the statement of the hon. gentleman than that which he had given. He had never heard of the circumstance; and he therefore could not be expected to speak to a circumstance of which he had till now been ignorant.Lord Castlereagh
890 hoped that as there could be no doubt that he had been personally alluded to by the right hon. gentleman, the House would indulge him with an opportunity of offering a few remarks in ex-
890Mr. Tierney
889888887 thought that the noble lord had granted too much or too little. If the circular of our government had not been on the journals—if the notice of it had occurred incidentally—he would then have agreed that a division was the thing most to be avoided. But he could not see how it was possible for the House, having a paper before it which was attacked on one side and defended on the other, could give any opinion on that paper, without further information. The House of Commons would present an extraordinary appearance abroad, if they were to be checked, not in taking any step, but in calling for information. He considered the paper which had given rise to this discussion as the most important that had been laid before parliament for many years; and coupling it with the speech of the noble lord, he viewed it with great anxiety. The noble lord had stated, that he had sent to the great powers on the continent such remonstrances, from time to time, as must convince them of the sincerity of his majesty's ministers in their determination to take a neutral course. Now, he meant nothing uncivil to the noble lord, but he certainly should be glad to see the re-
889888887Mr. Tierney
893 rejoiced to hear the testimony which had been borne by the hon. gentleman who had last spoken, by the hon. member for Yorkshire, and by the gentleman who had spoken from his side of the House; and he rejoiced the more at that testimony, because Europe would now perceive, and the congress at Laybach would perceive, that this was not a decision of the English House of Commons in their favour; that it was not even a delay of judgment against them; that it was not an opinion pronounced on the mighty question which now agitated Europe, and which he hoped would at last end in general liberty. He hoped that it would produce liberty, if possible, by peace: but, if that were not possible, then by war—a war which he hoped! not to see this country engage in, but a war imposed as a necessary duty upon those on whose liberties an attack was about to be made. He was not sanguine enough to expect that the first results of that war would be favourable to Naples. But let the immediate result be what it might, though at first defeated, the seed would be sown, the foundation would be laid for better exertions, and for eventual success. Though defeated in the south, they would break out in the north; and though they might even then be quelled, yet Germany itself was not insensible to the struggle. After the part which he had taken five years ago in a debate upon a question in some degree allied to the present, he could not possibly reconcile it to himself to give a silent vote on the present occasion. Once more he entreated, that no
893Mr. Brougham
886 said, it appeared to him, after the explanation given by the noble lord, that there remained no room for jealousy on this subject. When the noble lord stated that he had, before the 19th of January, expressed the same opinion which he now held, he conceived that declaration rendered the motion unnecessary. If it had not been made, it would, he thought, have afforded a good ground for dividing the House. His great reason for rising was, to lay before the House his protest against the doctrines contained in
886Mr. Stuart Wortley
885884 observed, that whether the constitution now established at Naples, in the way stated by his noble friend, was or was not likely to prove a good one, was not the question for consideration. His noble friend in his state paper had very properly divided the subject into two parts. The first, containing certain general principles; and the second, referring to the application of those principles. His noble friend had confined his argument to the latter subject; but the first part bore on his mind as being infinitely more important. That the three greatest military powers of Europe should assume to themselves the right of saying to other states—"You shall form no constitution, except that which we please to sanction," was a principle hostile to every idea of liberty. He could scarcely conceive any principle in itself so unjust or so abominable. His noble friend had distinctly set forth, in the state paper which had been laid on the table, that this principle was not only contrary to the constitution of the country, but to the general laws of nations; but still he felt indebted to his hon. and learned friend for bringing this question under consideration, in order that the principle to which he had adverted might receive the utter reprobation of the House. His noble friend would allow him to state, that it might be supposed, when those foreign powers made such a proposition to this
885884Mr. Wilberforce
865864abouchementsabouchements,863abouchements des Rois862861"License they mean when they cry liberty; For who means that must first be wise and good."860caput mortuum859858veto857thisThat"At non ille, satum quo te mentiris, Achilles "Talis in hoste fuit."856mightmightnil horum.855monstrations des droits.854853852851850849848847primâ facie846habe-mus confitentem reum;845844843842841non meus hic sermo."840839838 proceeded with his motion. He commenced by expressing the readiness with which he should have complied with the desire of his hon. and learned friend, were it not that he saw the anxiety of the House to permit him to go on with the important business of which he had given notice. Indeed, he should have wished to have postponed his motion, were it not for the strong and argent necessity which called upon him
865864abouchementsabouchements,863abouchements des Rois862861"License they mean when they cry liberty; For who means that must first be wise and good."860caput mortuum859858veto857thisThat"At non ille, satum quo te mentiris, Achilles "Talis in hoste fuit."856mightmightnil horum.855monstrations des droits.854853852851850849848847primâ facie846habe-mus confitentem reum;845844843842841non meus hic sermo."840839838Sir James Mackintosh
837 expressed his entire approbation of the conduct of his gallant friend, in declining to bring forward any motion after the late divisions in that House, divisions upon which he (sir James) forbore to make any observation. He would abstain from all reflection upon them—he would leave them to the judgment of the country and of posterity; he would only say that they fully justified the prudent resolution of his hon. and gallant friend. He knew nothing of the particulars of the Milan commission; all he knew was, that a general suspicion had arisen as to their proceedings, which was not confined to any party in that House, but had extended throughout Europe. Under these circumstances he was astonished that the persons who formed that commission, filling, as they did, most respectable stations in life, did not themselves insist upon an inquiry into
837Sir J. Mackintosh
894prima facie rose to reply. After all that had been said, he felt satisfied that in making his motion for further information, he had given to the members of the House an opportunity of expressing in a mild and safe manner, their condemnation of the principles upon which the Holy Alliance had proceeded. The president of the board of trade had observed, that there was no use in asking for information, unless it were intended to be followed by a motion for censure. Were there, then, sufficient grounds, it had been asked, on a 894prima facieSir J. Mackintosh
882881880 said, that the noble lord had not in his long harangue shown himself to be any great economist of time at least, for he had entered largely into topics quite extraneous from the present debate. He should not follow the noble lord into these wanderings, but he must
882881880Sir Robert Wilson
883 begged to assure the noble lord that he rejoiced at this removal of such an imputation from the character of the country: he had felt it his duty to inquire respecting it thus publicly, because it had been communicated to him as a fact from very high authority, and because he was anxious, if it could be contradicted, that that contradiction should be most complete. The operations of the Carbonari were said to be secret: that was not extraordinary when they knew the powerful opponents with whom they had to combat. They were said to be numerous, and to amount to hundreds of thousands:—so they ought, if their object was the assertion of their liberties; and their numbers would soon, he trusted, become millions, if liberty were to be assailed by despotism. The gallant member then took a rapid review of the acts which at different periods of their respective reigns had marked the career of the allied sovereigns, and rendered their present indignation at a military revolution, effected suddenly and secretly, most extraordinary. The present emperor of Russia had ascended the throne by the means of a secret military revolution; and yet no complaint was made of his accession under such circumstances. Had not another of these sovereigns promoted the defection of general Yorck from his allegiance? And did not Austria induce the Saxon army to desert the colours of their sovereign in the battle of Leipsic? It was singular that these sovereigns, who had all in their turn promoted disaffection, should now threaten to decimate troops who only followed their example. But how did the present conduct of these allies accord with what they had done at Vienna, when, en the 12th of May, 1815, the ministers of the allied powers drew up a declaration, which they published to Europe, stating, "that the governments they represented
883Sir R. Wilson
901 could not concur in opi-
901Mr. Grenfell
 conceived that his hon. friend had done a public good by bringing the question before the House. It was not a subject to be settled on what was called a grand debate; it required great consideration, and the House should not shrink from the avowal of the truth. He was not disposed to touch the law which had been lately made upon the subject; yet it was his conviction, that the attempt to bring about the restoration of the currency was at the bottom of the public distress. He sincerely hoped that the distress and embarrassment of the present day would operate as a solemn warning to future times, not to depart from the established standard of value. Ordered to lie on the table.Mr. Baring
909908 said, he thought it right to declare on the part of the Irish government, that they had no connexion, publicly or privatety, with any of the proceedings which formed the subject of the petition. He deemed it further necessary to say, that no man deprecated more than he did the unnecessary interference of the military power: no one was more convinced that such interference was generally inexpedient; and he could say, that such was the conviction of the Irish government; appealing boldly to those who had witnessed the conduct of that government since he had been connected with it, whether they had shewn any disposition unnecessarily to resort to military force. The system of the Irish government had been, not to interfere; and he should continue to adhere to the same course on this question. He did not stand there as the defender of the high sheriff, but to state what the Irish government had done, and what, in his view, the House should do. But it was but just for him to mention what statement the high sheriff had given in. He should not remark on the degree of credit due to either of the statements; but it was fair that both of them should be before the House, and as to the main facts, it would be seen that the sheriff decisively contradicted the petitioners. The Irish government, when it had received the address had required an explanation from the sheriff, which he accordingly gave. Whenever the petitioners had alleged that he had not put the question whether there should be an address, the sheriff asserted that he did put the question, which was carried without opposition. The committee was not appointed by him, but
909908Mr. C. Grant
911910 said, that he gave full credit to the right hon. gentleman for his desire to communicate to the people of Ireland the principles of the British constitution; but yet he must declare, that he thought his objections to the motion perfectly futile and inconclusive. The right hon. gentleman had much underrated the importance of this question, which involved nothing less than the right of petitioning, and which right it was the imperative duty of that House to assert and maintain. With respect to the reference of the case to a court of law, in what shape could such an appeal be made? Was it to be made to the grand jury, which might be impannelled by the sheriff himself, or which would most probably consist of the very persons who had approved of that conduct of which the petitioners complained? But supposing even a successful appeal to a court of law terminating in the punishment of the sheriff, would that punishment afford adequate redress to the country for the injury which this individual had done to the popular privilege of petitioning, especially in the introduction of a military force to disperse a meeting convened by his own authority? He did not mean to deny the right of the petitioners to appeal to a court of law upon this question, but be maintained that such an appeal could lead to no practical effect. The idea appeared to him. quite monstrous, of referring such a case as the present to any court of law, while that House was sitting, which ought to be the peculiar guardian of popular rights. The present question did not refer merely to the county of Dublin, but to every county, for if it were allowed to introduce the army for the purpose of dispersing a county meeting in Dublin, what was to prevent the example from being universally acted upon? With respect to the allegations in the petition, the court-house was crowded before the mover and seconder of the ori-
911910Mr. M. Fitzgerald
molliter manus imponere,912 of Dublin, said, that he had not the slightest acquaintance with the sheriff; but having been at the meeting, it would be a dereliction of duty in him not to come forward and state what he knew. He would speak not as an advocate, but as a witness. It was absolutely impossible that the petitioners could have been guilty of premeditated misrepresentation; but they had stated many things calculated to mislead the judgment of the House. He himself had observed placards on the walls of the most inflammatory nature. The sheriff was attended by sixteen police-officers. He (Mr. Ellis) had heard the question put, but he was bound to say that he had not heard the negative put. But the sheriff and the noble lord who seconded the address, had both convinced him that the negative had been put. He was bound in candour to say, that he would not have acted as I the sheriff had acted. But the sheriff's situation was one of considerable difficulty. It was one of the most difficult I questions that could occur to ascertain where relevancy ended and irrelevancy commenced. It depended on the mode of the speaker, and the temper of the listener. If the sheriff had taken the wrong side of a difficult discretion, was he, on that account, to be calumniated, and to be dragged to the bar of that House without the imputation of a corrupt motive? If he had committed a great public injury, for which no adequate redress could be obtained in any other way, then such a course as this would be proper, But until such a case could be proved, it would be putting a man on his trial when be was not accused. He now came to that part of the subject which related to the calling in of the military. The facts of the case were these:—When the assembly was dissolved, the sheriff desired that the persons present should disperse. This was not met in a very civil manner. He then called for the police, not in a low inaudible tone, but in a tone of voice which was
molliter manus imponere,912Mr. Ellis,
913 said, that when he voted for the late bills imposing restrictions upon public meetings, he certainly did not expect that the powers given to sheriffs would have been exercised as they had been by the sheriff of Dublin. He
913Sir J. Sebright
 said, that the late acts did not apply to county meetings, which stood entirely on the basis of common law. The only question which the House had to consider was, whether this was the most proper tribunal before which the inquiry could be carried on. If the sheriff had done wrong, what punishment was the House to inflict on him, or had they the same means of examining evidence which were possessed in courts of law? If they were to appoint a committee, this would not prevent individuals who thought themselves aggrieved from seeking their remedies against the sheriff in the ordinary courts of justice. Now, what a strange situation would the House be placed in, if two distinct proceedings took place on the same subject of investigation? If that House passed a resolution of censure or of acquittal, it would not prevent the parties complaining from instituting legal proceedings.Mr. Bathurst
914 in voting against the motion, wished to guard against any possible misconstruction; for he certainly could not express any approbation of the conduct of the sheriff in the introduction of the military. Such an approbation would contradict the principles upon which he had uniformly acted when he held an official situation in Ireland. He had been accused of extreme severity in the measures which he adopted at that time; but he thought it better to put down the sys-
914Mr. Peel,
916 sincerely regretted the occurrence in question, and especially the introduction of military force. The question, however, was, what course it was prudent at present to pursue. He was by no means surprised at the opinions expressed by the hon. and learned gentleman, who had just sat down, because they were strictly consistent with those delivered by him on the Manchester question. The hon. and learned gentleman had, indeed, followed so strictly the course of
916Lord Castlereagh
 was of opinion, that the high sheriff of Dublin had conducted himself with great judgment and propriety.Lord Bective
 was opposed to an inquiry into this subject as it was not strictly speaking, a breach of the privilege of parliament.Mr. W. Wynn
*905904903902 rose, pursuant to notice, to present a petition complaining of a military outrage alleged to have been committed by the high sheriff of Dublin, at a county meeting lately held at Kilmainham. He had, in the first place, to express his regret as well as his surprise—and it could not fail to excite the surprise of the House—that while there were so many able members from that part of the kingdom, the petitioners should have requested him to present their petition. He was sure, however, that in doing so they had been actuated by that generous feeling which was known to be characteristic of their country; that they believed the circumstance of which they
*905904903902Lord John Russell
l.l.s.s.l.l.s.900899d.s.l.sl.s.l.s.l.d.,s.l.s.l.s.l.898l.l.897896 wished to make one observation on what had fallen from his hon. friend with respect to the amount of the excise duties forming any criterion by which to judge of the prosperity of the country. He desired to refer his hon. friend to exactly the same statement made by the chancellor of the exchequer in
l.l.s.s.l.l.s.900899d.s.l.sl.s.l.s.l.d.,s.l.s.l.s.l.898l.l.897896Mr. Ellice
 said, the distress was of a general nature; there was no class of society exempt from it. He rejoiced to see so many petitions presented from all parts of the country, because he hoped that they would force upon ministers the consideration of the subject. Looking at the miserable state of the people, he was, he confessed, astonished to find persons of information and ability, talking of the prosperous state of the country, and urging the amount of the excise duties as a proof thereof.Mr. Curwen
 thought the House was bound not to leave the protection of the right of petitioning to the courts of law. If such outrages as those which had been committed in Dublin were to be treated as mere acts of indiscretion, there would be an end to that guardianship which the House was bound to exercise over the rights and liberties of the people.Mr. J. P. Grant
 contended, that even if the conduct of the sheriff were as illegal as it had been represented, still the subject was not one that ought to be investigated by a court of law.Mr. R. Martin
907906* See New Parl. Hist. vol. 1, p, 1361. said, in seconding the motion as one of the representatives of the county of Dublin, I feel myself called upon to say a few words on the subject of the petition. I was not present when the outrage complained of was committed; but I have no hesitation in saying, from every circumstance which has come to my knowledge, that the petition contains a correct
907906* See New Parl. Hist. vol. 1, p, 1361.Colonel Talbot
 said, he had been misunderstood in his observations on a former occasion on the right of petition. He on that occasion alluded to the year 1680. He never thought that it would fall to his lot to vindicate the conduct of a Russell and a Cavendish, in the part they had taken against such a wretch as Jefferies. It was the denial of the right of petition, seven years after that period, which caused James 2nd to lose his throne; and he hoped that should the right of the people of England be again invaded in a similar manner, the people would have spirit enough to do themselves that justice which had formerly been done under the auspices of a Russell and a Cavendish.Mr. Creevey
 expressed his regret, that Mr. Ellice should have so suddenly brought the House into the discussion of a subject which required to be handled with much caution.Mr. Huskisson
915 said, that the matter of the present motion might be divided into two parts;—the first relating to the conduct of the Irish government in refusing to interfere, after the address presented; the second relating to the line of conduct which, under existing circumstances, it would befit the House of Commons to adopt. With respect to the first question he did not materially differ from the practical conclusion of the right hon. secretary for Ireland, and that of his predecessor. He thought, upon the whole, that the non-interference of the Irish government was fairly accounted for; but one of the reasons assigned for that interference struck him as a little singular. His right hon. friend contended, that it would have been improper for the government of Ireland to have removed the sheriff from his office, even if they knew that he had misconducted himself in it. That might, as a general principle, be true; but if it were true, what should be said of ministers who, without inquiry, and even without hearing removed from his post one of the most illustrious, virtuous and respectable men in England—giving him the first intimation of his dismission, too, in a way which would have been thought harsh from a private master to a menial servant, namely, by a paragraph inserted in a ministerial newspaper? If so much respect was due to the sheriff of Dublin, surely a little respect ought to have been shown to the illustrious individual (earl Fitzwilliam) to whom he had alluded. The House ought to examine into the cause of so much rigour on the one hand and so much lenity on the other: the lenity was shown to a man who cut short a proceeding likely to terminate in strictures upon the government; the rigour was exercised towards one who favoured the expression of public opinion. With respect to the second question, it had been argued that the violation of individual right was not a wrong for the in-
915Sir J. Mackintosh
 said, he had been present at the meeting in question, and thought the conduct of the sheriff indiscreet, but not corrupt. He objected to the interference of the House, because a remedy was open at common law, and because he believed that that remedy was likely to be resorted to.Mr. Shaw
 said, that this was a petition complaining of a gross outrage upon the rights of the people; and if the House refused to interfere, what would be the necessary inference? that the imperial parliament declined to do what the last parliament of Ireland had done. The county of Dublin complained that the right of petitioning had been invaded, and he knew of no way in which that public grievance could be so properly redressed as by an inquiry in the Commons House of Parliament. If it were possible to conceive a case in which the military ought not to have been introduced, this was the case. What freeholder would attend a count meeting, at which he was to be exposed to the violence and outrages of the military, and then to be turned round to his action at law for redress?Sir J. Newport
922 thought that the petition deserved the attention of the House. Although he had searched with the utmost care, he had been unable to find a single case bearing on the question before the House. The absence of any similar exercise of power by a judge, amounted, he apprehended, to a proof of the illegality of the practice; for, according to lord Coke, as usage proved the intendment of the law, so non-usage proved what was not intended by the law. The strongest authority in favour of the existence of such a power was that of judge Holt, who said, that if a defendant was guilty of contempt, the judge might issue a warrant against him, if the contempt was committed out of court, or fine him if it was committed in court. This, however, was only the dictum of a judge, and as such could not be opposed to the law of the land. When judge Jeffries was on the bench, William Penn had been fined forty marks for refusing to take off his hat in court, and the jury had been imprisoned for giving a verdict contrary to the opinion of the bench. But, though Penn had insulted the bench, he was not fined for any expression made use of in his defence, but solely for refusing to pull off his hat; and surely what had been too much for judge Jeffries to do ought to be too much for any judge of the present time. In the 3rd Institute of Coke, p. 142, there was a report of the case of William Bruce, who, though he had grossly insulted the court, had not been fined for his conduct. A verdict having been found against Bruce, he addressed the judge in those words—"Roger! Roger! now thou hast thy will of me," and on being asked what he meant, he added, "what for a
922Mr. Hobhouse
 said, he did not understand that his learned friend had denied the legality of the proceeding of the learned judge; though the hon. seconder had roundly denied it. His learned friend, however, doubted the legality of the power to fine a defendant for contempt. His learned friend could not have been present when the question was fully discussed in the court of King's-bench and when all the judges gave their deliberate opinions upon it. The petition called in question the propriety of the decision of that court. The offence for which he defendant was tried, was not a political, but one of the most disgusting of blasphemous libels. He would read one short passage.The Attorney General
ll said, he should read a very short passage. The defendant in his libel intreated his countrymen to throw from them that book (meaning the Bible), which was full of blasphemy, lies, and uninteresting nonsense. The House must know that it was the practice of persons who were charged with such an offence, to reiterate the libel on their trial, and, indeed, to utter worse blasphemy. In that case, the judge had to determine whether he could suffer such a proceeding. The defendant had come prepared with a long written defence. In that defence, after he had been admonished by the judge, he attacked the whole profession of the law. For this he was not fined, but was checked by the judge; upon which he conducted himself with the greatest insolence, held out his hand in a menacing manner, and said, "If you wish to send me to your dungeon, here is the key." For this he was fined 20llThe Attorney-General
l925 said, that the hon. member had taken an opportunity to charge intemperate conduct on the learned judge and had referred to the proceedings of that learned person on the trial of a member of the House. He would ask, what there was in the conduct of the learned judge on that occasion, which called for such reprehension? As to the merits of the publication which was the subject of that trial, there could be no doubt that it was of a most malignant nature. All the judges of the court of King's-bench, even Mr. Justice Bayley, who differed from his brothers on the point of form, agreed that it was a malicious and malignant libel. But, on the point of form the majority of the judges concurred with Mr. Justice Best. Yet the hon. member for Appleby accused Mr. Justice Best of intemperance. When they talked of intemperance, what was the character of the hon. member who made such a serious charge upon such slight grounds? As to the petition of Davison, it contained an incorrect statement of the proceedings on his trial.
l925The Solicitor General
928 observed, that as no doubt appeared to be entertained upon the legality of the judge's conduct to which the petition referred, and as the court of King's-bench had solemnly adjudged that conduct to be correct, he saw no reason why that House should at all enter into the subject. If a defendant availed himself of the indulgence afforded him of making his own defence to commit fresh crimes, was his attempt to be tolerated of committing still further crimes, in the shape of a petition to that House? It would be quite inconsistent with the sober exercise of the right of petitioning to
928Lord Castlereagh
 explained. If the House permitted the petition to be brought up, it would be an admission that the subject of it was matter fit for the consideration of the House.Lord Castlereagh
 said, it was not to be endured, that a minister of the Crown should declare, that a petition complaining of a grievance should not be brought up. Was it not too much that it should be assumed that the petitions of the people were so immoral, seditious, and blasphemous, that they ought not even to be heard?Mr. Hutchinson
 said, it was true he was a minister of the Crown, but he was also a member of parliament, and he had yet to learn that he was to he precluded from offering any observations to the House, upon any subject before it. If there was to be no discussion allowed upon the question of bringing up a petition, it was unnecessary to have it put to the House from the Chair.Lord Castlereagh
 thought, that a complaint of a decision in the court of King's-bench, was not a fit subject for a petition to that House. He was far from maintaining, that the conduct of a judge might not be so flagitious and unconstitutional as to be a fit subject of parliamentary inquiry. If any member was satisfied that such had been the conduct of the judge in the present case, the proper course would be, either to Jay a charge upon the table by way of impeachment, or to propose an address to the Crown for his removal. If the House sanctioned the present application, where would they draw the line?Mr. Wynn
 would put it to the noble lord, whether the present was the time when they should discourage the petitions of the people. In the present state of the public feeling he would open the doors of the House as much as possible to their petitions.Mr. Bernal
 said, that the plain question before the House was, whether this petition should be rejected unheard, and unread? If the language of a petition was decorous and respectful, it was a matter of course that it should be read; if afterwards it appeared to be inadmissible, it was in the discretion of the House to receive or reject it.Sir R. Fergusson
932 said, that what he understood his noble friend to mean was, that he was desirous of admonishing the people not to present petitions upon subjects
932Sir C. Long
 said, that the only petitions which were received as a matter of course in that House, were election petitions. All other petitions were liable to be received or rejected as that House thought fit, and it would be found, upon reference to the Journals, that the House, had exercised that discretion in a variety of instances. Indecorous language was a good ground of rejection, and in this case the language was admitted not only to be indecorous, but libellous. It contained an imputation upon a learned judge which was believed to be false by the learned gentleman who presented it.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that at a moment when economy was so indispensable, it ought to be as rigidly pursued in the colonial establishments as in any others. He corroborated the statements of his hon. friend, and lamented that matters of such moment should be discussed in so thin a House.Colonel Davies
 said, that the House ought to be obliged to the hon. gentleman who brought forward this question because it enabled his right hon. friend to justify and defend the measures of sir T. Maitland. As the information sought for would be granted, he suggested to the hon. member, without meaning to discourage his praise-worthy industry in matters of public economy, the propriety of abstaining from attack until he had first got his information. Than sir T. Maitland there could not be a more honourable man: he had been a blunt soldier, before he became a statesman; and so far from being a person who would tolerate, there was not in existence a greater enemy to jobbing than that gallant officer.Lord Castlereagh
923 believed it was contrary to order to read any statement from
923Lord John Russell
 said, that having known the learned judge, and enjoyed his friendship for the last forty years, he could not sit still and listen to the language of the last speaker. He requested to know whether such language was not disorderly.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 thought that the petition ought to be rejected. The learned gentleman had said, that be was not prepared to propose any ulterior step. Besides the petition contained an imputation against a learned judge which was false upon the face of it. Though he did not stand up in that House as the advocate of the learned judge, and it would be unbecoming in him to assume that character yet he could not help regretting that the name of that venerable person had been brought before the House, in a manner so much to be deprecated.Mr. G. Bankes
929 said, that this was not to be regarded as a mere question of legality, but as an appeal to that House upon its great constitutional privilege, according to which, it was competent and imperatively bound to superintend the proceedings of the judges, and to watch with jealousy the manner in which justice was administered. It was known, indeed, from history, that judges had often acted wrong,
929Mr. Bright
937palazzoll936 said, that it had formerly been the practice to call for papers first, and to discuss them afterwards if granted; or if they were refused, to show from the best sources that could be applied to, that there existed grounds for demanding them. The hon. gentleman had reversed that order; and, even when there existed every disposition to grant him the documents required; proceeded on imperfect or erroneous statements, when by waiting a little longer he might have obtained official and certain information as the basis of his reasoning. He proceeded to state facts in a motion for papers without wailing to see whether the papers might not falsify his facts. To this novel mode of proceeding he must strongly object; for whatever the hon. gentleman might say about his unwillingness to cast imputations, the effect of his speech was, to cast the greatest imputations when he accused the lord-high-commissioner of facts which showed that he pampered his vanity and increased his patronage, to the oppression of the inhabitants, and the detriment of the public service. The right hon. gentleman then proceeded to answer the different statements of Mr. Hume's speech; and contended, that so far as they impeached the character of the lord-high-commissioner, they were unfounded. He admitted a great increase of revenue and expenditure; but the increased revenue arose from a better system of collecting the taxes, and not from the imposition of new burdens. The revenue now appeared greater, because it was not diverted into the private channels in which it formerly flowed but
937palazzoll936Mr. Goulburn
 trusted, that whenever a judge was found corrupt enough to pervert the laws, there would never be wanting bold and independent men in that House, who would bring their conduct before parliament. He rejoiced that the subject had been brought before the House; he was before disposed to think not very favourably of the conduct of the learned judge, but this discussion had satisfied him that his conduct had been perfectly correct. It was the right pf the people to complain to that House of the conduct of courts of justice. If, when the petition should be read, it should be found to impute to the learned judge, a desire to obtain a conviction, then he would concur in rejecting it. When the noble lord talked of reading a lesson to the people of England, not to come to that House with their complaints, did he consider the consequences of the people being compelled to look for redress by other means at the expense of the constitution? There was a point—he would not say where—but there was a point, at which resistance was a virtue and a right; and if the petition were refused to be brought up, the moment at which we should arrive at that point would be accelerated.Mr. Curwen
 said, that it was too much for any minister to talk of admonishing the people upon the exercise of their inalienable and most sacred right, or that the time of the House was misapplied in discussing their petitions. As to the petition under discussion, he could not decline voting for its reception, upon the ground that it referred to the conduct of a judge; feeling, as he did, that it was competent to that House to take cognizance of the conduct of any judge, however high his character.Mr. J. P. Grant
926 declared himself quite satisfied with the explanation which had been given as to the conduct of the learned judge in the case under discussion. There could be no doubt as to the power of a judge to punish for contempt; for without such a power it would be impossible for a judge to preserve order in court, or to administer justice. If a defendant, under the pretence of pleading his cause, thought proper to indulge in blasphemous, or seditious language, how was the judge to silence him? The judge could not be required to use physical force, for the purpose of restraining such an offender; and if he were to order him out of the court while the trial went on
926Mr. Lockhart
935lllll934 rose, pursuant to notice, to bring under the consideration of the House several particulars relative to the state and revenue of the Ionian Islands. Whilst the attention of parliament was so justly called to the means of effecting a reduction of our public expenditure, he was persuaded that the colonial department was that in which an immediate saving might be most easily made. This he should take an opportunity of proving most satisfactorily in the course of the session, but he should confine himself that night to a few circumstances relative to the Ionian Islands. They could not be considered in every point of view as colonies, but as a state in a great measure dependent upon us. We, in fact, had the direction of their affairs, and had bound ourselves to make good the deficiencies of their revenue; or, in other words, to pay whatever excess of expenditure might arise, or be created, by ourselves. The hon. member here took a rapid review of the affairs of these islands since the treaty of Paris, by which their independence was acknowledged. Their revenue had originally been adequate to all the charges upon it, and their government was conducted upon the principles of a regular and systematic economy. But the presence of a British force, and the influence of the British go-
935lllll934Mr. Hume
924 was of opinion, that the
924Mr. Creevey
921l920v919lll said, he held in his hand a Petition on a subject highly important to the due administration of justice. The petition was from Thomas Davison, formerly of Duke-street, West Smithfield, but now a prisoner confined in Oakhampton gaol. The petitioner complained of having been fined whilst making his defence by Mr. Justice Best, before whom he was tried in October last, at Guildhall. The petitioner was tried for a blasphemous libel, and in the course of his defence he was fined three times by the learned judge. The first was a fine of 20921l920v919lllMr. Denman
933 said, he had never stated that the petition contained a libel on the learned judge; he had said, indeed, that it contained a charge against him, which, knowing the learned judge as he did, he did not believe to be true; but, if the man believed the charge to be true, he had a right to state it in his own language, and if parliament was a part of the constitution he had a right to lay his grievances before that House, and if necessary, have an opportunity of proving them. If no charge was to be entertained by that House, because, if false, it might be libellous, there was an end to the doctrine of impeachment; for how would it be possible to impeach, if no charge could be made, which, in the event of its being disproved might turn out to be libellous? An hon. gentleman thought that no petition ought to be received unless some specific measure were founded upon it;
933Mr. Denman
 —I did not say it was libellous.Mr. Denman.
931 maintained, that if the petition contained this charge, it was a libel, and it ought not to be received. It had been said that if this petition was not received, the House would be shutting its doors against the petitions of the people; but he contended, that the rejection of
931Mr. Huskisson
 said, that the general practice on presenting petitions was, to state their nature and object, in order to let the House see whether they were such as ought to be received. The reading of the petition would inform the House of the language; but the matter should be stated before it was brought up, and the House would decide on that matter. He understood that the present petition contained a charge against one of the judges, that the petitioner had been illegally fined by him, and that the judge having thus gained his end of preventing his defence, had remitted the fine. Now this was a gross charge; and the question was whether they would receive a petition which was admitted to contain a libel.Mr. Huskisson
 said, he had not conceived at the moment that it was his duty to interfere, whatever the opinion of the House might be as to the decorum of the hon. member's observations. It had appeared to him, that the the hon. member was making reference to the motives under which the learned judge had decided, which was the gist and gravamen of the petition. He still considered, that the hon. member was not out of order.The Speaker
 said, it was true, that no person, without leave of the House, could read from a printed paper though this rule had not been strictly insisted upon.The Speaker
nolumus leges Angliœ mutari? objected to this petition as being too inflammatory; but he begged it to be understood, that he was a decided advocate for the right of petitioning upon proper subjects and in adequately strong language; and what language could be stronger than nolumus leges Angliœ mutari?Sir F. Blake
927 expressed his regret that he was not present when the petition was read, as he was therefore unable to pronounce any opinion upon its merits. But, if it disputed the power of a court of law to punish for contempt, he certainly could not concur with the petitioner; for there could be no doubt of the existence of such power. He was not present at the trial referred to by the petitioner, and therefore he could give no decided opinion upon it, but could have no doubt that the judge would exercise a sound discretion in preventing a defendant or any other person in court from violating the rules established for the better administra-of justice, or from controverting every position of the law and the gospel. If, indeed, the judge did not possess such a power, a defendant might resort to any excess of irregularity; for instance, he might place himself in such a position towards the jury as would be grossly indelicate and indecent, under the pretence that he could only defend himself in such a position; and surely in such a case the judge should have the power of controlling him. If, then the judge ought to have the power of preventing personal indecency, why not that also of prohibiting the moral and religious indecency of controverting every position of the law and the gospel. With regard to what had been observed as to the deference due to the judges, no man more strongly felt that deference than himself; but that feeling should not restrain him from questioning the conduct of any one or more of the judges, where that conduct appeared to him to be erroneous. He should, however, always express his dissent from such high authority with great diffidence; but that diffidence could not restrain him from making a few remarks upon a recent case, where a fine was imposed upon a journalist for publishing certain trials contrary to the order of the judges. This was, in his opinion, carrying the doctrine of contempt much too far. The publication of a trial in any British court with fidelity was certainly no offence, and therefore could not legally be construed into contempt; yet in the case to which he alluded, the journalist was fined for publishing a trial, without a charge of any
927Mr. Scarlett
 said, it had been urged that the administration of justice was not a fit subject for the control of that House, for what purpose, then, was the committee of justice appointed every session? He trusted that whatever might be the opinion of the House as to its admissibility when they heard the petition read, no objection would be made to it being brought in.Sir J Newport
930 expressed a wish to have the doors of that House thrown wide
930Lord Althorp
l940l observed, that in other courts of Scotland a practice had obtained of receiving great fees for suitors; for instance, it was common for a suitor to pay 200l940lThe Lord-Advocate
943ll942bona fide941 said, that he thought he should best discharge his duty by confining himself to the immediate point to which the resolution with which he proposed to conclude would refer, without entering at all into the more important question as to our agricultural distress. With respect to the averages, as taken heretofore, it was known that a great deal of intricacy and confusion prevailed upon the subject of the laws relating to those averages. The laws alluded to were the acts of the 31st, 33d, 44th, and 45th of his late majesty. As to the latter, they had for some time been repealed in practical operation. Then with regard to the acts of 1791 and 1793, it was rather difficult, upon reference to the act of 1791, to ascertain what the state of the law really was. If the committee should agree to the resolution which he had to submit, it was his intention to propose a bill for embodying all the useful provisions of the existing law upon this subject. The
943ll942bona fide941Mr. Robinson
 said, he had looked upon the averages as settled by the late acts. The bill ought to be viewed with jealousy; and he would therefore watch it in every stage.Mr. Calcraft
944 could not but express his regret that the right hon. gentleman had brought forward the subject at this particular period. It was calculated to cre-
944Mr. Baring
 disapproved of joining the average amount of Irish corn to that of this country, because the Irish corn was of an inferior quality to the English.Mr. F. Lewis
 maintained that the court did not act as counsel for prisoners, but remained neutral. He referred to the case of Bellingham, where the court had refused to allow delay for the arrival of witnesses to prove insanity.Mr. Martin
, of Galway, said, that the motion he had to make was a proposition so self-evident, that he had equal difficulty in finding arguments in its favour and against it: it was so reasonable that merely to mention it was sufficient to procure it the strongest support. It was "for leave to bring in a bill to permit persons charged with capital crimes, to make their defence by counsel." The reverse was, in his view, so utterly inconsistent with the benignity of our criminal code; it was so completely unjust to refuse to a prisoner the advantage enjoyed by the Crown, that he would not attempt to argue it. Mr. Justice Blackstone had called it one of the anomalies of the English law, for which he was unable to account. He should move for leave to bring in the bill.Mr. Martin
945 conceived that the effect of the measure would be to raise the importation price. An hon. member had spoken of the injury which an accumulation of foreign corn accasioned in the English market. That might be so; but the only remedy for this evil was, for this country to lower the prices of corn nearly to the standard of the prices of the continent. The only way to keep out foreign corn, was by putting high duties upon the importation of it. Now, suppose a year of scarcity had arrived, and that a high duty had been placed on the importation of foreign corn, would any minister at such a time of distress, attempt to enforce that duty—and shut out relief from a starving people? Impossible; and, therefore, the ports would be left open and free, and the immense importation which the hon. gentleman looked upon
945Mr. Ricardo
 said, that the measure would, in his opinion, protect those who were now subjected to fraud.Mr. H. Sumner
 said, that the House was not aware of the injury which the country suffered by the frauds which had been practised in the mode of taking averages. He was sure that, within a very limited period, the country had lost at least a million by the frauds which had been committed. Large quantities of corn were imported from Denmark into the Isle of man, and from thence shipped off to England. The greatest injury resulted to the English farmer from the introduction of foreign grain.Mr. Curwen
 said, that if the public looked for any relief from the measure they would certainly be disappointed.Mr. Irving
 could not see that any alteration in the mode of taking the averages would at all relieve the agricultural distress. The high state of the taxation, at a time when the value of the land was so depreciated, was the great cause of the evil. That evil was, no doubt, greatly increased by the measure which a right hon. member (Mr. Peel) had introduced into that House. If the system which that measure sought to establish was not departed from, the consequence must be absolute ruin and convulsion.Mr. Lockhart
 said, that there were many solid objections to the measure, and dwelt particularly on the delays that might result in the administration of justice from a change of the existing system. At present, the court was counsel for the prisoner, and he was not aware that within the last century any disadvantage had resulted from the exclusion of prisoners accused of capital crimes from the use of counsel.Mr. Lockhart
 contended, that the case of Bellingham was directly against the hon. gentleman. Counsel had there, as in all similar instances, been allowed to make and support the application for delay. He hoped the House would make no alteration in the most humane system of jurisprudence that ever existed in any country of the world. The subject of the motion had engaged the attention of the bar. It was unquestionably one that might give rise to a diversity of opinion. But the result of the opinions which he had been able to collect, was, that the purposes of justice were best attained under the present system. There was seldom or never a case in which the judge did not act as counsel for the prisoner.Mr. Nolan
 said, that from what had fallen from the learned lord, he would not persist in his motion, although he felt that no compensation ought to be granted in this case,Mr. Creevey
llll said, he should move as an amendment, that it be read a second time this day six months. The resolution stated, "that it is expedient that compensation be made to the clerks of the Admiralty courts of Scotland for any loss they may sustain by any regulations that may be made in the said court." Such a proposition as this was what he conceived the House would never agree to. There were bills before the House by which fees in other courts were taken away and salaries given; but they differed materially from the abstract declaration of the present resolution—that compensation should be given if they happened to lose their fees. The only foundation for this measure was, the fourth report of the parliamentary commission of 1814. The only thing that was said in that report was this, that the chief clerk of the Admiralty judge of Scotland had emoluments amounting to 1,200llllMr. Creevey
947l rose to move for leave to bring in a bill for the better regulation of the Turnpike Trusts in the vicinity of the metropolis. It was well known that the roads about London were the worst regulated in the kingdom; and though the dues levied on the in amounted to nearly 200,000947lMr. D. Gilbert
 rose to present a Petition from the merchants of London against the renewal of the charter of the West India Dock Company. The hon. gentleman addressed the House upon the impolicy as well as injustice of continuing, in an enlightened age like this, such monopolies, which were at once injurious to commerce and to the revenue of the country. He entered into a detail of the many inconveniences and evil consequences to trade generally, and to the trade of London in particular, resulting from the very high rates charged by this company.Mr Marryat
 animadverted on the abuses which crept into establishments of this nature, through the inattention of the legislature to the precise enactments which they sanctioned. By a clause introduced into the act for the renewal of the East India Company's charter, private traders were admitted into the East India Docks.Mr. F. Lewis
 said, it was undoubtedly the duty of the House to watch with peculiar vigilance the tendency of any measure which involved private interests as well as the great commercial interests of the country. There were other docks which had charters, having a longer period to run than the West India; it would be inexpedient, therefore, to make any declaration of the views of government as to the renewal of the charter of this company, until the whole question, as it respected those several charters, had been taken into consideration.Mr. Robinson
l said, the question was one which was intimately connected with the economy of trade. It was a fact, that the establishment of these dock companies, though it was at first a sort of experiment, had proved of the greatest public utility. When they were first established, it was impossible to know how far the rates would or would not afford a sufficient compensation for the capital employed; but now that it had been ascertained that they had greatly exceeded such a compensation, it was an important question for parliament to determine, whether the charters should be renewed. The charter was granted to the West India company, with a restriction that they were never to divide more than 10 per cent. The obvious inference was, that if the rates exceeded such a sum as would afford a dividend of 10 per cent, they were bound to reduce them. They had, however, done no such thing. Instead of reducing the rates, they had, accumulated a sum of no less than 500,000lMr. Baring
l said, he had heard that 500,000lMr. Gordon
 assured the hon. member, that no sum had been offered to be placed at the disposal of government.Mr. Robinson
 expressed his jealousy of any measure which should take the management of the roads out of the hands of those who had local knowledge. The roads about London were not uniformly bad, the Uxbridge road for instance, was a very good one.Mr. Curwen
 observed, that there never appeared to be much friendship in trade. Each merchant sought his own interest, monopoly was the order of the day amongst them, and beggar my neighbour the object.Sir Isaac Coffin
 said, that a gallant officer had asked on a former night, whether their was an English accredited agent present at the proceedings which terminated in the military execution of Murat? He was now enabled to give the gallant officer an answer. He had referred to the dispatch of sir W. A'Court, in which he found it stated, that after Murat had been taken, with thirty of his followers, by the peasantry, for there were no troops, he was tried by his own officers, condemned by his own laws, which were yet in force, and suffered the punishment which, by a proclamation found upon him, he had denounced against the adherents of king Ferdinand. No English agent could have been present.Lord Castlereagh
 said, that the rumour was utterly destitute of every colour of foundation.Lord Castlereagh
 presented a Petition from the Roman Catholics of Limerick, praying to be admitted to the full enjoyment of the privileges of the British constitution. The hon. gentleman begged to offer his testimony to the loyalty and respectability of the petitioners, and expressed an earnest hope that the result of that night's debate would determine that a large portion of the people of Ireland should no longer be excluded from participating in the blessings of the constitution.Mr. Fitzgibbon
 supported the prayer of the petition, conceiving it to be founded on justice. No paltry question of expediency, if expediency could ever be separated from justice, ought to induce them to exclude from the full enjoyment of all constitutional rights, men who had proved by their patience under severe privations, how well they deserved them. He hoped the House would consent to go into a committee on the Catholic claims. If securities were wanted to guard the Protestant church from danger, he should vote for them. But he was satisfied that the best security the church of England could receive, would be afforded by an act of conciliation and generosity towards the Roman Catholics.Mr. S. Rice
in limine950 presented a Petition from Bruton, against the Catholic claims. The petitioners looked with great anxiety to the recurrence of this question, but relied on the wisdom of that House, if the subject should go to a committee, to provide suitable securities for the Protestant interest. In this feeling he agreed with the petitioners. He should be inclined to consider the appointment of a committee only a delusion; for he could not see how any thing could be done that would relieve the Catholics, and at the same time give security to the Protestant establishments. It was from this feeling
in limine950Sir T. Lethbridge
 said, that so far was he from thinking that by conceding what was prayed for they would do any thing to undermine the constitution, that he was convinced the measure in question would prove one of its firmest supports.Mr. Grenfell
 trusted, that the House would no longer deny the privilege of exercising the rights afforded by the constitution, to a numerous class of the people, merely because they did not hold the same religious opinions as themselves.Lord Glenorchy
961 said, he held in his hand a Petition signed by some thousands of Roman Catholics in Ireland. From the means he possessed of knowing the people of that country and the opinions entertained by them, he could say that the petition contained the sentiments of the great body of the Roman Catholics of Ireland. A similar petition had been presented to that House the year before last. On that occasion the prayers of the petitioners had come forward to that House with all the eloquence, with all the experience, with all the authority of the late Mr. Grattan. In now undertaking the duty devolved on him, he felt his heart melted with the public sorrow and private regret with which he had followed to his grave that great man, by whose confidence he had been honoured, by whose wisdom he had been enlightened, by whose example he had been guided. After the unrivalled eloquence with which he had been lamented in that House, and the distinguished honours with which the justice and liberality of Englishmen had accompanied his remains to the tomb—for at his death, as during his life, he had been the bond of union between the two countries—after these tributes to his virtues, he would not disturb the solemnity of his obsequies by his feeble praise and unavailing sorrow. Yet be could not avoid to mention his name when presenting this petition. The subject was one on which his departed friend had deeply meditated; it had taken early and entire possession of his mind, and held that possession to the last hour of his life; he would have willingly laid down his life in advocating the rights and liberties which he believed to be due to the Roman Catholic subjects of the king, and beneficial to the whole empire. It had been his deliberate conviction, that there could be no sympathy of feeling between the two countries, until this question should be set at rest. He had always been alive to the desire of fame, and showed in the various actions of his life, that love of the approbation and esteem of the wise which clung to every aspiration of a good man, while on earth. But never man had treated with more absolute disdain the hollow and faithless popularity which is obtained by
961Mr. Plunkett
"That this House do resolve itself into a committee of the whole House, to consider the state of the laws by which oaths or declarations are required to be taken or made as qualifications for the enjoyment of offices, or for the exercise of civil functions, so far as the same affect his majesty's Roman Catholic subjects; and whether it would be expedient, in any and what manner, to alter or modify the same, and subject to what provisions or regulations."988987986985nati natorum et qui nascentur ab illis,"984983982981980979978977976975jus ho-norumjus petitionisjus suffragisjus civitatisnil ultra;974973972971970969968967966965964963962 then rose. He said, that it now remained for him to discharge his duty, by bringing under the consideration of the House the subject of the petitions which the House had just heard, and on behalf of the Protestants and Roman Catholics of Ireland, to call the attention of the House to the relative state of both; a state which, on the one hand, justified an imputation of harshness and oppression, and, on the other, excited a feeling of that injustice and oppression, which, if it were suffered to continue, must in its consequences prove equally dangerous to the party which oppressed, and to the party which suffered. His object was, to attain an end of public good by doing an act of public justice. It was such an act of justice, as, he was persuaded, would lay the foundation of ultimate concord, for concord was the necessary consequence of justice. He believed it would be received with the warmest feelings of gratitude and satisfaction, though this was in his judgment an inferior and secondary consideration. To suppose that he brought forward this question, merely as a palliative to allay temporary discontents, and to get rid of accidental ill-humours, would be not only greatly to undervalue the measure, but wholly to misconceive its bearing. The Roman Catholics of Ireland had nobly disentitled themselves to the supposition of its being a measure to allay discontent. Determined as they were to persevere in their efforts to obtain redress of grievances and restoration of rights, they were equally determined never to seek them but as the result of wisdom and justice in the legislature, in which they knew that they could not be ultimately disappointed. That there did exist among them an eager desire for immediate redress, and instant restoration to the freedom which their fellow-subjects possessed, he should be ashamed to deny. That there was felt by them that sickness
"That this House do resolve itself into a committee of the whole House, to consider the state of the laws by which oaths or declarations are required to be taken or made as qualifications for the enjoyment of offices, or for the exercise of civil functions, so far as the same affect his majesty's Roman Catholic subjects; and whether it would be expedient, in any and what manner, to alter or modify the same, and subject to what provisions or regulations."988987986985nati natorum et qui nascentur ab illis,"984983982981980979978977976975jus ho-norumjus petitionisjus suffragisjus civitatisnil ultra;974973972971970969968967966965964963962Mr. Plunkett
10041003100210011000999998997996now995994993992991990necessitudo sortis989 said, that nothing but the mode of argument pursued by the right hon. member, and the direct personal interest which he took in a mode of attack so novel and unusual, induced him to rise at that early period of the debate. He was aware that he should justly incur the charge of presumption by following the right hon. member under other circumstances, but the necessity of defending himself on an occasion when he was so directly assailed, would be his apology to the House. He knew well, that under any circumstances, his adversary would be an overpowering antagonist, but under the present, when he replied to a speech which he (Mr. Peel) had made four years ago, and which he, having the power of tearing it to pieces then, by that extraordinary faculty of reasoning which he possessed, chose to leave unanswered until that night, when, besides his great talents, he had every other advantage, the difficulty was beyond calculation increased; but whatever the disadvantages might be he was resolved to attempt a reply to the, right hon. gentleman, who had ushered in his arguments by reference to the opinions of so humble an individual as himself. In attempting to follow him, he would first allude to that subject with I which the right hon. gentleman, had pre faced his powerful speech, when he paid that feeling and eloquent tribute to the memory of the departed senator under whose auspices this question had been first brought before the English parliament. He felt it his duty to state, that all which that eulogium said of the late Mr. Grattan, had his full and heartfelt concurrence. There was not a word of it to which he did not fully subscribe. It might seem presumption in him to follow the orator who had so well characterised departed worth, and arrogate to himself the right of praising so great a man.
10041003100210011000999998997996now995994993992991990necessitudo sortis989Mr. Peel
 said, he could not but consider any law in the nature of exclusion, directed against so valuable a body of men as the Catholics of England and Ireland, to be a most intolerable grievance. In England, the Catholics were not in sufficient numbers to be dangerous, while their steady loyalty and patient obedience under the hardships to which they had been subjected gave a pledge for their good conduct when those hardships should be at an end. If the Catholics of Ireland were more numerous, the political arrangements of that country called still more loudly for the change; for no kingdom could be equitably ruled under laws which, of themselves, drew a line between the governors and the governed. Admitting, for the sake of argument, that disaffection to the government prevailed, he would ask, was the present system calculated to diminish it?Lord Bury
 apprehended it to be a fixed rule of the House, that a member who seconded a motion without addressing the House, could not afterwards speak in the debate.Mr. Wynn
1025"Non ego, nee Teucris Italos parere jubebo, Nee mihiregna peto: paribus se legibus amba Invictæ gentes æterna in fœdera mittant.102410231022 said, he would now trouble the House with the few observations which he had to make, because, from the advanced stage of the night, he might otherwise be precluded from delivering his sentiments on this important question; the delivering of which, in the situation in which he stood with regard to Ireland, he esteemed a solemn and imperative duty. He had listened with the utmost attention and the greatest delight to the eloquence with which the motion had been introduced—an eloquence which, while it called to the support of the policy which it recommended the names of the illustrious statesmen and great geniuses of former times, evinced the possession of a high portion of kindred talent. He had, indeed, heard the speech of the right hon. and learned gentleman with wonder and admiration, esteeming it worthy of the cause which it defended—of the principles which it advocated—and worthy of the petitioners whose claims it stated and enforced. He presumed to think that their cause had made some progress, not only from the powerful eloquence and convincing reasoning of the right hon. and learned mover, but from the observations of his right hon. friend, who had spoken on the question as became the frankness and candour of his just and manly mind. His right hon. friend had, however, argued
1025"Non ego, nee Teucris Italos parere jubebo, Nee mihiregna peto: paribus se legibus amba Invictæ gentes æterna in fœdera mittant.102410231022Mr. Charles Grant
 proceeded, amidst very general cries of question! to oppose the motion, but was altogether inaudible.Mr. Bankes
 said, that he felt no inclination to persevere against the sense of the House.Mr. Bankes
"pro patria"1026 rose merely to state a fact connected with the present question. The circumstance to which he wished to draw the attention of the House was, the insertion in the Gazette of an address, purporting to come from an association of Orange-men in Ireland. He J understood that from among the addresses presented to his majesty, a selection was made for publication in the Gazette by the minister whose duty it was; and he was bound to say, in justice to ministers, that the individual who selected that address must have done so without the sanction of his colleagues, as it was nothing less than an insult to the sovereign. It was not perhaps generally known, that this class of individuals had been pronounced by the judges of the
"pro patria"1026Mr. Maurice Fitzgerald
1030102910281027 could not suffer the question to go to a vote, without troubling the House with a few observations. The present was a subject on which he had frequently expressed his sentiments; but it was one which he never approached without great pain, because it compelled him to differ from those friends with whom he usually agreed on other political and national questions. Another circumstance that gave him pain was, that from what had passed he saw no great prospect of a more favourable issue to the question at the present moment than had formerly attended it; but still he conceived it to be his duty to express himself candidly and without reserve. He had often wondered that the extent of the question now remaining for discussion had so much importance attached to it. He could
1030102910281027Lord Castlereagh
l, of Galway, begged to oppose to the theory of the right hon. member for Oxford something that flowed on his mind from experience. Instances as likely to excite the Catholics against the Protestants, had occurred, as any that might be expected to rouse the Protestants against the Catholics; but the result had been satisfactory. The Derry Journal being prosecuted by the Catholics for a libel, a Catholic jury had given a verdict against a Catholic priest, and when Mr. O'Gorman brought an action against the Dublin Evening Post for calling him "a dishonourable blockhead," what did the jury tell him? Why they told him, that he was entitled to sixpence damages. This served to prove, that Catholics were bound by their oaths, and ready to perform their duty. He should certainly vote for going into the committee. If they wished to withdraw all the benefits that had been conferred on the Catholics, they might consistently negative the present motion; but having paid 999lMr. Martin
in limine1014 was loudly called for. He said, that the motion was for a committee to inquire into the truth of the allegations contained in the petitions of five millions of people, who paid the taxes, who supported the establishment, who had defended the country in times of danger, and who were nevertheless debarred the enjoyment of the constitution.
in limine1014Mr. Denis Browne
 then presented himself.Mr. Denis Browne
 seconded the motion.Mr. Denis Browne
1021102010191018101710161015, of Londonderry, said, it was with great reluctance that he obtruded himself upon the attention of the House, being conscious of his inability to offer any observation which had the charm of novelty. Before he proceeded upon the discussion of the question, he wished to guard himself against the consequences of any hasty or indiscreet expression. It was far from his wish to encrease the animosities which had already been engendered; he would much rather live with his Catholic countrymen, many of whom he loved and honoured, as a friend and a neighbour, than be regarded with an eye of suspicion. In private matters he had never made any distinction between a Catholic and Protestant, but in public matters there was much to complain of, and he should express his opinion with boldness, but without bigotry, and resist their claims with firmness, but without hostility. Prom the contents of the petition which the right hon. gentleman had presented, and from the speech of that right hon. gentleman, a person unacquainted with Ireland might be induced to suppose that the Catholics were in the lowest state of political and even personal degradation. No argument at all calculated to excite the feelings had been spared to win over the reluctant and hesitating, to what they termed the cause of liberality and justice. When their advocates assumed the pathetic tone, we were told that they were aliens in their native soil, that the penal code obstructed them in every situation of life, that it damped the industry of the peasant, chilled the ingenuity of the mechanic, and blasted the ambition of the nobility and gentry—that they enjoyed their property by sufferance and cultivated their religion as a boon. These were the arguments applied to the feelings. They had often been successful; and if they failed re-
1021102010191018101710161015Mr. Dawson
960 said, there was one circumstance connected with the first signatures to this petition which, he was quite sure, would speak to the feelings of the House. There were now but four of the baronies remaining, the holders of which signed Magna Charta. The rest were
960Lord Nugent
959958957in foro conscientiœ,956955954953ex vi termini,952 said:—I rise to present a Petition from upwards of 8,000 of the Roman Catholics of Great Britain, piling for admission to certain civil privileges, from which they are now by law excluded. The petition, Sir, is signed by seven peers, sixteen baronets, and seven bishops, besides a very considerable body of their clergy, as well as laity. And if I permit myself to look forward with the sincerest and most sanguine hope to the success of its prayer, that hope is not founded upon an expectation on my part of any very extensive change in the opinions on this subject, of this House or of the country;—but it is founded upon the increased and increasing claims of the petitioners themselves upon your favourable consideration:—it is founded upon their uniform and exemplary good conduct;—upon the tone and temper of this petition;—but, above all, upon one new and most important declaration;—a declaration, not new in principle, but now for the first time thus explicitly made, which I trust the House will feel entirely removes the one great obstacle, which has hitherto presented itself to the admission of these petitioners to a community of privileges with their fellow-subjects—The House is aware, that the oath of supremacy, in the renunciation it contains of the spiritual power of the pope, now remains the one, and I may almost say the only one, great practical difficulty in their way. The declarations of the thirtieth of Charles 2nd, against the doctrine of transubstantiation and the invocation of saints, are now, I believe on all hands, allowed to be justifiable only as tests subsidiary to the declaration contained in the oath of supremacy. On the oath of supremacy, therefore, I conceive, now hinges the whole of that long-contested question of foreign influence, and of what has been called divided allegiance: and on this subject I should wrong these petitioners if I presumed to state their opinions in any terms but those in which they have themselves so admirably described them. They state in their petition, that "they have been accused of giving to a foreign potentate part of that allegiance, which is due to their rightful
959958957in foro conscientiœ,956955954953ex vi termini,952Lord Nugent
sub silentioin liminein liminein limine, when an hon. baronet called on the House to oppose the claims of the Catholics sub silentioin liminein liminein limineMr. Warre
951ultimatum objected to the foul calumnies urged against the Catholics in one petition which had been laid before the House. It was stated that the prayer of the Catholics ought not to be attended to now, because the concessions formerly made were given as their 951ultimatumMr. Barham
 said, he merely rose to make his acknowledgments to the right hon. secretary for Ireland, for his excellent and manly speech in behalf of his suffering country.Mr. Luke White
 said, that upon a question of such vital importance, he should consider it right to move an adjournment, if any member was prevented from delivering his opinions.Mr. Hart Davis
 observed, that unquestionably the strict rule of the House was such as had just been laid down; but it was sometimes the custom of the House to allow, as a matter of courtesy, a gentleman who had seconded a motion to speak at a future period.The Speaker
 said, he had had the honour of accompanying the lord may or of Dublin. He should oppose the present motion, because former concessions to the Catholics had failed to produce conciliation.Sir G. Hill
101310121011101010091008100710061005 said, that if the right hon. gentleman who had just sat down felt he had reason to allude to the disadvantages he laboured under in having to follow so powerful a speech as that of the
101310121011101010091008100710061005Sir James Mackintosh
 said, the noble load's explanation was satisfactory as far as it went; but it would be remembered, that what he had asked was, not whether a British agent was present in the military commission, but in that council at Naples, the result of which was the handing over of the late king of Naples to a military trial?Sir R. Wilson
lll1036lllll1035 rose to submit the motion of which he had given notice relative to the Education of the lower Orders in Ireland. The subject of education in general had already been so largely canvassed, and, as far as it related to England, had been so ably illustrated by his hon. and learned friend (Mr. Brougham), that it would be presumptuous in him to do any more on the present occasion than allude
lll1036lllll1035Mr. M. Fitzgerald
1037 observed, that the greatest credit was due to the labours of those commissioners, of the results of whose exertions the right hon. gentleman spoke so
1037Mr. C. Grant
10391038 hoped it was not necessary to offer any arguments at the present day to shew that the advantages to be derived from the principles of general education more than counterbalanced the disadvantages. Should any one, however, doubt it, it would be satisfactory to its advocates to find, on reference to the Statute books, that our forefathers had recognised the principle. By a statute of Henry 8th it was enacted, that parochial schools should be established in Ireland for the instruction of the Irish youth generally. The preamble of that act set forth the necessity of such establishments, as calculated to bring a barbarous people into a coincidence of language and manners with a people who were civilized. He did not quarrel with the terms of the act, but he greatly regretted that its spirit and its enactments were not more strictly observed. By that act it was enjoined, that every clergyman who possessed a benefice in Ireland, should teach or cause to be taught, a school in this parish, and that the youth of the place should be instructed in the English language. For an omission of this duty, the act imposed a fine for the first offence; a large fine for the second; and for the third, the loss of his benefice. It was also enacted that every clergyman on his appointment to a benefice should take an oath to the following effect:—"I swear that I will teach, or cause to be taught, the English language, in a school in my parish." Now, he was sorry to find, that, notwithstanding the strictness of the act and the solemn pledge of an oath, which every clergyman was obliged to take at this day, so little attention seemed to be paid to this subject. There were 1,125 benefices in Ireland, out of which 736 only, had made returns to the orders of the committee in 1810, and of which 549 only had scholars in conformity with the regulations of the statute. Now, it was a fair presumption that those
10391038Mr. Spring Rice
 bore testimony to the disposition of the Catholics to support schools which were conducted on a liberal system.Mr. W. Courtenay
 though in general an enemy to aids of the nature which this subject was likely to call for, from the liberality of government, thought that it was one which might justify such a grant.Sir H. Parnell,
6. "That it is the opinion of this committee, that such act of repeal and explanation, should be accompanied with such exceptions and regulations as may be found necessary for preserving unalterably the Protestant Succession to the Crown, according to the act for the further limitation of the Crown, and better securing the rights and liberties of the subject and for maintaining inviolate the Protestant episcopal Church of England and Ireland, and the doctrine, government, and discipline thereof; and the Church of Scotland, and the doctrine, worship, government, and discipline thereof, as the same are by law respectively established."5. "That it appears to this committee, that scruples are entertained by his majesty's Roman Catholic subjects with respect to taking the said oath, merely on account of the word 'spiritual' being inserted therein; and that for the purpose of removing such scruples, it would be expedient to declare the sense in which the said word is used, according to the injunction issued by queen Elizabeth in the first year of her reign, and recognised in the act of the fifth of her reign, and which is explained by the thirty-seventh of the articles of the church of England, imports merely, that the kings of this realm should govern all estates and degrees committed to their charge by God, whether they be ecclesiastical or temporal, and restrain with the civil sword the stubborn and evil doer.4. That in the said oath and declaration is contained, that no foreign prince, person, prelate, state or potentate, ought to have any jurisdiction, power, superiority, pre-eminence, or authority, ecclesiastical or spiritual, within these realms.3. "That it appears to this committee, that, in several acts passed in the parliaments of Great Britain and Ireland respectively, a certain oath, commonly called the oath of Supremacy, is required to be taken, as a qualification for the enjoyment of certain offices, franchises, and civil rights, therein mentioned.10672. "That such parts of said oaths as require a declaration to be made against the belief of transubstantiation, or that the invocation or adoration of the Virgin Mary, or any other saint, and that the sacrifice of the Mass, as used in the Church of Rome, are superstitious and idolatrous, appear to this committee to relate to opinions merely speculative and dogmatical, not affecting the allegiance or civil duty of the subject, and that the same may, therefore, safely be repealed.1. "That it appears to this committee, that by certain acts passed in the parliaments of Great Britain and Ireland respectively, certain declarations and affirmations are required to be made, as qualifications for the enjoyment of certain offices, franchises, and civil rights, therein mentioned.
6. "That it is the opinion of this committee, that such act of repeal and explanation, should be accompanied with such exceptions and regulations as may be found necessary for preserving unalterably the Protestant Succession to the Crown, according to the act for the further limitation of the Crown, and better securing the rights and liberties of the subject and for maintaining inviolate the Protestant episcopal Church of England and Ireland, and the doctrine, government, and discipline thereof; and the Church of Scotland, and the doctrine, worship, government, and discipline thereof, as the same are by law respectively established."5. "That it appears to this committee, that scruples are entertained by his majesty's Roman Catholic subjects with respect to taking the said oath, merely on account of the word 'spiritual' being inserted therein; and that for the purpose of removing such scruples, it would be expedient to declare the sense in which the said word is used, according to the injunction issued by queen Elizabeth in the first year of her reign, and recognised in the act of the fifth of her reign, and which is explained by the thirty-seventh of the articles of the church of England, imports merely, that the kings of this realm should govern all estates and degrees committed to their charge by God, whether they be ecclesiastical or temporal, and restrain with the civil sword the stubborn and evil doer.4. That in the said oath and declaration is contained, that no foreign prince, person, prelate, state or potentate, ought to have any jurisdiction, power, superiority, pre-eminence, or authority, ecclesiastical or spiritual, within these realms.3. "That it appears to this committee, that, in several acts passed in the parliaments of Great Britain and Ireland respectively, a certain oath, commonly called the oath of Supremacy, is required to be taken, as a qualification for the enjoyment of certain offices, franchises, and civil rights, therein mentioned.10672. "That such parts of said oaths as require a declaration to be made against the belief of transubstantiation, or that the invocation or adoration of the Virgin Mary, or any other saint, and that the sacrifice of the Mass, as used in the Church of Rome, are superstitious and idolatrous, appear to this committee to relate to opinions merely speculative and dogmatical, not affecting the allegiance or civil duty of the subject, and that the same may, therefore, safely be repealed.1. "That it appears to this committee, that by certain acts passed in the parliaments of Great Britain and Ireland respectively, certain declarations and affirmations are required to be made, as qualifications for the enjoyment of certain offices, franchises, and civil rights, therein mentioned. said, that previous to moving that the Speaker should leave the chair, he had a few observations to make, in which he should not occupy much of the time of the House, as he saw no reason to anticipate objection to the course he was about to propose. It was highly gratifying to him to observe the feeling which prevailed on all sides in that House throughout the late discussion on this subject; a feeling which assured him that those who were bound by their sense of duty to contend against the measures which he proposed, would scorn to act upon a vexatious spirit in opposing the bill. He deemed it a duty which he owed both to the friends of the measure and to those gentlemen who were conscientiously opposed to it, now to state to the House the course he proposed to pursue, which was, to propose in the committee certain Resolutions, which he would presently read to them; and after they were carried, and leave given to bring in the bill which he intended to found upon them, to fix the first reading of the bill for Tuesday next, and the second reading for the Monday following; which arrangement, he conceived, would afford ample time for every member to enter fully into its merits. The Resolutions which he intended to propose were:
6. "That it is the opinion of this committee, that such act of repeal and explanation, should be accompanied with such exceptions and regulations as may be found necessary for preserving unalterably the Protestant Succession to the Crown, according to the act for the further limitation of the Crown, and better securing the rights and liberties of the subject and for maintaining inviolate the Protestant episcopal Church of England and Ireland, and the doctrine, government, and discipline thereof; and the Church of Scotland, and the doctrine, worship, government, and discipline thereof, as the same are by law respectively established."5. "That it appears to this committee, that scruples are entertained by his majesty's Roman Catholic subjects with respect to taking the said oath, merely on account of the word 'spiritual' being inserted therein; and that for the purpose of removing such scruples, it would be expedient to declare the sense in which the said word is used, according to the injunction issued by queen Elizabeth in the first year of her reign, and recognised in the act of the fifth of her reign, and which is explained by the thirty-seventh of the articles of the church of England, imports merely, that the kings of this realm should govern all estates and degrees committed to their charge by God, whether they be ecclesiastical or temporal, and restrain with the civil sword the stubborn and evil doer.4. That in the said oath and declaration is contained, that no foreign prince, person, prelate, state or potentate, ought to have any jurisdiction, power, superiority, pre-eminence, or authority, ecclesiastical or spiritual, within these realms.3. "That it appears to this committee, that, in several acts passed in the parliaments of Great Britain and Ireland respectively, a certain oath, commonly called the oath of Supremacy, is required to be taken, as a qualification for the enjoyment of certain offices, franchises, and civil rights, therein mentioned.10672. "That such parts of said oaths as require a declaration to be made against the belief of transubstantiation, or that the invocation or adoration of the Virgin Mary, or any other saint, and that the sacrifice of the Mass, as used in the Church of Rome, are superstitious and idolatrous, appear to this committee to relate to opinions merely speculative and dogmatical, not affecting the allegiance or civil duty of the subject, and that the same may, therefore, safely be repealed.1. "That it appears to this committee, that by certain acts passed in the parliaments of Great Britain and Ireland respectively, certain declarations and affirmations are required to be made, as qualifications for the enjoyment of certain offices, franchises, and civil rights, therein mentioned.
6. "That it is the opinion of this committee, that such act of repeal and explanation, should be accompanied with such exceptions and regulations as may be found necessary for preserving unalterably the Protestant Succession to the Crown, according to the act for the further limitation of the Crown, and better securing the rights and liberties of the subject and for maintaining inviolate the Protestant episcopal Church of England and Ireland, and the doctrine, government, and discipline thereof; and the Church of Scotland, and the doctrine, worship, government, and discipline thereof, as the same are by law respectively established."5. "That it appears to this committee, that scruples are entertained by his majesty's Roman Catholic subjects with respect to taking the said oath, merely on account of the word 'spiritual' being inserted therein; and that for the purpose of removing such scruples, it would be expedient to declare the sense in which the said word is used, according to the injunction issued by queen Elizabeth in the first year of her reign, and recognised in the act of the fifth of her reign, and which is explained by the thirty-seventh of the articles of the church of England, imports merely, that the kings of this realm should govern all estates and degrees committed to their charge by God, whether they be ecclesiastical or temporal, and restrain with the civil sword the stubborn and evil doer.4. That in the said oath and declaration is contained, that no foreign prince, person, prelate, state or potentate, ought to have any jurisdiction, power, superiority, pre-eminence, or authority, ecclesiastical or spiritual, within these realms.3. "That it appears to this committee, that, in several acts passed in the parliaments of Great Britain and Ireland respectively, a certain oath, commonly called the oath of Supremacy, is required to be taken, as a qualification for the enjoyment of certain offices, franchises, and civil rights, therein mentioned.10672. "That such parts of said oaths as require a declaration to be made against the belief of transubstantiation, or that the invocation or adoration of the Virgin Mary, or any other saint, and that the sacrifice of the Mass, as used in the Church of Rome, are superstitious and idolatrous, appear to this committee to relate to opinions merely speculative and dogmatical, not affecting the allegiance or civil duty of the subject, and that the same may, therefore, safely be repealed.1. "That it appears to this committee, that by certain acts passed in the parliaments of Great Britain and Ireland respectively, certain declarations and affirmations are required to be made, as qualifications for the enjoyment of certain offices, franchises, and civil rights, therein mentioned.Mr. Plunkett
1068 said, that after the vote the House had come to, it was not his intention to oppose the motion for the Speaker leaving the chair. With respect to the Resolutions proposed, he could only acquiesce in them on condition that the right hon. gentleman only demanded a formal adoption, and that those gentlemen who differed from him should in no way be precluded from offering any oppo-
1068Mr. Peel
 said, that there never was an instance of ascot and lot borough having been created by act of parliament. As to the purity of the electors of Westminster, upon which an hon. member insisted, he could only say, that the inhabitants of the city of Westminster had been grossly calumniated, if a great deal of corruption had not existed in former elections. The kind of corruption to which he alluded was, the paying up of arrears of taxes, in order to enable a man to vote.Mr. Courlenay
l.1071 said, that the particular mode of adding two members to that House was not in itself a question of great importance. At the same time, as this was the first instance in which parliament was called upon to apply a general principle of legislation, in that view it was material that the House should weigh maturely what it promulgated upon this subject. In framing a system of representation, experience proved the necessity of looking to property as an essential principle for the permanence of social order. At the same time, it was undoubtedly essential, that the interests of the poorer classes of society should be mixed up with those considerations. It would be unwise to take property as the simple basis of representation, as the French had done. It was true, that the basis of property was sufficient, as a security; but then the consequence would be, as in France, a total indifference on the part of the people as to the election of their representatives, or their conduct after they were elected. The representation in America, on the other hand, furnished an example of the defects of the popular principle, when taken as the principal basis. He thought, therefore, that the plan of representation best adapted
l.1071Mr. Baring
 said, he should be extremely sorry if any thing which had fallen from him should be ascribed to a want of respect for his gallant friend, and to the hon. baronet, who was not now in his place (sir F. Burdett). There was no man for whose talents he had a greater admiration, or whom he should be so sorry to lose, as a member of the House, than that hon. baronet. At the same time he must maintain, that any man who would complain of great public grievances, and enlarge upon the sufferings of the people—any man who would talk the greatest nonsense upon legislation and good government was most likely to succeed at such elections as those for Westminster and Southwark. Under all the circumstances, he felt inclined to support the amendment.Mr. Baring
 in order to take the sense of the committee on his noble friend's amendment, agreed to postpone the consideration of the amendment which he had proposed until that should have been decided.Mr. S. Wortley,
1073 of Galway, though he disapproved of every part of the bill, would support the increase proposed in the amount of the qualification. Without inquiring whether the imputations thrown out against the electors of Southwark and Westminster were true or not, he, could not help observing that the opinions of the members for those places, and he might add for Middlesex, were not usually
1073Mr. Martin,
l.l.l.,. admitted, that whether the sum was 10l.l.l.,.Mr. Peel
l. said, that whilst he was a friend to the principle of the bill, he should have preferred founding it upon, the county representation, and giving it to the East Riding of Yorkshire. That he, thought would have been the safer principle; but as the House had decided upon that subject, the question now was, when was the best of the three propositions before the committee. If the noble lord's amendment were adopted, it would be a precedent that when a borough offended, the right should be given to a large and populous town, and vote by scot and lot. Now, if future offences could be contemplated, a great addition would be made to that representation, upon which he looked with the leas favourable eye. He had objected to the selection of Leeds, because it was an arbitrary principle, and one which he apprehended would put the bill in jeopardy; however, the noble lord had decided; but why he had chosen scot and lot in preference to burgage tenure, or calling upon the Crown to grant a charter, did not clearly appear. Granting that the House ought to give a popular representation, they were not bound certainly to go to the extreme of the principle; and between the two rates of voting, he should give the preference to the 20l.Lord Castlereagh
 thought that by adopting the proposition for limiting the right of voting, they would come nearest to the principles on which the scot and lot right was originally granted. He should wish Leeds to have a large constitutional body; but when he voted for that course, which would secure it a body of from 2,500 to 3,000 voters, he thought he voted for that proposition which would be found most beneficial to the town itself, and most conformable to the constitution.Mr. Courtenay
l.,l.1076l.l.l. said, he was desirous of adhering to the ancient principles of the constitution, but thought it better to endeavour to catch their spirit, than to suffer themselves to be bound down by the mere forms and terms of their practice. The privilege given to scot and lot voters was evidently intended to be given to those who paid the taxes; and therefore when he took a person holding a house worth 10l.,l.1076l.l.l.Lord John Russell
 bore testimony to the disinterested conduct of the electors of Southwark. No application, during the five contested elections which he had stood for that borough, had ever been made to him for the payment of rates or taxes.Mr. C. Calvert
 said, he had formerly been of opinion that the better mode of disposing of the elective franchise of Grampound, would be, to give it to the West Riding of York, but he had altered that opinion, and should support the transfer to the town of Leeds, which he conceived would be adhering strictly to the principle of the constitution.Mr. Abercromby
l.l.l.l. objected to the amount of the qualification for voting which was proposed for Leeds, that qualification being for such persons as rented houses at 10l.l.l.l.Mr. Stuart Wortley
 contended, that all boroughs were not originally scot and lot. He was decidedly adverse to the amendment of the noble lord, though he should not object to some moderate composition. In his view, any change in the representation ought to be bottomed on property.Mr. Lockhart
1074 observed, that all were agreed in principle, and differed' only in degree. The object was, to give to the
1074Mr. Monck
 expressed his hope, that when the House was creating a new right, they would not overlook the claims of the poorer classes, who so largely contributed to the burdens of the state, and bore with such patience their unexampled privations. The introduction of any sum as a qualification in a scot and lot borough, was an innovation.Mr. Hurst
1075 regretted the doubts which the noble lord had expressed as to the fate of the bill; as he feared it was of the nature of those doubts to verify themselves in some other quarter. He thought that those who talked of the danger, should have shewn that it was the
1075Mr. Denman
 objected to the proposed limitation, as calculated to throw too much power into the hands of the overseers of parishes, and as being likely to cause much litigation with respect to the varying value of houses. He wished it to be thrown open to scot and lot voters.Mr. Scarlett
l.l.1070 begged to observe, that the conduct of the electors of Westminster had been distinguished by the greatest purity. Their example, there-
l.l.1070Sir R. Wilson
 rose to order. He apprehended that no member had a right to say that another member had not only talked nonsense, but used such language to his constituents as he would be ashamed to use in another place. If his hon. friend would attend some of the meetings where the members he had alluded to spoke to their electors, he would have ample opportunity to correct his opinion.Sir R. Wilson
 observed, that he was decidedly friendly to that alteration in the representation, which gave the people a greater share in the deliberative proceedings of that House. He should support the amendment of the noble lord.Lord Althorp
 considered, that it would be better to adhere to the constitutional practice, and say that the borough of Leeds should be a scot and lot borough, than to make any fanciful deviations, under the notion of forming a good representation. The absurdities which even men of the clearest understandings fell into, when they abandoned experience and took up theories, was but too frequent. He was not a little surprised at the argument of the hon. member for Taunton for a graduated scale of votes, rising according to the property of the voter; for his part, he thought it much better that the poor man should go into the county hall to give his vote upon a footing of perfect equality with his richer neighbour. If that principle were entertained, it would lead to discussions similar to those which had agitated France in the first period of her revolution. He trusted that when they were endeavouring to infuse new life into the constitution, the committee would see the necessity of proceeding on some recognised principle, and he therefore should wish to recommend the payment of scot and lot as that principle, and should therefore move that all the words after "the sum of be left out.Lord Milton
1069 begged leave to express his entire approbation of the mode of reform which had been introduced by his noble friend. It proceeded strictly upon constitutional principles, and for this reason he preferred it, both to the proposition for extending the elective franchise to the West Riding of Yorkshire, and to that for transferring it to the hundreds in the neighbourhood of Grampound. There was one point, however, on which he was inclined to differ, both from his hon.
1069Lord Milton
 felt that many who had supported this bill while it was in the hands of the noble lord who had brought it into the House, now that they saw it had got into the hands of those who were unfavourable to reform, might reasonably oppose it. From the first he had felt that this measure was not that which would satisfy the wishes of the country: nevertheless he had ^supported it, to show that those who supported radical or any other reform were not so uncompromising in their character as to accept of nothing because they could not get all they desired. He then noticed the reflections thrown on the people of Westminster on a former night, and declared that for propriety of conduct, integrity and discernment (except in the choice of one of their representatives), he knew of no body of men who better deserved the approbation of their countrymen. The objections which had been made to popular elections he regarded as a calumny, not on the people of Westminster, but on the people of England generally. The hon. member who had thrown out the reflections on the people of Westminster, had taken his information from a source that was false and infamous, on which he hoped he would place no future reliance. The hon. member for Taunton had said it was notorious that that individual would be most favoured who could talk most nonsense.Mr. Hobhouse
 spoke to order, and objected to any reference to what had passed on a former night.Mr. Bankes
 said, it was disorderly to refer to what had passed on a former debate.The Speaker
 said, that as the rule of the House was imperative, he must, without receding from his argument, adopt a different mode of enforcing it. He should now only suppose it to be the case, that language or sophistry which had been employed by him should appear sense to one man, whilst in the judgment of another it was mere nonsense. Was it any thing remarkable that this should happen at Westminster? Had no such contradiction ever been heard of at Taunton It had been rumoured that the people of Taunton, who had not scot and lot, but who, some of them, being in the interest of the opposition candidate, had not scrupled to draw along as his ensign, a loaf almost as big as a mountain, adorned with four cupids. He mentioned this anecdote at least on as good authority as that on which the hon. member for Taunton had attributed to the electors of Westminster a love of annual nonsense. The course which the question of reform had taken, was to him satisfactory, as the people had now been taught round whom they ought to rail, and who, when the time of trial came, would not be found wanting in their cause.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, he had inspected the accounts of a Westminster election some years ago, and could bear testimony to the correctness with which every shilling of the money expended on that occasion was accounted for. He knew of no instance of the poor rates being paid for any elector who favoured the popular candidates, and believed every voter for sir F. Burdett and Mr. Hobhouse on the late election would have been insulted by such a proposition. He would accept the present bill as a boon, small as it was, compared with what had originally been intended by the noble lord who brought it into the House.Mr. Hume
 supported the bill in its present shape, but regretted the alterations that had been made in it.Mr. Gurney
 said, that in every loan act was a clause that no stamp duty, whatever, shall be paid upon the transfer of stock. Now, he would ask the House if, after such a compact, it could be guilty of such a breach of public faith, as to consent to any tax upon this species of property?Mr. Grenfell
 said, that the object in going into the committee was not to propose any new tax, but to continue for a certain time the mitigated duty which had been regulated a few years ago. The repeal of a tax which produced half a million of money was a serious question hi the present state of the country. He would not say that some substitute might not be found for it; but the present was not the time for discussing the question.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was of opinion that the tax might be got rid of altogether. He could not but express his surprise that in, the discussion of the present question, no mention had been made of retrenchment; and economy. He should soon have an opportunity of shewing, in the discussion of the army, estimates, that, by an economical arrangement, the amount, of this tax might be saved upon that branch alone.Colonel Davies
1084sauve qui peut said, he would, at once, meet the principle of the motion, and he could not but observe, that although he was far from charging the hon. member with intending to bring down destruction upon public faith, and ruin upon individuals, the measure proposed would certainly have that effect, and therefore deserved every reprobation. The hon. member appeared to confound two principles entirely different in their application and effect: he confounded that burthen which the stockholder was bound to bear in conjunction with the rest of the community, with the imposition of a specific tax on the stockholder peculiarly. From the common burthen the stockholder claimed no exemption; for twenty years he had submitted to the property tax without complaint; but to a specific tax he did, and fairly did, object. It was said, that the stockholder bad in fact bought in considerable sums under a depreciated currency, which he now claimed to be repaid in gold. Certainly, during those years of depreciated currency nearly one-fourth of the present debt had been contracted; but how was it possible to separate that particular portion from the whole mass, or to distinguish the individuals who had profited by that temporary state of the circulating medium? Even if such a line could be drawn, what possible justification could the fact in question afford for an attack upon the public creditor? It would be just as reasonable to release and unbind every private bargain which had been made and entered into at the same date. He knew there was a feeling in the country, that the rich stockholder ought to contribute largely towards the public expenditure. To contribute certainly; but not to contribute specifically. Let the House recollect that funded property was not difficult of removal; it might easily be transferred to other countries; and it would be so, but that the security of England was preferred. Once let a breach of faith be suspected, and that preference was at an end; 1084sauve qui peutThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
10901089l.l.l.l.,1088ex post facto10871086l.1085 in bringing forward his promised motion, trusted he should be honoured with the attention of members, and particularly of those members interested in the prosperity of the sister kingdom; for he hoped to convince them that the rejection of his motion would be, to a very large class of the inhabitants of that kingdom, pregnant with the most serious injury. It needed not to be stated that over every description and over every form of property courts of equity now held jurisdiction. Wherever an account was to be taken, or a doubtful title investigated, a contract to be enforced or cancelled, or a disputed fact ascertained, courts of equity exercised an extensive, if not an exclusive jurisdiction; and the paramount importance of celerity and despatch in all the proceedings arising in such courts must be obvious to every one. Now, it was a general complaint, that although justice might upon the whole be fairly dealt out in courts of equity, yet, that the expense and delay attendant upon their decrees was a most intolerable grievance: that delay and expense was an inconvenience equally lamented by suitors and by lawyers; and the House would be imposing upon the already heavily burthened suitors of the Irish courts of equity an additional load of distress, if they permitted that practice which it was the object of the present motion to set aside. The duties united in the person of the hon. and learned gentleman opposite (Mr. Ellis), the duties of member for Dublin, and of master in chancery in Ireland, were so incompatible with each other, that either the first or the last must necessarily be neglected. He did not mean to say that the hon. and learned gentleman might not with perfect regularity discharge his functions as a member of the House of Commons—for the House had a paramount right to the service of its members and a power to compel their attendance; but lie wished
10901089l.l.l.l.,1088ex post facto10871086l.1085Dr. Lushington,
 rather thought, that where, as in this case, the motion named the individual to whom it referred, it ought to be considered as in some measure inculpatory, and as one of those subjects which the House, in delicacy, were in the habit of discussing in the absence of the individual. It would be, therefore, he thought, more consonant to the ordinary rules, to hear the hon. member before the question was put. He spoke, however, without having had any opportunity of consulting authorities.Mr. Wynn
109510941093 began by expressing a hope, that no sense of delicacy towards him personally, or to his feelings, would prevent the House from going into the fullest discussion upon the subject of the motion. He could only lament that that delicacy had not been observed by the hon. and learned gentleman, but that charges had been made against him, exaggerated in their nature and exasperated in the detail, while they were meant to affect that question which alone related to himself. If a long and diffuse dissertation of the grievances of Chancery suitors, and supposed dereliction in other offices with which he (Mr. Ellis) had nothing to do; if all this had been done, he felt himself excused in saying, that those exaggerated statements had been made by the hon. and learned gentleman, with no delicacy towards his (Mr. Ellis's) own peculiar situation: If the present question referred only to his own feelings, he would much rather have at once withdrawn from a contest, where his name, accompanied with every circumstance of exasperation, had been held up, day after day, and week after week, to public obloquy. But, humble as he was, he felt that his case was now mixed up with that of a constituent body of the empire; and that, however his own inclinations might tend, he-could not abandon his own rights with-
109510941093Mr. Ellis
1096 said, he was prepared, even admitting the impossibility of the effectually fulfilling the duties of a member of parliament, and of the office of master in chancery, at one and the same time, according to the argument of the hon. and learned doctor, to maintain this position, that, supposing the hon. and learned member who had just quitted the House should select his alternative and prefer the duties of his office, yet, that it was contrary to the uniform practice of that House to interfere on the general presumption of the incompatibility of the two situations. The House had a certain way of enforcing the attendance of its members; namely, by a call of the House, and by punishing defaulters; but, in this instance, upon a mere previous supposition of the difficulty or impossibility of their execution, the House was called upon to enforce the performance of certain duties, which it had never been customary so to interfere in. Numerous were the cases in which officers in the navy or army, being called to attend their duties or commands abroad, neglected their attendance in that House; yet no measure was ever proposed for the purpose of enforcing such attendance. But, the constituents of those gallant officers might with some show of reason complain of such neglect; seeing that they returned
1096Mr. Peel
1099l.1098 said, he should propose to consider, first, what was the general impression with respect to the course which ought to be pursued with the duties of Irish masters in Chancery; secondly, what was the case applicable to Mr. Ellis; and thirdly, what was the situation of the House with respect to the sentiments of the individual who had the honour to address them? This question was brought before the House on a former day, by the proposition of a right hon. baronet for instructing a committee to regulate the office of master in Chancery. The House came to a decision, the effect of which was, that the proposition should not affect the present situation of any individual. He had supported it for reasons which he stated to the House: but a he question was, what was the view of
1099l.1098Lord Castlereagh
ex post factoex post facto.ex post factoex post facto1100dictum; warmly supported the motion. He said, he entertained a high respect for the integrity and learning of his hon. friend; but he thought that if he retired from parliament, neither himself nor his constituents would suffer a very grievous calamity. The right hon. gentleman had denied the incompatibility of the two offices, because they were not enumerated in the act of 1803. The object, however, of that act was, to exclude those who were under the control of the Crown, and had no reference to the incompatibility of the offices which it interdicted, being held in common with a seat in that House. With respect to the incompatibility of the two offices, it appeared to him that the situation of master in chancery in Ireland, was one of the last which ought to make a man wish for a scat in that House, or which was compatible with it. This would appear obvious, when it was considered, that he had to decide upon cases without appeal from his ex post factoex post facto.ex post factoex post facto1100dictum;Mr. Plunkett
 expressed a hope, that the feeling of the House would be against the proposition, which in his opinion was not only a cruel proceeding towards an individual, but placed the Crown in an embarrassing situation. Last session this attempt was made in a clause introduced into the Chancery bill, which was stopped by those who stood between the king and the people. After that clause had been thrown out of the bill by the advisers of the king, how could they vote an address to his majesty to do what his advisers had refused to do? There was no pretence for the proposition. They might as well attempt to disqualify the right hon. and learned gentleman who recently astounded and bewildered the House upon the Catholic question. Mr. Ellis had proved that the duties of the office were not neglected, and the House had nothing to do with the transaction.Mr. Brownlow
 wished to follow up the remarks of the hon. gentleman by suggesting, that the sinking fund ought to be made applicable to the public service, and that taxes of an equal amount should be taken off.Mr. Ellice
 complained, that some hon. members were disposed to take off taxes from themselves and lay them upon their neighbours. He would support any proposition for the reduction of a tax, but never for transferring it from one interest to another. He thought it would be highly desirable that country gentlemen should come to a determination not to vote for any of the estimates until something had been done towards relieving the distress of the country.Mr. Bright
1097ex post facto said, that the right hon. gentleman had not stated one single argument against the incompatibility of the two offices. The right hon. gentleman had triumphantly appealed to the case of ambassadors at foreign courts. Who were injured in that case? The constituents. Who were injured in this case? Not the constituents, but the suitors in the court of Chancery. The right hon. gentleman again argued upon the supposition that Mr. Ellis was performing his duty in the court of Chancery. Whence I this inconsistency, but from the misconduct of Mr. Ellis? Was it possible that the House could sanction such inconsistency? The evidence of Mr. Ellis before the commissioners had been precise and decisive. He could not perceive that his explanation touched it at all. He said that he had three colleagues. But his colleagues might be as ambitious as he was, and might vote as zealously against the Catholics as he had done. As to the complaint of 1097ex post factoMr. Abercromby
1083 in rising to submit the motion of which he had given notice, would not shrink from saying, that he did so with the view of calling the attention of the House to the propriety of imposing a duty on the Transfer of Stock. He contended that the right and foundation of all government rested on the principle, that every man should pay for the protection of his property. If that were a general law which could not be disputed, then he maintained, that any exemption in favour of a portion of the community was a fraud upon the public. There was, however, at the present moment exempted from all direct share of the public burthens, a property equal in amount to the whole real property of the united empire. If this exemption had hitherto existed, lie was prepared to contend that circumstances might now exist to warrant the removal of that exemption. But he was not without very great authority when he stated his opinion to be, that this property was not legally exempted from a share of the public burthens; for he thought he was justified in saying that it had been ruled by the late chief justice of the court of King's-bench, that funded property was available for the support of the poor, under the 43rd of Elizabeth: and if liable to be taxed for the support of the poor, it ought surely to be taxed for the support of the public credit. [The hon. gentleman was here rendered inaudible by the coughing of members.] He begged pardon of the House for detaining them so long; but surely it was due to an individual who had been accused of making a proposition little short of robbery, to be allowed to explain himself. If the whole country was at present borne down with the public burthens, was it unfair to ask the fund-holder to take a share? He would ask hon. members to compare the present state of this country, with that of France at the commencement of the disturbances there, and to say if those disturbances did not arise from-the exemptions claimed by the clergy, the nobles, and other privileged orders. He would move, "That there be laid before this House, an account of all Stock transferred at the Bank of England for the ten years ending
1083Mr. Curwen,
1079 said, that under the present general distress of agriculture, he thought it impossible that the House
1079Mr. Curwen
1080 wished to press upon the consideration of the House the different circumstances under which the duties had
1080Mr. Lockhart
 was convinced; that, ministers would never begin the long promised work of retrenchment, until the House refused them some of the taxes, It was not by placing high duties, upon foreign corn that adequate relief, could be expected; for that would, be only transferring the pressure from the grower to the consumer. The real evil was in the pressure of excessive taxation, added to the improved, state of the currency.Mr. Monck.
1091l.l. seconded the motion; It seemed that the learned member for Dublin had, in effect, stated in his examination, that he considered himself only entitled to the benefit of his office, so long as he conscientiously and diligently performed the duties of it—duties which he had admitted required his own personal attendance. There was pretty sure evidence of his diligence in his office, allowing the increase of his fees to be a criterion. The learned member had bought his place on a calculation of 2,5001091l.l.Mr. Lennard
l. supported the motion, contending that it would be quite as just to tax the farmer's plough, his cart, or even his labourer as his horse. He considered the abolition of the husbandry horse tax as but a small boon; the whole amount of the tax did not exceed 480,000l.Sir C. Burrell
1081 before the question went to the vote, wished to call the attention of the House to its real nature. A
1081Mr. Huskisson,
1092 interposed, and said, that a doubt arose in his mind, whether or no the hon. and learned gentleman should rise before or after the question was put from the chair. If the question were considered by the House as implicating the hon. and learned gentleman in any thing like a distinct charge, then the course would be, for him to speak before the question was regularly put, and then to withdraw during the subsequent discussion. If this motion were, however, not meant to be inculpatory, but merely to relieve the hon. and learned gentleman from the duties of a particular office, then he might reserve himself until after the ques-
1092The Speaker
 thought, that the safer course would be, if any doubt prevailed, to hear the hon. and learned gentleman before the question was put.The Speaker
l.l.l.,1103l.,£14,723,300Deficiency of Ways and Means to meet Supplies voted
£14,723,300Deficiency of Ways and Means to meet Supplies voted£6,000,000
£6,000,000260,000Old Stores
260,000Old Stores240,000Lottery
240,000Lottery2,500,000Excise Duties
2,500,000Excise Duties £5,000,000Annual Malt Duty
 £5,000,000Annual Malt Duty
£14,723,300Deficiency of Ways and Means to meet Supplies voted
£14,723,300Deficiency of Ways and Means to meet Supplies voted£6,000,000
£6,000,000260,000Old Stores
260,000Old Stores240,000Lottery
240,000Lottery2,500,000Excise Duties
2,500,000Excise Duties £5,000,000Annual Malt Duty
 £5,000,000Annual Malt Dutyd.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.£20,723,300
£20,723,3001,000,000Interest on Exchequer Bills
1,000,000Interest on Exchequer Bills410,000Sinking Fund on Exchequer Bill
410,000Sinking Fund on Exchequer Bill£19,313,300
£19,313,3002,100,000Miscellaneous Services
2,100,000Miscellaneous Services1,204,600Ordnance
1,204,600Ordnance6,586,700Navy
6,586,700Navy£9,443,000Army
£9,443,000Army
£20,723,300
£20,723,3001,000,000Interest on Exchequer Bills
1,000,000Interest on Exchequer Bills410,000Sinking Fund on Exchequer Bill
410,000Sinking Fund on Exchequer Bill£19,313,300
£19,313,3002,100,000Miscellaneous Services
2,100,000Miscellaneous Services1,204,600Ordnance
1,204,600Ordnance6,586,700Navy
6,586,700Navy£9,443,000Army
£9,443,000Army11021101 rose, pursuant to notice, for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to a comparative statement of our Revenue and Expenditure. The object which he had in view, was to lay before the House such an exposition of the present financial embarrassments, and of those permanent demands for which the country must provide, as to induce them
l.l.l.,1103l.,£14,723,300Deficiency of Ways and Means to meet Supplies voted
£14,723,300Deficiency of Ways and Means to meet Supplies voted£6,000,000
£6,000,000260,000Old Stores
260,000Old Stores240,000Lottery
240,000Lottery2,500,000Excise Duties
2,500,000Excise Duties £5,000,000Annual Malt Duty
 £5,000,000Annual Malt Duty
£14,723,300Deficiency of Ways and Means to meet Supplies voted
£14,723,300Deficiency of Ways and Means to meet Supplies voted£6,000,000
£6,000,000260,000Old Stores
260,000Old Stores240,000Lottery
240,000Lottery2,500,000Excise Duties
2,500,000Excise Duties £5,000,000Annual Malt Duty
 £5,000,000Annual Malt Dutyd.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.£20,723,300
£20,723,3001,000,000Interest on Exchequer Bills
1,000,000Interest on Exchequer Bills410,000Sinking Fund on Exchequer Bill
410,000Sinking Fund on Exchequer Bill£19,313,300
£19,313,3002,100,000Miscellaneous Services
2,100,000Miscellaneous Services1,204,600Ordnance
1,204,600Ordnance6,586,700Navy
6,586,700Navy£9,443,000Army
£9,443,000Army
£20,723,300
£20,723,3001,000,000Interest on Exchequer Bills
1,000,000Interest on Exchequer Bills410,000Sinking Fund on Exchequer Bill
410,000Sinking Fund on Exchequer Bill£19,313,300
£19,313,3002,100,000Miscellaneous Services
2,100,000Miscellaneous Services1,204,600Ordnance
1,204,600Ordnance6,586,700Navy
6,586,700Navy£9,443,000Army
£9,443,000Army11021101Mr. Maberly
1115l.1114l.l.l.l.1113l.1112l.l.l.;l.,1111 said, it appeared to him extraordinary that the hon. gentleman should have closed his elaborate observations by proposing a reduction in duties upon which he had not in the very ample details he had given of the general taxation of the country—details, many of which might be spared, and to which, indeed, he was not prepared to reply, in the absence of those official documents which were calculated to elucidate such parts of the public accounts. Had he thought the hon. gentleman meant to go into so wide a detail, he certainly would have been prepared with re-
1115l.1114l.l.l.l.1113l.1112l.l.l.;l.,1111The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1119d.s.d.s.l.l.l.l.1118l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.;1117l.,1116 adverting to the pleasant observations of the right hon. gentleman on a change of administration, observed, that the right hon. gentleman told the House, that whenever he and his colleagues were of opinion that another administration were capable of managing the affairs of the country with more advantage, and with greater public confidence, they would give up their places. If the country were to wait until the gentlemen opposite entertained that opinion, it would wait until the right hon. gentleman grew old indeed in office. The right hon. gentleman also said, that there were political charlatans who would outbid one another, as at a Dutch auction, to manage the affairs of the country. He did not know if the right hon. gentleman meant to include his hon. friend in that assertion; but he concluded it by saying, that there were those who would undertake to manage those affairs cheaper than the Whigs. Now he should like to know how long it was, since the right hon. gentleman had learned to talk so contemptuously of the Whigs. He recollected the day when the right hon. gentleman was a very active and industrious and able secretary under the administration of the Whigs. He had had repeated communications with the right hon. gentleman at that period, and he had never heard him complain of his masters. He had no doubt that at that time the right hon. gentleman would also have said, "whenever we find any persons capable of forming an administration more advantageous to the country, we, the Whigs will resign." As, however, he could not equal the right hon. gentleman in joking, and indeed as he thought the subject too important for laughter, he would commence his observations by returning his thanks to his
1119d.s.d.s.l.l.l.l.1118l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.;1117l.,1116Mr. Calcraft,
 supported the resolution.Captain Maberly
s.;l.s.;l.1124l. said, that the hon. gentleman had totally mistaken the substance of the propositions before the House, if he imagined that they did not tend to reduce the Sinking Fund. The taxes proposed to be repealed formed part of that income, the surplus of which above the expenditure constituted the Sinking Fund: and therefore the reduction of those taxes must, to that extent, diminish the Sinking Fund; and if the hon. member thought that fund a delusion now, his concurrence in the motions before the House would tend to make it more so. It would, in fact, reduce the four millions which the chancellor of the exchequer anticipated as the Sinking Fund to two millions, that being one half of the duties upon inhabited houses and windows which the hon. mover proposed to repeal. The first part of the hon. member's proposition for reducing the expenditure of 1821, to the amount limited by the finance committee in 1817, was quite unnecessary for the reasons so clearly detailed by his right hon. friends below him; and he should have no difficulty in shewing to the House, that if it were expedient to remit or reduce any of the taxes, the selection made by the hon. mover, was the worst that could have been chosen in the present state of agricultural distress; for the duty on inhabited houses was not paid at all by the farmer occupying as a tenant; and if he occupied as an owner, he was likewise exempt under the acts imposing that duly, unless the annual value and rent of his house exceeded 10s.;l.s.;l.1124l.Mr. Lushington
l.l.ll.l.l.l.l.l.l.1123l.l.l.l.l.l. reminded the right hon. gentleman, that the proposal of this night was not to reduce the Sinking Fund two millions, but to reduce the taxes to that amount; not by taking from the Sinking Fund, but by increased economy. The object was, to relieve the country from a part of the burdens under which it at present laboured. If, however, the motion had been to reduce the Sinking Fund, it should have met with no opposition from him. He considered it a delusion which was encouraged and made to amount to a certain sum, that ministers might be enabled finally to lay their hands upon it and devote it to purposes of unnecessary expenditure. Though the loan of last year amounted to 24,000,000l.l.ll.l.l.l.l.l.l.1123l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Ricardo
11271126l.1125 said, that if he had come into the House with the determination of supporting the resolutions on the table, every thing which had passed in debate, and more particularly the speech of the right hon. the surveyor of Woods and Forests,—who admitted it was possible, and actually intended by government, to reduce the army and navy estimates to the amount recommended by the report of 1817—confirmed him in that opinion;—but when he was told, that in consequence of such intention, these resolutions were unnecessary, he would ask, why the reductions now proposed had not been made before the sixth year of peace?—or whether they could trust to the good faith of ministers to retrench, after the experience they had of their profusion
11271126l.1125Mr. Ellice
 supported the resolution. At the same time, he hesitated not to state his conviction that a reduction of the tax on salt would, of all reductions, be the least injurious to the revenue, and the most beneficial to the community. He believed there were calculations to show that if this tax were done away with altogether, other branches of the revenue would be considerably increased by such a measure.Mr. J. Smith
l.l.,l.,1122l.l.l.,1121l.l.1120 did not think that with all the misrepresentations, founded, of course, in mistake of the hon. gentleman who spoke last, he had added much to the stock either of pleasantry or argument. His right hon. friend the chancellor of the exchequer, had fairly enough alluded to a Dutch auction; but it never could be expected that the government should be knocked down to the Whigs on the score of economy, even though the auctioneer might be honest enough to declare, that he himself would not bid for the article. Certainly the hon. mover had displayed great research and perspicuity; but he was not aware that there was any practical utility in referring back to the year 1792, and comparing the establishments then with the establishments now. In 1792, we were in the ninth year of peace, after a war of only seven years' duration; so that the situation of the country was widely different. But, independently of this fact, the hon. mover seemed to have forgotten, that the pay of the army, the navy, and the ordnance had since that date been greatly increased. The difference in the numbers at the two periods was also worthy of consideration. He contended that the hon. gentleman ought to have made the comparison, if at all, not with the last, but with the estimates of the present year, with all their reductions; and the comparison ought not to have been with the year 1792, but with 1817, when the re-
l.l.,l.,1122l.l.l.,1121l.l.1120Mr. Huskisson
 opposed the resolution. He was decidedly hostile to the plan of appropriating the produce of the Sinking Fund to the service of the year. That fund ought to be preserved as a nucleus, to accumulate for the ultimate liquidation of the national debt.Mr. Wilmot
nem. con. trusted that, if the petition were brought up again, other points besides those which had been insisted on that night would be omitted, as they were highly objectionable. He had said, on a former night, that the rejection of a petition without reading it was strictly conformable with precedent. He would quote two cases in confirmation of his assertion. In 1781, there were two petitions brought up of which the reading was negatived nem. con.Mr. Wynn
l.11461145 said, he was seldom anxious to offer himself to the attention of the House; but he owned that on this particular question he was very desirous to take the earliest opportunity of making a few observations. When a proposition similar to the present was made last year, he had felt it his duty to explain the grounds on which he thought it inexpedient to comply with it. He had opposed that proposition, because he did not think the distress at that time was attributable to the existing laws, and because he thought, unless some clear and distinct view were taken of the specific remedy which it might be practicable to apply to the distress, a compliance with the proposition would be at that time inexpedient. He certainly felt that those general objections made by him last year might be said to be applicable to ail times. But still, when the interests, lie would not say of one class, but of the whole community, through one class, were deeply affected, it became a question of feeling as well as of expediency, whether an inquiry might not be consented to at one particular time, though not on every occasion when it was proposed. In that situation he felt himself at the present moment. It would be strange, indeed, if he or any one could hear of distress, which, whatever might be its degree, was universal throughout the country, without being greatly interested in the subject. He did not know how that man's mind could be
l.11461145Mr. Robinson
l.l.,l., observed, that he thought it would be the best policy to abrogate all the duties which restricted commerce in Ireland, except perhaps that which related to corn, where perhaps some protection was necessary for the English grower. In his opinion, the main cause of the present distress was taxation. It was idle, when particular interests were affected, to fly to legislation, or to look at the laws affecting any one species of commerce. Unfortunately that had been the course pursued; and it had raised a vicious and artificial system which could not now be altogether laid aside. Of this description were the laws for keeping corn above its natural price. It was, however, material, in considering this subject, to bear in mind that rents had increased in proportion to the rise in the price of the produce. He held in his hand an account of the average value of 100 acres of land in the years 1790, 1S03, and 1813. In 1790 the rent was 88l.l.,l.,Mr. Whitmore
 was convinced that the gentlemen on the ministerial side of the House were just as sincere in their wishes for every possible retrenchment as the hon. gentlemen opposite. He and his friends around him were equally aware of the effects of taxation; for a man must be worse than an idiot not to perceive that every class was pressed down by the burthen of taxation. But that the balance of taxation was not equally adjusted he was prepared to deny; nor could he believe that any relief could be given to the agriculturist, without at the same time relieving the other classes of the community. It was on this principle that he had voted against the resolutions proposed last night, and also against the repeal of the horse tax.Mr. Wodehouse
1153 said, that he for, one should oppose the appointment of a committee, unless they were to go into the fullest inquiry into the causes of the present distress. Unless the committee inquired into the pressure caused by the taxation, and into the effects of the existing state of the currency, the proceeding would be worse than a delusion upon the public; for, unless such an inquiry were entered into, it would be evident that the appointment of the committee had for its only object the raising of the price of bread, increasing the rent of the landholder, and supporting the revenue. The report of the committee would not be got up as some finance reports were at the Treasury. It was evident that taxation was one of the main evils which pressed upon the country. The existing state of the currency operated also to produce considerable distress. He hoped that those gentlemen who complained of this distress would exert themselves to prevent the voting a single shilling of supply without the most rigorous inquiry. In the present state of unexampled distress, when every, individual was anxious, by oppressing his fellow, to shelter himself from ruin, it was not by parading a paltry, pitiful saving of a million a-year that ministers
1153Mr. Bennet
1155s.s.s.1154 said, he could not help repelling the censure which his hon. friend had endeavoured to cast upon the
1155s.s.s.1154Mr. Western
 said, that the members for Shrewsbury and Kent seemed desirous of forming a committee of passion and prejudice rather than one of practical benefit. He was one of those who considered that the main cause of the existing agricultural distress was the want of protection of British produce against, the produce of the continent. The system of averages, as already established, had greatly failed, and he feared that any new system founded upon the same principle, could not be permanently beneficial. He thought the only way to accomplish the great object of the committee was to prohibit the importation of foreign corn altogether, leaving it to the discretion of parliament to decide when it was proper to remove the restriction. Nothing was more mischievous than the abstract philosophical notions which so much prevailed on all points of political economy.Mr. Dennis Browne
 observed, that on a former occasion he had opposed the appointment of a committee upon this subject, but he had now no hesitation in saying that his opinions were changed. He would willingly go into the committee, yet he could never sanction the enactment of higher protecting duties. He had thought the former, duty too high, yet he was willing to assent to it, in order to afford protection to the Irish farmer, and to give encouragement to the consumption of Irish corn in the British market.Mr. Calcraft
 said, that he knew something of this Mr. Higgins, the gaoler; for some time ago, a petition was transmitted to him, to present to that House, from several prisoners, who complained of his misconduct; but after he had received this petition, some of the parties wrote to him not to present it, because the county magistrates had rectified the matters complained of. From this circumstance it appeared, that this gaoler was not deserving of the unqualified panegyric which he had received.Mr. Hobhouse
 was quite astonished at the doctrine which had been held on tins subject. There was a proper tribunal, before which all matters with respect to gaola might be brought, namely, the visiting magistrates. The House therefore ought not to interfere in the present case.Mr. Wynn
1131 contended, that after an ineffectual appeal to the proper tribunal, it; was competent to any subject to present a petition. The noble lord who opposed) the motion; bad not attempted to contra-
1131Mr. Bernal
Aut humana parum cavit natura."—"Quas aut incuria fudit,1136113511341133 rose to present a Petition which was signed by 1,500 of the inhabitants of London and Westminster. The petition, he observed, referred to a most important subject which had already been brought under the consideration of the House. The petitioners expressed their regret that the recent petition of Thomas Davison, complaining of the conduct of Mr. Justice Best in having fined him three times in the course of his defence, should have been thrown out without having been read, and they added that the lining of a defendant during the course of his defence, by a judge, was contrary to the spirit of our laws; and that the House was the place to which applications ought to be made when grievances were complained of arising from what was conceived to be the mal-administration of justice in the courts: and they stated this the more confidently, as they understood that there was a standing committee of that House called the committee for superintending the administration of justice. They also said, that if the House neglected to superintend this administration of justice, they would lose what respect remained for them in the country. The prayer of the petition was, that the House would refer this important point, to the consideration of the committee of justice. He hoped that as this petition did not at all refer to the conduct of the judge, but merely to an abstract question, and as it was couched in most respectful language; that he should not hear complaints against it from hon. gentlemen opposite. The hon. member contended, that that House was the proper place to which applications ought to be made where parties were aggrieved by the conduct of judges. It might be said that, if the party was injured, he ought to apply to the courts of law. He would say, as Home Tooke had said on this subject—"The courts of law were open to all: so was the London Tavern;" or as Goldsmith had said of the sign at the public-house, which; "Invites each passing stranger that can pay." Courts of law and their decisions were not always regarded with such reverence in that House; for when the great question as to the power of un-
Aut humana parum cavit natura."—"Quas aut incuria fudit,1136113511341133Mr. Hobhouse
 thought the present petition not liable to the same objection as the former. He was sorry for the manner in which the hon. member had prefaced the introduction of the petition. His speech had been made up of charges, formally prepared as it were, against the judges, which were incapable of being then answered. If the petition, on being read, should appear to attack the opinion pronounced by the House on the petition of Davison, he should oppose its reception.Mr. Wynn
 expressed a doubt, whether it could be received, inasmuch as it alluded to what had been said by a member of that House on another occasion.Mr. Wynn
 consented to withdraw the petition, in order to rectify the point of form, and to present a similar one so corrected.Mr. Hobhouse
1138 approved of the decision to which the House had formerly come, and was of opinion, that the grounds of it had not been fairly stated. The learned gentleman had said, that this was the first time in which the House had rejected a petition without hearing the contents of it read, and in so doing had assumed that the House had rejected the petition without taking any cognizance of it. But this was not the case. The learned gentleman had himself stated the substance of Davison's petition; and it was owing to the statement made by the learned gentleman that the House had not permitted the petition itself to be read. If the learned gentleman had said, that he had presented it for the purpose of proposing some mode of remedying the evil complained of, he (Lord C.) should have had no objection to have had it laid upon the table; for the House was undoubtedly a tribunal capable of deciding upon the policy or impolicy of the existing laws: but as the learned gentleman had presented the petition as a complaint for illegal conduct against a learned judge, whose conduct had subsequently been solemnly reviewed and approved of by the Court of King's-Bench, be had thought it his
1138Lord Castlereagh
 confessed, that he was an advocate for the commercial and shipping interests, but lie did not feel the less for the agricultural. He considered that a rise in the price of corn would enable the landlord to pay his labourer better, and keep him out of the workhouse.Mr. Wilson
sub silentio.l.Nisi Prius maintained, that the case of Davison was one in which the right of the judge had been legally exercised. The judge at sub silentio.l.Nisi PriusMr. Serjeant Onslow
 declared, that after what the House had heard from local magistrates with respect to the conduct and character or the gaoler, the statement of the petitioner must be deemed a foul and infamous calumny, which ought not to be circulated with the sanction of that House.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
11611160s.,s.s.s.,s.s.s.s.s.11591158s.11571156 disclaimed any intention of imputing unworthy motives to any of the various patties whose interests were concerned in the question; but he would
11611160s.,s.s.s.,s.s.s.s.s.11591158s.11571156Mr. Ricardo
 as one of the visiting magistrates, felt himself called upon to say a few words upon the subject of this petition. The rules complained of by the petitioner were sanctioned by two of the judges. He himself was one of those who disapproved of the rule excluding all newspapers from the prisoners; but he was opposed by the majority of the magistrates, whose decision was approved by that humane and constitutional judge, Mr. Justice Bailey. As to the petitioner's complaint about the rule with regard to work, reform being one of the main objects of imprisonment, it was better to employ prisoners in some branch of industry, than to allow them to spend their time in listless inactivity; and yet no prisoners were compelled to work in this prison but such as received the county allowance. The restrictions as to communication by letter he thought necessary for the purpose of securing the safe custody of prisoners. With regard to the character of the gaoler of this prison, he could declare from personal knowledge that he was a most humane man, whose removal would be a serious grievance to the prisoners themselves.Mr. Hornby,
1130 said, that this was the third time the conduct of the gaoler had been a matter of complaint to this House; and after an- investigation into his con-
1130Lord Stanley
 replied, that it was certainly his intention to oppose the receiving of this petition.Lord Stanley
 said, that lie should feel extreme jealousy at any measure at all calculated to raise the price of the necessaries of life. The only consolation lie had with respect to the proposed committee was, that the opinion of its members would be much at variance on the means of affording relief, that the whole would, come to nothing.General Gascoyne
1150l.s.s.1149s.l.1148l.l.,l.l.l.l.s.s.l.,l.l., said, that the subject was undoubtedly one in the treatment of which party feeling ought not to interfere. He, for one, should not reproach the right hon. gentleman for any inconsistency which there might be between his present course and that which he pursued last session. He was not disposed, however, to augur very favourably of the result, after what had fallen from him. The right hon. gentleman was mistaken if he attributed to him any wish to exclude the foreign grower from the home market: he desired only to place him on a level with the English grower. It must be concluded that ministers were ignorant of the real extent of the distress. Had they known it, it would have been their imperative duty long ago to have interposed relief. To such an extreme had it been carried, that unless a remedy were quickly applied, it would come too late. He did not want to repeal any of the taxes to pay off the national debt; the amount rendered it impossible; but he called upon ministers to remove some of the existing burdens, to prevent the complete and irremediable ruin of the nation. In the most flourishing times the income of the whole empire could never be placed higher than 400,000,0001150l.s.s.1149s.l.1148l.l.,l.l.l.l.s.s.l.,l.l.,Mr. Curwen
 could not help regarding it as monstrous doctrine, that a statement of great oppresion from a prisoner should not be laid on the table of that House, because it referred to a gaoler of whose character two or three of its members entertained a favourable impression. If any gaoler were charged with inhumanity by a prisoner, the charge should, in his view, be investigated. He had a good opinion of the gaoler of the county of which he had the honour to be a representative; and yet if such charges as the present petition contained were preferred against him, he would certainly be an advocate for the investigation of that complaint, if a petition complaining of oppression, especially by a prisoner, were presented against the representative of the county, or the whole body of the magistrates, he would vote for its reception. In this case, the petition was from an unfortunate prisoner, whose character he did not know or care about. But he would say of him, as lord Chatham had said of Wilkes, that he neither cared about his private character or public principles, but considering him as an English subject, possessing rights which the law gave him, and the law alone could take away, he would resist any attempt to subject him to oppression.Mr. Lambton
 asked his noble friend, whether it was his private opinion that the petition should not be received?Mr. Lambton
 deprecated the doctrine that that House, by receiving a complaint of oppression from any petitioner, made itself a party to that complaint, or to the charges which it imputed. From the admission of such doctrine, another proposition would naturally follow—that if the House received the complaint, and instituted an inquiry upon the subject, the case would be referred to a partial tribunal. He was an advocate for the reception of any petition couched in decorous language. It was the undoubted right of the subject to state his grievances to that House, and the duty of that House to receive such statements.Mr. Lockhart
1152 said, that if any assistance could be afforded to the agriculturist, it must be by extending relief to all branches of the community. He wished that gentlemen would consider the impropriety of voting large grants, without previously inquiring into the practicability
1152Mr. Tremayne
 said, he had always been of opinion that bread and corn might be furnished cheaply to the people of this country, without maintaining the importation of foreign corn on its present footing. It was manifest, that the great object of the continental powers was the improvement of their manufactures. Every man must see that without some material alteration in the state of things, a famine was rendered probable. It was obvious that a large proportion of the lands now employed in the growth of corn must soon be thrown out of cultivation. If the agriculture of England was not protected, the country would soon be ruined.Mr. Barham
 said, that the noble lord had mis-stated him, for he had informed the House on the former night, that there were three distinct propositions, which he meant to propose in following up the petition.Mr. Denman
1137 said, the House might have been saved all this trouble, had they received the petition he presented some evenings back. It was rejected without being read. This he believed was quite unprecedented. Of all the subjects that could come before them, the most important perhaps was the conduct of the judges of the land. The case became a very important one, if it was indeed true,
1137Mr. Denman
 was of opinion that the present agricultural distress arose chiefly from the great importation that had taken place in 1818 and 1819. He was aware that the pressure of taxation was severely felt by the agriculturist. An hon. gentleman had talked of throwing the thin lands out of cultivation; but he apprehended the hon. gentleman could not be aware either of the situation or of the extent of lands of that description. If such a plan were carried into execution, the country must inevitably be plunged into a state of insurrection; for there would be no possibility of finding employment for the numerous hands that would thus be deprived of labour. Every possible retrenchment should be effected, in order to reduce the present rate of taxation; and some restraint should be placed on excessive importation.Mr. Walter Burrell
l.l., trusted that the expectations of the public would not be too much raised by the appointment of this committee. Indeed, he felt convinced that if every system of economy and retrenchment was not enforced, the inquiries of the committee would be worse than useless. It had been truly said, that, id referring to the corn prices of 1790 and 1795, they ought to take into consideration the expenditure of the country at that period. The interest of the national debt was, at that period, 14,000,000l.l.,Mr. Honywood
1129 rose to present a petition from Nathan Broadhurst, at present a prisoner in Lancaster castle. The petitioner represented "That he had been, originally, arrested upon a charge of high treason, which charge being afterwards abandoned, he had been tried for a misdemeanor, and sentenced to two years' confinement; that on the day of his arrest he was eon-fined to a cold, damp, stone room, for seventeen hours out of the twenty-four; that all letters written by him were obliged to be unsealed and opened to the inspection of the gaoler, before they could be dispatched; and all letters addressed to him were, with the same view, broken open, and brought to him in that state; that on one occasion, without any provocation whatever, the gaoler came to the petitioner and told him that for the good order and government of the prison it was necessary that he should be immediately committed to a place called the Ditch, which is a place of marked and peculiar degradation; that he was accordingly forced thither, and hurried down a flight of several steps, by which means his ancles were very much injured; and that he was so severely fettered, that finding himself unable to bear the extreme suffering to which they exposed him, he sent for a surgeon, who, upon seeing the state he was in, instantly ordered the fetters to be taken from him, thinking it most cruel that they should remain." The petition enumerated various other grievances to
1129Mr. James
 decided, that where such an allusion was noticed by any member, the petition could not be received.The Speaker
11441143s.1142 seconded the motion. He observed, that although his majesty's ministers had declined to take any step on this subject, he by no means imputed any blame to them on that account. He was convinced that the petitions of the distressed agriculturalists had not been treated with neglect or inattention, either by that House or by ministers. But the fact undoubtedly was, that the question was one full of difficulties. The first difficulty was the natural jealousy entertained by the mercantile interest upon it. That jealousy would, he trusted, however, not induce them to oppose the motion. The object was a practical object. It was not the wish of the supporters of the motion to enter into any questions of political economy. For such discussion their habits were unfit; and he trusted that none of the gentlemen who might speak on the motion would be drawn into such a discussion. Another difficulty attendant on the ques-
11441143s.1142Sir E. Knatchbull
1139 said, that as the courts above could not review any proceeding which had arisen out of a contempt in the courts below, the House of Commons was the fit tribunal to review it. If any subject of the realm considered himself aggrieved by a fine or any other punishment inflicted on him in a court of justice, he could have no remedy for the grievance unless he obtained it in that House. In the case of Davison, the fine which had been inflicted upon him had been stated
1139Mr. Scarlett
 observed, that testimonies equally high, had been borne in that House to the conduct and character of governor Aris, who had nevertheless been indisputably proved to be a confirmed knave and tyrant.Sir R. Wilson
nation boutiquiere,l.l.,l.,1141s.,1140 in pursuance of notice, rose to move for the appointment of a committee to inquire into the distress of the Agricultural Interest. If the committee were granted, he hoped it would be allowed to enter with full powers into an examination of the causes which had produced that distress, and would be permitted to report its opinion thereon to the House; and to state whether any and what remedy could be found for the grievances complained of. He well knew the delicate grounds upon which the question rested; and he could therefore have wished that it had been placed in more competent hands. He was happy, however, to observe, that upon all former occasions on which this question had been discussed, no party feeling had ever exhibited itself; and he therefore trusted that the gentlemen who usually opposed the agricultural interest—and especially that individual amongst them who was so highly distinguished for his knowledge of political economy (Mr. Ricardo), would permit the committee to see what good they could effect by their deliberations. Trade and agriculture were so interwoven with each other, that they appeared to him but as one interest; and he had always deemed it wicked to consider them as jarring with each other. He did not know whether it was attributable to his education and his early habits, but he was accustomed to consider the agricultural interest as the basis of all the other, and as the foundation on which the superstructure of public prosperity was invariably reared. If ever there had been a time in which that interest required public assistance, the present was the time. He therefore trusted that the petitioners would not be allowed to petition in vain. The petitions now on their table were signed by more than 100,000 persons, and were not got up in the streets and alehouses, as had too often been the case recently; were not signed by women and school-boys but by the yeomanry of the country, the heart's blood of the state, the
nation boutiquiere,l.l.,l.,1141s.,1140Mr. Gooch,
1164 said, that as to the passage complained of, he was led to believe that every word of it was true. Since he had heard of the intention to bring forward the complaint under consideration, he had taken the trouble of inquiring with respect to the practice of publishing lists of the names of members who voted in majorities and minorities of that House, and he had found, that it had prevailed for above a century. The first instance was that of a division in the House of Lords in 1703; next, that of a division in 1714, upon the expulsion of sir It. Steele. Then followed the lists upon the proposition of the Excise laws, and upon the employment of foreign troops in 1742. From that period down to the present this practice had prevailed; and now, for the first time, a complaint was preferred against it, and that too, upon very untenable grounds; for, although the House did not distinctly come to a vote upon the extraordinary admonition of the noble secretary for foreign affairs, from all that he had heard the paragraph complained of contained a correct description. Whether any gentlemen Were; ashamed of what, they did, or how they voted generally in. that House, he should not pretend to say. But he should be at all. surprised, to find some gentlemen unwilling to have it
1164Mr. Bennet
 said, that the ground of his hon. friend's complaint was not against the practice alluded to, but against a particular paragraph, imputing improper motives to a majority of the House upon a certain occasion. By this paragraph' that majority was charged with supporting an admonition to the people hot to trouble that House any more with their petitions; which charge was contrary to the fact. His noble friend had been accused of admonishing members of that House net-to present the petitions of the people. But what was the fact? Why, that some gentlemen, declaring that they felt it their duty to present any petition, couched in decorous and respectful language, his noble friend had observed, that it was the duty; of every member, not merely to examine the style or expressions, but the matter or object of any petition which he was called upon to present.Sir Charles Long
1167 said, that certainty a more detestable and wicked libel had never been published. If he had himself called the attention of the House to subject, it was perhaps no more then ought to have done; and he could justify himself for having abstained from taking that course, by that self-indulgence which might be allowed to a minister. Now, however, that it was brought before, the House, he must say, that to impute him a desire to prevent the people from exercising the right of petition was not only wicked, but absurd certainly had admonished the people not to present petitions, complaining of grievances,, in which that House could afford them no relief: and such an admonition he apprehended, was an act of great kindness to the people of England. But, when he
1167Lord Castlereagh
 did not mean to defend the paragraph in question, but rose in consequence of what had fallen from the noble lord opposite. The noble lord had said, that no fair man could possibly have misconceived his meaning. Now he apprehended that he had the character of being a fair man; yet he certainly under-Stood the noble lord on that occasion to have read a lecture to petitioners approaching that House. The noble lord had indeed subsequently explained his expressions; and he was bound to give him credit for that explanation.Mr. Hutchinson
1168 observed, that if the hon. member was counsel for the editor of the paper, he was not a very judicious one; for if he meant to say that the attack was not on the House, but on an individual member of it, and because it was
1168Lord Castlereagh
 said, he had put it on the footing of a libel on the majority of that House; but still he was prepared to withdraw the motion, provided the libel was not defended. If, however, he found even one member defending it, he would take the sense of the House upon it.Mr. S. Wortley
 said, he would only observe, that the paragraph appeared to have been totally misapprehended. It was very possible that the minority might have voted under an impression which did not at all influence the votes of the majority. Nothing whatever was imputed to the majority. At the same time, he must say, that he did not think this was a fit subject for the deliberation of the House. It was quite clear, that this was nothing more than a political squib. Scarcely a day passed in which the worst motives were not imputed to public men; for his own part, he was constantly held up, by a certain portion of the press, as a man desirous of overturning the constitution. He thought the hon. member had better withdraw his motion, and unconditionally, for he really could see nothing wrong in the paragraph complained of.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that the question had now assumed such importance in his mind, that he could not consent to withdraw it.Mr. S. Wortley
 said, that if the printer should now be called to the bar, if would not be for any offence of his own, but because the hon. member would not withdraw his motion.Colonel Davies
 said, he was not at all inclined to persist in his motion for adjournment, if the hon. gentleman would also withdraw his motion.Mr. Bennet
 contended, that there could be no other ground for withdrawing the motion than the admission required, of the passage being an unjustifiable attack on the majority of that House. The complaint could not be abandoned on the ground that it was unfounded. It was impossible not to consider the passage a breach of privilege, but it was not his desire to proceed farther, if the offence was not justified.Mr. Bathurst
 hoped the hon. member would withdraw his motion. He deprecated any libel upon that House; but he looked upon the paper in question with a different eye from the hon. member.Sir R. Fergusson
 asked, whether he was to understand that the gentlemen opposite made a virtual acknowledgment that the passage was indefensible. [Cries of "no, no."]Mr. S. Wortley
 said, he did not think that the House had the power to commit the printer.Mr. Hobhouse
l.,l.,l.l.,l. presented a petition from Charles Hill, a person 74 years of age, who had been confined in Ilchester gaol for 15 years. Having been appointed a. collector and assessor of taxes in 1796, he went on in that capacity until 1804. In 1806, he was charged with a deficiency of. 719l.,l.,l.l.,l.Mr. Alderman Wood
 said, that the Treasury had nothing to do with the case; the Crown had merely instituted the process for the benefit of the parish that had been defrauded. It was for the parish therefore, and not the Treasury, to show mercy.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was satisfied that if the state of the gaol were inquired into, it would be found to be conducted in a most perfect manner.Sir T. Lethbridge
 said, that as one of the members for Ilchester, he had investigated the case, and found, that though many of the facts stated in the petition were true, they assumed a different colour when accompanied by the explanation. It was true that this unhappy man had been confined ever since 1806, for only S4A; and that if he had executed certain deeds, he would have been discharged long ago. Four years had, however, elapsed since he had consented to execute those deeds. If he had been originally to blame, surely he had expiated Ids offence. The prison being below the bed of the river, was necessarily damp and unwholesome. The greatest pains were nevertheless taken to obviate these evils. The gaoler had been highly successful in introducing a variety of beneficial reforms.Dr. Lushington
 said, that with another magistrate of London, the town clerk, and a surveyor, he had visited the prison, and had remained in it for some hours. At the time that the petitioner was treated in the way described, a person charged with fraud, Mr. Kinnear, was living in the house of the gaoler.Mr. Alderman Wood
1172 said, he had received a statement from one of the magistrates of Somerset upon this subject. It appeared that the city of London sent out a sort of pilgrimage to inspect the gaols of the kingdom—that a city deputation, consisting of two aldermen and the town Clerk, visited the town of Ilchester; they
1172Mr. Baring
 objected to this mode of interrogation.Mr. Bernal
 said, that the hon. member (Mr. Baring) should not have harshly contradicted a member of that House who stated that he had been in the gaol for two hours. One hon. member had said, that the gaoler had been sent for to the inn; he denied it. He had been appointed, with others, to inspect the different gaols in the kingdom, under the authority of lord Sidmouth. The inspectors did not feel that they were bound to find fault: their principal object was to state the size of the rooms, the conduct of the prisoners, the hours of locking up the gaol, &c.Mr. Alderman Wood
 said, that the object of his hon. friend's amendment was, that parliament should give some pledge to the people, that as, on the one hand, they took away the people's money, so, on the other, they would endeavour to gratify their wishes and relieve their distress. He hoped he would repeatedly bring such questions before the House.Mr. Bennet
 said, he was not prepared immediately to decide upon so important a question as that which his hon. friend's proposition involved: neither was he prepared to take a step, which went to embarrass, not the particular administration, but the general government of the country. Strong as was his hostility to ministers, he could not take this mode of gratifying any party feeling. He yielded to no man in a desire for strict economy and a constitutional reform in that House. He concurred in many of the observations made by his hon. friend; but he could not vote so extensive a measure without having had an opportunity of hearing it fully discussed. With respect to the army estimates, he should object to the amount of force proposed, thinking it too large for the exigencies of the country; but as he knew that there must be some army, and as that army must have some pay, he could not oppose going into the committee.Mr. Calcraft
 wished to know from his hon. friend, whether it was his intention to press his resolution of refusing all supply until the reform stated in his amendment should take place, or until the House pledged itself to the measure?Colonel Davies
 thought the best course would be to withdraw both mo-lions. He must say, however, that it appeared to him, that an unfair interpretation was given to the paragraph in question; that there was no assertion whatever that the majority had voted for the admonition to the people; and it was unfair to argue that motives were imputed to them by implication.Lord A. Hamilton
 thought that the value of the resolutions proposed by his hon. friend would be lost by the course just proposed. At that late hour it would be out of all question, to go into the army estimates. The better way would be, to adjourn, and so give his lion, friend an opportunity of shaping his motion on this important subject.Mr. Tierney
 said, it had not been his intention to persist in his motion. for bringing the printer to the bar of that House, for he believed he was not person who was most to blame; but, after the hon. gentlemen opposite had thought proper to defend the act of which he complained, he would put it to the House whether it would be consistent with their., dignity to pass it over without animadversion. Still, however, as far as he was personally concerned, he was perfectly ready to withdraw it, provided gentlemen On, the other side would admit that it was an, unjustifiable proceeding to impute motives to members in the way in which they had been imputed in the paper complained of If they persisted in defending such conduct, he thought the House could not do less, in vindication of its own dignity, than call the printer to the bar, that he might at least receive some admonition.Mr. Stuart Wortley
1163 rose to call the attention of the House to a gross breach of its privileges. He was among those who approved of the publicity given to the debates and proceedings of that House. But, while those reports were allowed by connivance to go forth to the world, it was material to guard against any misrepresentation, especially with respect to the decisions or votes of the House; and it was a misrepresentation of this nature which he felt it his duty to submit to the House. That misrepresentation appeared in "The Morning Chronicle" of the 26th of February, and contained a very foul libel upon a majority of that House. The terms of this libel were as follows:—"List of the minority of 37 who voted on Friday last, the 23rd, for hearing the petition of Thomas Davison read before it was rejected, and against lord Castlereagh's admonition to the people of England, not to trouble and take up the time of the House of Commons any more with their petitions [Hear, hear.] After hearing such a libel, he could not but express his surprise at the cheers on the other side. Did any gentleman mean to assert that the majority who voted upon the occasion alluded to, did decide in favour of the admonition which lord Castlereagh was alleged to have given? If any gentleman were so disposed, he would say to I him, look at the Journals, do you find there that any such proposition was ever brought forward as this paragraph implies was supported by the majority?'* He would dare any man to prove that the decision of the House was here fairly described. The statement, then, was a libel The statement to which he referred imputed to a majority of that House a decision which it never pronounced, and a motive upon which it never acted. Such a proposition was never made, and was it not then most unwarrantable to charge a majority of that House with voting in favour of words to that effect, not one of those words appearing in the motion upon which this majority decided? Some such words were, it was said, made use of in the course of the debate. But, whether such words were made use of or not, they formed no part of the motion upon which
1163Mr. Stuart Wortley
 observed, that the information he had received from the gaoler was that he had been sent for by the hon. alderman and his colleague, who made inquiries of him relative to the state and system of the prison. As far as his own experience went, he had never seen any place of confinement under such excellent regulation. The gaoler had introduced a system of labour, by which the prison discipline was aided and enforced to a degree which did honour to the country.Mr. F. Buxton
 said, that the paragraph complained of did not, in fair construction, admit of the interpretation which had been ascribed to it. It was stated, that the minority voted against the admonition of the noble lord, not against any proposition made to the House, but against the principles and sentiments of the noble lord. He hoped both motions would be withdrawn.Mr. J. P. Grant
1170 then moved the previous question upon Mr. Wortley's motion;
1170Mr. Lambton
 declared his readiness to support the motion. He saw nothing in it to prevent their going into a committee of supply. All it involved was a pledge on the part of the House to retrenchment and reform, which he thought they were bound to give to the people.Mr. Monck
 said, he had heard the paragraph read, and certainly did not think that it deserved the censure of the House. It did not say that the House had sanctioned an admonition to the people, but threw the blame of such admonition on the noble lord. If it had said that the minority were against the motion of the noble lord for an admonition, it might be blameable; but surely no one could think that the House would vote on an admonition.Mr. Monck
 said, that in point of fact what the printer had stated was strictly true, for the minority had voted against the admonition of the noble lord.Mr. Barham
1184l.l.;l.1183l.l.l.l.l.l.1182l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1181l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1180l.l.s.l.l.11791178l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1177 said, that in rising to object to the motion, he could assure the House that he did not adopt this course with any wish to oppose unnecessarily the business of the committee of supply. His object was to place upon record the present state of the military force and expenditure of the country compared with its state at former times. He reminded the House that the committee of finance of 1817 recommended the adoption of the same military expenditure that was estimated for 1792, and which the committee deemed sufficient, or nearly so, for every exigency. It was impossible, without the most, rigid economy, to afford relief to
1184l.l.;l.1183l.l.l.l.l.l.1182l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1181l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1180l.l.s.l.l.11791178l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1177Mr. Hume
 said, he was not prepared to state in what supplies he should concur, until he saw the fate of his motion, upon which he should certainly take the sense of the House.Mr. Creevey
 explained, that his only object was to pledge the House to take into its consideration the number of official persons sitting among them, who were directly interested in the estimates.Mr. Creevey
l.1174l.l.1173 said, he felt it his duty to oppose the motion. They had hitherto
l.1174l.l.1173Mr. Creevey
l.,l. requested that gentlemen would attend to this fact, that Charles Hill, 74 years old, had been confined 15 years for owing 31l.,l.Mr. Creevey
1165 said, that the first part of the statement in the paragraph complained of was literally true, while1 the second was, according to his impression, substantially correct. The noble lord, after he gave the admonition referred to, certainly attempted several explanations; but still his conception of the noble lords original meaning remained unchanged Upon such a declaration then from any minister, or any member of that House, with respect to the right of petitioning, it was the duty of the public press to animadvert. If gentlemen thought the printer had been betrayed into indiscretion, he trusted to the liberality of the House that such indiscretion would not be made the subject of punishment. The printer have; been indiscreet; but
1165Mr. Creevey
 hoped that both motions would be withdrawn, tie however, was not sorry that the question had been agitated, since it was an illustration of the mischief which must inevitably result from rejecting the petitions of aggrieved persons, without reading them.Mr. Denman
 observed, that the question was not whether his noble friend had made an indiscreet declaration, but whether a gross libel had been published upon the conduct of a majority of that House? For himself, he was anxious that his acts and votes in that House should be fully made known; but as to the declaration imputed to his noble friend, he denied that he had uttered any such words as those imputed to him.Mr. Wallace
 said, he bad often heard that Hill might have been liberated, if he would give up certain property. He had driven the trade of an attorney in the gaol, and had made considerable profits by his practice. There were two visit-ring magistrates to the gaol, and before every quarter session a number of gentry surveyed the prison; and if any man had a complaint to make, it was heard by them. He had heard that it was once a part of the worthy alderman's duty to go down to Ilchester gaol to examine it, but that, instead of going into the prison, he had made his report to the city of London from a printed book put into his hands.Mr. Dickinson
 said, he had received a statement of particulars confirming what had just fallen from the hon. gentleman.Mr. Dickinson
 reminded the House, that if the motion were carried, that could not that night go into the committee of supply.Mr. Huskisson
1166 said, he was one of those who did not object to the publication of lists; but he must object to the introduction of such lists, with misstatements of the nature of the vote. The insinuation here was against the majority; for the minority Was described
1166Mr. Huskisson
 asked the hon. alderman, whether he had in fact visited the interior of the prison?Mr. Wilmot
 said, that the power was not to be questioned by any member, when a case of privilege was brought before them. The hon. member might submit the consideration by itself; but it was clearly disorderly to question the power on the present motion.The Speaker
 knowing perfectly well the character of the gaoler, bore testimony to his humanity and good conduct.Sir I Coffin,
 conceived, that if the noble lord had used words to the effect stated, he had afterwards, by his explanation, done away the impression which they had made. After all, as the first indiscretion had been on the part of the noble lord and then an indiscretion on the part of some other hon. member who put the title to the minority, he thought it would be advisable to let the matter rest.Sir M. W. Ridley
 expressed a hope, that as the publication alluded to did not contain any direct censure upon the House, or upon the majority alluded to, the hon. gentleman would have the liberality to withdraw his motion.Sir R. Wilson
 in seconding the amendment, coincided with his hon. friend in his views of general retrenchment, but deprecated any sudden diminution of the military force of the country.Sir R. Wilson,
1176 said, that though he sincerely wished the whole of the econo-
1176Sir J. Newport
 said, that the noble lord had used words with respect to the presentation of petitions, which at first struck him as bearing the construction put upon thorn, but the noble lord had afterwards qualified them. As well as he could recollect the words of the noble lord, they were these—"I would really request gentlemen to admonish those who bring them petitions, not to burthen the House with them in the manner they do." As to what had been contended that this House was not the proper tribunal for hearing complaints relative to the administration of justice, he declared, that if a petition were offered to him to-morrow, complaining, of the conduct of a court of justice, he should feel it his duty to present it: for to what purpose was a committee of justice appointed, hut to enable the people to bring before that House such grievances as they might suffer from malversation in the administration of justice?Sir J. Newport
1175 said, that if he really could think the hon. gentleman serious in pressing his motion in the shape in which lie had put it, he should be disposed to enter more fully into reply than he was now about to do; but, as he rather thought the motion was intended to record upon the Journals the opinions which he held, he did not mean to enter at length into the merits of the questions which the motion involved. If the hon. gentleman was serious in meaning to stop the whole supplies for the service of the country, until all the great questions to which he had referred were satisfactorily adjusted, then, indeed, the motion was a plain indi-
1175Lord Palmerston
1187 before he gave his vote upon the question, wished to know what was the object of the hon. member in submitting his resolution to the House.
1187Lord Castlereagh,
1203lllllllll1202lllllllll1201l1200l1199 said, that although the particular details given on a former night by his hon. friend (Mr. Hume) might in particular instances be incorrect, they were perfectly true in substance. It was not his intention to follow the noble lord
1203lllllllll1202lllllllll1201l1200l1199Colonel Davies
 agreed with his hon. fiend (Mr. Dawson) in thinking that Ireland was at present in a state of tranquillity. He rejoiced to hear this admission, because he recollected that some months ago his hon. friend had, in prophetic tones, anticipated a very different result, and had pointed his severest shafts at him because he had presumed to express a hope that Ireland would continue in a tranquil state. He might therefore appeal to his hon. friend to reconcile this apparent inconsistency of conduct; but passing that by, he hailed the concession with pleasure. He could assure the House that he was as anxious as his hon. friend could be to reduce the military force kept up in Ireland, and to recede from a system which in that country had been pursued to too great an extent. That reduction, however, must be gradual; and the hon. gentlemen, if they reflected on the various duties which the military had to perform in that country, would see the impossibility of fixing on a definite number of men, from which the government was not to have the power of receding.Mr. C. Grant
 called upon those gentlemen who were termed the neutral party, and who were constantly professing themselves the advocates of retrenchment, to support those professions by their votes on this occasion.Mr. Bernal
1210 declared that it was impossible the country could support such an establishment as they were now called on to agree to. He would say, and say it boldly, that the country could not afford to pay the taxes which would be required to maintain such an establishment, and the whole country was of the same opinion. The noble lord told them it was impossible to return to the standard of, 1792, but what said their own finance committee of 1817? In that opinion he concurred, and he should therefore vote for the reduction of 10,000 men from the present estimates. He proposed a return to the standard of 1792, because we had now on foot a large force which was not then in existence, and which rendered: unnecessary so large an establishment of; regular forces. The yeomanry cavalry, volunteers, marines, and artillery, in this country and Ireland, amounted to 168,000 men and upwards. These, in addition to a regular force on the scale of 1792, was sufficient to take away from the minds of the most timid any apprehension for the security of the country. A considerable reduction of expense might be effected by pulling down the useless fortifications which had been erected in different parts of the country. The noble lord talked of
1210Mr. Bennet
1212lllll1211 said, that with respect to the military grounds of the question, it appeared that the hon. gentlemen opposite did not object to the scale proposed for our foreign possessions, but only to the magnitude of the home establishment. All questions of this nature must be examined with a view to the exigencies of our situation; but he did not agree in opinion with the gallant officer, that there was any thing in the affairs of Naples which could require the addition of a single man to our establishment, and he expressly disclaimed any view of that nature. Government had not been influenced in the slightest degree by any regard to the aspect of affairs in that quarter in proposing the present estimates. With respect to the reduction of our forces at home, he would remind the House, that the establishment of last year was thought necessary to preserve the tranquillity of the country, and he must say he thought it would be highly imprudent to reduce the force all at once below the scale at which it stood before that necessity existed. They had reduced the amount which was on that occasion added to the scale; and that he contended was as rapid a reduction as was prudent;
1212lllll1211Lord Castlereagh
1213lll said, that when the force was infinitely greater than it was at present, and reductions were pressed by himself and others, the noble lord then as now, "with honeyed words framed to make senates false," said, that if they took away any part of it, the duty of the country could not be done. He was as far from wishing to practise any delusion on the country as the noble lord himself, and he would not so insult the good sense of the people of the country as to offer to them any statements which he would not seriously propose to that House; but, if the people continued to place any confidence in the statements and arguments of the noble lord, he should feel much surprised. He denied that the noble secretary at war opened his estimates by stating a reduction of 707,0001213lllMr. Calcraft
1215llll1214 said, that it was not his intention to delay the committee by any lengthened observation, but, having been so personally alluded to by the noble lord,
1215llll1214Mr. Maberly
1204ll felt anxious to record the reasons which induced him to entertain the opinion which he was about to state to the House, and which would prove to gentlemen opposite, that it was possible to support the general policy of ministers, and yet to be friendly to economy. During the five years in which he had had the honour of sitting in that House, he had, with very few exceptions, supported the measures of ministers, from a conscientious conviction that they were the best that could be adopted for preserving the peace and security of the country. He, however, differed from them on the subject of our military establishment. At a period, when distress faith stared them in the face, it would be practising worse than a delusion to deny that economy, in the strictest sense of the word, was not imperatively necessary. Not only did he conceive economy necessary, but he would say, that the most rigid parsimony alone could save the country. He for one thought the sum of 6,643,9681204llMr. G. Dawson
1208vide12071206l1205l said, he had come down to the House strongly impressed with the arguments urged on a former evening by the hon. member for Aberdeen. Those impressions had not been at all weakened by any thing which he had heard since he entered the House. Indeed it was painful to come down and listen to the plausible but empty apologies which were annually made for keeping up the expenditure of the country. The noble lord had stated, with much self-gratulation, that the estimates of this year fell short of last year's charge by 145,0001208vide12071206l1205lMr. J. Macdonald
11861185 on presenting a Petition against the Claims of the Catholics, from the parish of St. Dunstan's, London, said, that having been unable to attend the late debates upon this subject, he would briefly mention some of his reasons for concurring with the present petition. With all possible respect for the motives of those who supported the resolutions, he conceived them to be grounded on mistaken principles. It was not because Roman Catholics held the doctrines of transubstantiation, the adoration of the Virgin Mary, and the sacrifice of the mass, &c. that our ancestors excluded them from high offices and seats in parliament; but on account of! their intolerant spirit in civil and religious
11861185Mr. Butterworth,
lll stated, that he had on a former night submitted certain resolutions to the House, but the forms of the House prevented them from being entered on the Journals, and he was anxious that his opinion on this subject should be put upon record. He would therefore offer them now, without any further observation than that they contained only matters of fact, and pledged the House to no immediate extent of reduction, but only to the general principle of economy. He would move, "That there were in the service of Great Britain and Ireland in 1792 (exclusive of the regular cavalry and infantry) 25,757 troops; namely, 3,730 of royal artillery, 4,425 of the royal marines, and 17,602 of disembodied militia; and in 1821 (exclusive of regular cavalry and infantry) the number of 125,492 troops; namely, 7,872 engineers and artillery, 8,000 royal marines, 51,998 disembodied militia, and 57,622 yeomanry cavalry and volunteer infantry, being in number a larger force by 132,367 men, available for purposes of government in the year 1821, than the government had in 1792; that the supplies for the expense of the military establishment of Great Britain and Ireland in 1792 were 2,331,149lllMr. Hume
 wished the noble lord to consider, that he moved this resolution in the way of an instruction to the committee, or as a principle laid down upon which the committee should act. And of what use could such a resolution be, after the committee was appointed? The noble secretary at war ought to assign a reason why his proposition should not be adopted; and if he could assign no reason, the House ought to adopt it.Mr. Hume
1189 rose to explain. With regard to the blunder which he was said to have committed in reckoning the number of troops employed in 1792 at 48,474 men instead of 45,274 men, he had told the noble lord that he had taken the full estimates of the year, though he knew that the number of effective men was not so great as was stated therein. It was therefore too much for the noble lord to charge him with inaccuracy upon that point. As to the number of irregular troops for the year 1821, which he had calculated at 125,492 men, he must likewise say that if the noble lord would add up the items, he would find the difference between the numbers employed in 1792 and 1821 to be what he had stated. He likewise maintained that he had correctly stated the number of militia embodied in 1792; and that the money accounts to which he had referred, were to be found in the 47th volume of their journals, just as he had inserted them in his resolutions. With regard to another observation of the noble secretary, he begged leave to assert that he had drawn up the resolutions himself, and had afterwards submitted them
1189Mr. Hume
 said, that he had compared the estimates of December, 1792, with the estimates of Dec. 1802.Mr. Hume
 observed, that the time he had mentioned was not 5, but 15 or 20 years.Mr. Hume
ll insisted, that his noble friend, when he opened the estimates, had stated, that reductions were made to the amount of 707,000llMr. Huskisson
1209 remarked upon the in-
1209Sir H. Vivian
l1198 was ready to take it so, but still it was a monstrous proposition whether taken at 5, 15, or even 25 years. At the same time, the secretary at war was invested with a discretion on the sub-
l1198Lord Palmerston
l1197 If so, it only showed that the hon. gentleman was wrong in both cases. But although the estimate of 1803 was made out as low as had been mentioned, yet it never had been carried into effect; for the war breaking out, the reduction proposed was found impracticable. Unless, then, the House was prepared to say, that the country must go back to the military system, or rather no system, of 1792, it was nothing for the hon. gentleman to get up and assert that such and such was the expense of the staff at that date. No man, competently informed, would really wish to see the army reduced to the state it held in 1792. Some persons might think we ought to have no army at all:
l1197Lord Palmerston.
llllll1196ll1195119411931192lllllllllllllllll1191llllllllllllllll1190lll proceeded to open the estimates for the military service of the ensuing year. He began by observing that it was not his intention to trespass on the attention of the House, further than to draw a general outline of the proposed service. There were two principal points which offered themselves as characteristic of the estimates which he was now about to unfold, and these were a reduction of establishments and a diminution of expense. Wherever an increase of expense appeared on some particular head, it was to be ascribed to the operation of some fixed and certain rule laid down by parliament itself, and entirely withdrawn from the control of the executive government. He should endeavour to explain to the committee the mode in which these reductions had been brought about, and the principles observed in accomplishing them. One of the chief branches of our military force to which the operation had been applied was that known by the name of veteran battalions, a force raised at a period when the country was threatened with imminent danger, and which the government therefore stood pledged to lay down whenever the altered state of the country should permit them to do so. It would be found that government had been faithful to its pledge. As compared with the force and military expenditure of last year, the estimates would discover a reduction of upwards of 9,000 men, and a saving of 145,000llllll1196ll1195119411931192lllllllllllllllll1191llllllllllllllll1190lllLord Palmerston
1188 said, it was not his intention to go at any length into the argument of the hon. member, because it would be improper to enter into a discussion of it before the consideration of the army estimates. With respect to any reductions which it might be proper to make in them, the proper time for proposing them would be in the committee of supply; and as to the hon. gentleman's resolutions of fact, he must assert that that name could not be truly given to them. In summing up the number of men employed in 1792, he had summed up 3,200 men twice over. In the resolution now proposed, he had stated the number of troops in service, exclusive of the regular cavalry and infantry, to be 25,757, in which he included 17,602 of disembodied militia. Now, he had not included in his list 19,000 militia-men, who were afterwards embodied. The hon. member had likewise said that in 1821 the force available to government was greater by 132,367 men than it was in 1792; but if he would cast up his own totals, he would discover that the difference did not amount by some thousands to the numbers which he had mentioned. The hon. member was not more exact as to his money accounts. He had excluded from them all the charges for the disembodied militia, and was wrong in certain items, which the noble lord proceeded to point out. Thus he was incorrect both in his historical and arithmetical facts. He recollected that he
1188Lord Palmerston
12251224l.,l.12231222bonâ fide1221l.l.l.l.l.1220 (Bucks) rose to make his promised motion. In stating his reasons for proposing to institute an inquiry into our claims upon Austria, the hon. member spoke to the following effect:—I shall, in the first instance, recall to your memory, that in 1794, application was made by the court of Vienna, to the monied interest of this country, to raise a loan for the purpose of carrying on the war, and that the
12251224l.,l.12231222bonâ fide1221l.l.l.l.l.1220Mr. Robert Smith
l.l.l.1226 said, he had no intention to oppose the motion. He could not, however, help remarking, that the hon. member had not acted altogether fairly in stating the debt due from the
l.l.l.1226Lord Castlereagh
l. explained what he had said; that, in 1795, when the Cape fell into our hands, general Craig who acted as governor, stated to the government that he had found no salary fixed for him, but that he had appropriated 3,000l.Sir R. Fergusson
1241l.l. said, he would repeat his statement, that sir J. Craig being governor of the Cape in 1796, and finding that no allowance was made to him by government, did assign to himself 3,0001241l.l.Sir R. Fergusson
l.1242 vindicated the British cavalry against the imputations cast upon that corps by the gallant general, by quoting the opinion expressed by Buonaparte to a friend of his at St. Helena, with respect to the merits of this portion of our force. This opinion, from an authority which he presumed the gallant general was not disposed to disrespect, was peculiarly favourable to the conduct of the Scotch Greys, the Household troops, and to the Hussars also; at the battle of Waterloo, the latter having broken through a solid square of French infantry, while the French cavalry had never been able to make a breach in any similar square of the infantry of England. Yet the gallant general would have our hussars reduced, if not done away with, from considerations of economy. But it was most extraordinary to what excesses some gentlemen would urge government to go, under the profession of economy. One gentleman, indeed, seriously proposed to give up that great feather in our cap, Gibraltar, because, truly, we were unable to pay the expense of keeping it. But, whatever might be our national distress, he trusted that this great fortress would never be given up. The hon. member here took
l.1242Colonel Wood
1244 said, he did not rise for the purpose of entering at length into the details of the question, but for the purpose of making a few observations upon what had been urged by those who supported the amendment. According to the returns it appeared that, exclusive of India, we had a force of 70,350 men, rank and file. Supposing that from this number 10,000 were to be deducted, there would remain 60,350 men. Allowing the army deficiencies to be 5,000 men, there would remain an effective force of 55,350 men for the home and colonial service. I Deduct from this the number of men ne-
1244Lord Castlereagh
 rose solely for the purpose of correcting the palpable mistatements of the noble lord. He was surprised the noble lord could risk his credit upon assertions directly in the face of the returns. The Army Estimates proposed 81,000 men; from this number it was proposed that 10,000 men should be reduced, leaving 71,000 men to do the duty of the country. The noble lord had next gone to the exploded story about reliefs. Did not the noble lord take the dépâts of foreign stations into account? These depots amounted a short time ago to 5,500 men. As to India, it was out of the question, as the India Company were annually raising recruits in this country.Mr. Calcraft
 said, that when he stated the numbers of the original proposition to be 71,000, he had distinctly said rank and file, and was perfectly aware that, with the officers, it would amount to 81,000.Lord Castlereagh
 seconded the motion. As a proof of the deficiency of the present law, he mentioned that in the parish of St. George, Hanover-square, there were not less than 18 officers for the purpose of detecting vagrants, and in the last year they apprehended only 23, while 6 officers belonging to the Mendicity Society, who had other parishes besides that to look to, had apprehended in that parish alone, 273 vagrants in the last year.Mr. Harbord
l,l.1239 observed, that even in
l,l.1239Mr. Goulburn
l.1238 said, that the objections of the gentlemen opposite seemed to be particularly directed to the expenditure for the colonies in the Mediterranean and St. Helena. This branch of the expenditure had certainly been increased since 1792, and necessarily so, from the additional possessions in the Mediterranean which the country had since that period to maintain. They had now Malta in addition to Gibraltar. In 1792, there were 3,335 rank and file for the garrison of Gibraltar, and there were now only 7,000 for Gibraltar, Malta, and the Ionian Islands; intact, the whole of the Mediterranean. This addition, considering the nature of the service, was any thing rather than excessive. The other station objected to was that of St. Helena. Inspecting that island, he had only to call their attention to the great importance of the object of that garrison. If, in guarding the individual there placed, any overcaution was incurred, he thought, considering the importance of that trust, it ought not to be rigidly scrutinized or complained of. The amount of the force required at St. Helena arose from the nature of the confinement of the individual, and to avoid the necessity of any thing like personal rigour while keeping him in safe custody. He was permitted, if he pleased, to traverse the whole island, and this indul-
l.1238Mr. Goulburn
dd.d.:d.d.1237d.1236l. said, the system of the guards had been inquired into by the committee of 1817, who had recommended no change. If they were remodelled, without the additional pay to which the men were entitled by the terms of their enlistment, they would not be more expensive than the regiments of the line, except by 250dd.d.:d.d.1237d.1236l.Sir H. Hardinge
l.l.12291228 rose, to redeem the pledge which he had given on a former evening, to propose a reduction of 10,000 men in our military establishment. Feeling that the discussion of the other night was most conclusive in support of the proposition with which he should conclude he would confine himself to a very few words upon the subject. It was his firm conviction, that the case on the other side of the House, even as it had been stated and argued by the ministers themselves, would not justify the House in voting a larger force than 60,000 men. That would leave 25,000 men for the colonies and 35,000 for home service, exclusive of the artillery and marines, which being estimated at 5,000, would make the whole number 65,000 men. What apology was there then for voting any number of men larger than that amount? None. But members on his side of the House felt that it was necessary to look at what was immediately practicable as well as at what was desirable; and it was on that consideration alone that he was induced to limit the reduction to 10,000 men. In moving this amendment, he by no means intended to fetter the discretion of his majesty's government as to the points in which the reduction should take place; whether in the new colonies, or in the old colonies, in Ireland or in England; or proportionally in all. On that subject they would judge for themselves. But he hoped the committee would concur with him in thinking that the time had arrived when it was their duty to endeavour to effect a real reduction of every useless expenditure. The only mode in which it was possible to meet the endless demands upon the purse or the country of a military nature was, to come to some distinct determination that the House would provide for a certain amount of force, and no more. Lest, however, any gentleman should entertain apprehensions that by acceding to the amendment, the executive government would, be stripped of the force
l.l.12291228Mr. J. Macdonald
1245 briefly recapitulated the principal features of his opening speech; after which, he declared, that still retaining the opinion that a force of 100,000 men, after the reduction should be made that he contemplated, would be available to ministers at the shortest notice, he did consider that so strong and
1245Mr. Macdonald
prima facie,1240 said, that looking at the force demanded for the new colonies—looking at the continued mis-government of Ireland, which made it necessary to maintain a greater force there than was formerly called for—allowing for these, and looking at the situation of the country, it appeared to him that there was an excess over the establishment of 1792, of 21,000 men. He contended, that where a force of 42,000 men had been found
prima facie,1240Mr. J. P. Grant
l.1235l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.:l.,12341233l.l.l.l.l.d.l.l.l.l.1232l.l.l.ad captandum.l.1231 said, that although he would not give up the Ionian Islands, he would be for making them pay for their own protection. A gallant general had declared that he was one of the noble lord's best friends. He admitted it. If the noble lord would reduce the expenditure of the country to the rate which he would point out, the noble lord would place himself in a situation stronger than that of any preceding minister, and one whence it would be impracticable to dislodge him. If the gallant general, however, alluded to the proceedings of the other evening, he could not allow that his deduction was a fair one. It should be recollected, that to those proceedings there were two parties. Which was the resisting party? That of which the gallant general made one. Which was the reasonable party? That which he (Mr. Hume) had joined. Could any one deny that it was reasonable that men should retire to their beds at one o'clock in the morning? The party, therefore, which wished to put off entering into an important discussion at one o'clock in the morning, was the reasonable party. The party which was desirous to vote away three or four millions of the public money after one o'clock in the morning, was the unreasonable party. The gallant general had said the other evening, "Can you think of reducing the military force of the country, at the present moment, to the level at which it was in 1792 and 1817, when every thing was perfectly tranquil? in the present state of Italy you must keep up a force which may enable you to meet any demand that may occur." The noble lord opposite, however, had said, that it was the intention of government to remain perfectly neutral with respect to Italy; and he must prefer the authority of the noble lord to that of the gallant general. The gallant general talked of the tranquillity of 1792. If he would look back to that period, and to the measures then proposed by Mr. Pitt, the gallant general would find that it was not so tranquil as he supposed.—The noble secretary at war had maintained, that a principal reason for keeping up the proposed force was for the defence of the colonies. Now, he (Mr. H.) and the hon. member for Wareham, had the other night contended, that the household troops might be reduced;
l.1235l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.:l.,12341233l.l.l.l.l.d.l.l.l.l.1232l.l.l.ad captandum.l.1231Mr. Hume
1230 supported the amendment. There were three reductions of considerable magnitude, which, in his opinion, might be advantageously made. In the first place, he thought we might very beneficially divest ourselves of Gibraltar, which cost us half a million annually in peace, and double that amount in war. Gibraltar had no harbour; it did not command the entrance of the Mediterranean, and he was persuaded that we should be much better without it. In the second place, he thought we might save a very considerable expense, by getting rid of all connection whatever with the Ionian Isles. In the third place, he thought that we
1230Mr. N. Calvert
 said, he would support the amendment, because the distress of the nation was great, and he saw no prospect of its being relieved by the removal of any of the taxes. While the public expenditure exceeded the public income, and taxation was consequently oppressive, it was impossible that the population of the country could be contented and happy. Great Britain had a yeomanry force of 35,000 men, and with these he conceived that a small regular force, merely for the purpose of supplying reliefs to the troops on foreign stations, was sufficient. In the number of regulars employed in the colonies, a great reduction might also be made by means of a force analogous to our yeomanry and militia. This system had been tried in the West Indies, and he saw no reason why it might not be extended to our other colonies.Mr. Evans
l. intended to support the reduction of the army; but he would agree to vote for the larger number of men, if ministers would pledge themselves to a saving on the whole military expenditure, equal to the maintenance of 10,000 men. This would be a saving of 300,000l.Sir F. Blake
s.s.s.l.s.s.,1219s.l.12181217l.l.l. rose pursuant to the notice which he had given respecting the Vagrant Laws. The subject, he observed, was of very considerable importance, whether considered in a moral or pecuniary point of view. It was notorious that the county rates had of late years increased to a very great extent in every part of the kingdom, and it was equally notorious that the great burthen of them fell upon the already distressed agriculturists; for, by several decisions in the courts of law, it seemed now settled, that money lent on interest on mortgage, or vested in the funds, was not liable to poor or county rates. Among other items by which the latter had been considerably increased, was that of the passing and maintaining of vagrants. To show how this branch had increased, he would mention only one fact. In the very able work on Indigence, published by that enlightened and accurate magistrate, the late Mr. Colquhoun, it appeared that the expense incurred for passing vagrants in the year 1806 was 15,000s.s.s.l.s.s.,1219s.l.12181217l.l.l.Mr. Chetwynd
 opposed the motion. He considered it to be impossible to keep up the garrisons abroad if so large a reduction were agreed to. The hon. member then entered into some details to prove his proposition and contended that if only 5,000 men were kept for reliefs, the troops would be nine years abroad and only three at home. Besides, if we had a squabble with a foreign power, we could vindicate our honour better by interfering with an effective army, than by merely sending our navy against it. Alluding to what had fallen from the hon. member for Aberdeen on a former night, he said that he was a sincere supporter of the noble lord's administration, and added that if the hon. member continued his present line of conduct, he would increase the number of the noble lord's friends, not only in, but out of the House.Sir H. Vivian
1243l. said, he had understood his gallant friend merely to say that our light cavalry were rendered less efficient on foreign service by the smallness of the horses on which they were mounted. In that opinion he concurred, and he thought that the light cavalry of this country was not a description of force that ought to be sent abroad. With regard to the Cape, he thought that the possession of it in time of peace was no benefit to England in a commercial point of view. But, even if it was to be retained, he was convinced that the British force stationed there at present was by far too considerable; 1,200 infantry and 300 cavalry could protect it just as effectually as the present force. He had also reason to believe that the governor of that fort was in the receipt of an enormous sum: he knew not what the present emoluments of the office were, but for several years they had been returned at 18,0001243l.Sir R. Wilson
 protested against the House being bound by what had occurred in another place in 1817. Besides, there was all the difference in the world between the circumstances in which Austria was placed in 1817 and those in which she stood at present. Austria was then avowedly in a state of great pecuniary embarrassment; but she had since promulgated her ability to make good all her engagements. The principles of the self-called Holy Alliance ought to teach the powers who were parties to it, that one of their first duties was to keep, faith with their creditors.Sir J. Newport
, in allusion to the men necessary for reliefs, stated, that at this moment there were 1,900 troops on their pa>sage home from foreign stations, and 2,500 going out. This was a practical illustration of the arguments he had laid down to prove the necessity of allowing men for reliefs. The non-effectives at the present time also amounted to 3,000, and recruits 2,000, making upon the whole 9,000 men unfit for duty. It had been argued, that the militia might be called in aid of the public service, but every man who had read the Militia act, must know, that the militia could only be called out by proclamation.Lord Palmerston
1247 said, it was with great reluctance that he, at any time, made a complaint of a breach of the privileges of that House. He was, however, induced to rise, in consequence of paragraphs of a most gross nature which had appeared in The Morning Post. An article which appeared in that paper of yesterday, libelled his hon. friend (Mr. Creevey), and all those who had acted with him the other night, in terms of the most unwarrantable nature, representing them as Jacobins, and people whose only object was to overturn the constitution. Today this was followed up by a libel of a different character, in the shape of a letter signed "An Englishman." The writer of this letter accused his hon. friend, by innuendo, of a species of cowardice, in a transaction which had occurred betwixt him and an hon. baronet (sir G. Warrender). With respect to that transaction, he had to state, that he was the person consulted by his hon. friend; and if there was any dereliction of duty, or any point of honor unsatisfied on that occasion, it was he himself who was dishonored. As soon as he had had an interview with the noble lord opposite (lord Binning), who acted for the hon. baronet, he had no further communication with his hon. friend till the final arrangement of the affair; and he would assert, that a more base, false, or malicious libel never was inserted in any paper, than that of which he now complained. In consequence of some words which were, dropped in the course of debate by the hon. baronet, seeming to reflect on his, hon. friend, he had applied to the hon. baronet for an explanation. An explanation did eventually take place of a nature the most satisfactory. A similar, libel had appeared in a Sunday paper, called "John Bull." As to that paper, he considered it a stain upon the public
1247Sir R. Fergusson
 assured the gallant general, that he most readily complied with his call. He participated strongly with him in opinion, that matters of this sort, when once concluded, ought never to be disturbed. He had no hesitation in saying, that there was nothing connected with the transaction which was not perfectly honorable to both parties.Lord Binning
1253 said, that the troops had not been kept in Carlisle for the purpose of interfering with the election. The cavalry had been withdrawn and sent to a town in the neighbourhood; but sir John Byng, not knowing how to dispose of the infantry, had ordered the Castle to be shut upon them during the election. This order had been complied with, and no soldiers would have been allowed to go beyond the gates, unless they had been called for by the civil power. Though the law prohibited the presence of troops at elections, yet it recognized, and committees of that House had acknowledged, the interference of the military to protect the privileges of electors. The commanding officer, in this case, had brought out the troops at the request of three magistrates, after the riot act had been read. The three magistrates had called upon the officer to recall the cavalry who had been sent out of town; but the officer refused to do so without the order of the mayor; and the mayor having declined to order it, the cavalry were directed not to come. It was after the election that the two companies had been called out to quell a riot, after great care had been taken that there should be no military in the town during the election. It was plain that there was a very great riot. ["No riot whatever," from Mr. James.] Certainly it might be a question of privilege, but he was sure that it would be found that neither the magistrates nor the government wished to excite an unfounded alarm to justify the use of the military. If there was no cause for the alarm, upon which the magistrates called out the military, they must have acted erroneously; but he was convinced they had no designs hostile to the free exercise of the right of election. If they wished to overawe the freemen of Carlisle, they would have called out the military before or during the time of the election; but it appeared that the troops were not sent for until the polling was over, at least for that evening. However
1253Lord Castlereagh
 maintained that there had been a most malignant riot, calling for the interference of the military power to quell it, which military power was not introduced into the town until after the close of the election. The inquiries he had made led him to the conclusion that the magistrates had done no more than their duty. No case had been made out against them, and he entirely denied that the military had been resorted to with a view of overawing the voters and influencing the election. He would therefore move the previous question.Lord Lowther
1256 said, he had never heard any question in which the clearest privileges of the House and the most valuable rights of the constituent body were implicated, treated, in the manner in which the present question had been treated by the right hon. gentleman who had spoken last. He was sorry that there should be any member in that House so lost to the love of liberty, so regardless of the privileges of that House, and so neglectful of the dearest rights of the subject, as that right hon. gentleman was on his own showing. The right hon. gentleman had said, that this complaint was now stale. Stale! A breach of the privilege of parliament, an interference of the military
1256Mr. Calcraft
spolia opima said, that a noble lord had declared that there never was a more malignant riot than at the election for Carlisle. Now he could assure the House, that he, for one, had seen a more malignant riot, and that at the noble lord's last election. He had there seen a slave dealer from Liverpool heading a body of bludgeon-men whom the noble lord kept in pay, and had seldom been more gratified than on seeing them routed and deprived of their spolia opimaMr. Bennet
1257 observed, that it was easy to call special constables bludgeon-
1257Lord Lowther
 said, that finding there was a doubt on the point whether the military had been called in before or after the close of the poll, he certainly felt no longer any disposition to resist inquiry on the subject.Lord Castlereagh
 maintained, that there had been a great riot on the occasion in question, of which fact, no less than seven affidavits had been made, and that it was on that ground that the magistrates had issued orders for the troops to interfere.Sir J. Graham
1259 said, he conceived the guards to be the most expensive force that the country could be called upon to maintain. They had become a sort of military police, and he was at a loss, to conceive what reason could be assigned for stationing a subaltern's guard at the West-India Docks, a Serjeant's guard at the British Museum, or a corporal's guard at so many different posts in every direction. They might be very proper at the Tower; but certainly a commercial body, like the West-India Dock company, were capable of protecting their own property.
1259Mr. Bernal
1255***1254 observed, that the present was a subject which the House always regarded with the greatest jealousy. Unquestionably, that House was the tribunal before which all complaints of an infringement of the rights of the people, as respected the election of their representatives, ought to be brought. To call in the military during an election was an infringement of those rights, which nothing
1255***1254Mr. Wynn
 said, that as the chief objection to reduction had been the necessity of reliefs for foreign garrisons, he should show that the proposed reductions could be made without taking from the troops applicable to reliefs. The old colonies had now 17,000 men. In 1787, they had 12,245, and in the latter half of 1792, 13,277. If the garrisons of those colonies were reduced to the standard of 1787, 4,700; if to that of 1792, 3,700 men might be reduced. With respect to the force at St. Helena, he thought that every purpose of safe detention might be accomplished with one-half the garrison now maintained. One regiment of cavalry might, lie thought, be reduced. He challenged any professional man to defend the maintenance of the waggon train, which was altogether useless. He thought the reduction proposed in the amendment could be safely carried into effect.Colonel Davies
, of Galway, said, that as the hon. member for Aberdeen, who might be called the leader of the Opposition, had proposed to reduce the pay of the soldier to one-half, would he get his party to pledge themselves to that measure?Mr. Martin
 considered the exertions of the hon. member for Aberdeen to redound as much to his own credit, as they would ultimately prove of advantage to the country. When the House had been voting an extravagant estimate on an impoverished country, he did not envy the feelings of the hon. member, who had endeavoured to turn into ridicule the efforts of those who exerted themselves to lessen the burthens of the people. He was proud of being one of those who had joined in those efforts: he acknowledged no leader: he had looked at the distresses of the people, the state of the finances, and the policy of the country, and he declared, as a man of honour, that he believed the vote to be extravagant and unnecessary.Mr. Hutchinson
1262 said, that had he been present last night he should certainly have voted for the reduction of 5,000. In 1816 he had enforced the necessity of reducing the estimates so far as it was practicable to the scale of 1792. In the committee of finance, in 1817 he had pressed the same necessity, from a
1262Mr. Bankes
in toto, or moved.l.l. agreed in the principle of the bill, because he conceived it was not proper that the superior courts should be occupied in deciding causes, where the property in dispute, whether money or chattels, was of trifling value. It was also a great hardship on the suitor, who frequently lost 30in toto, or moved.l.l.Mr. Lockhart
1265 hoped the House would not agree to the suggestion of His hon. friend of throwing the business in ques-
1265Mr. F. Palmer
 conceived it necessary that some change should be made in the constitution of the county courts. The poor had great reason to complain of the impositions practised on them by the country attornies under the present system. As to the quarter sessions, they had already sufficient business; and if the House, by adopting the suggestion of the hon. gentleman, should overburthen the country magistrates, the consequence would be, that no gentleman would accept the office, and the country would be obliged to have recourse to that greatest of all curses, a stipendiary magistracy. At the same time, in the present distressed state of the people, he could not consent to any additional burthens on the county-rates, and therefore he should oppose that part of the bill which proposed to provide salaries for the judges by the imposition of a new rate.Mr. Chetwynd
l.,l. had no hesitation in saying, that he thought the plan of the noble lord extremely objectionable. It went to establish a perfectly novel jurisdiction, and one that would be attended with heavy expense. The noble lord proposed to establish no fewer than 80 tribunals, with a barrister at the head of each. The salaries of these judges, considering that their time was likely to be occupied exclusively by the business of their courts, could not be averaged at less than 500l.,l.The Attorney General
 said, that as the opinion of the hon. and learned member was unfavourable to the bill, he feared there was little chance of its ultimate success; but he would press it to a second reading, in the hope that he should be able to alter the bill so as to render it free from objection.Lord Althorp
d.l. observed, that wheat being at 14d.l.Alderman C. Smith
onus probands1258 rose, to move for the appointment of a select committee to take into consideration the existing regulations relative to the making and the sale of Bread, with a view to repeal the same. When it was considered that two-thirds of the population of the empire lived almost entirely on bread, it behoved the House to see that they were supplied with it at the cheapest possible rate, of the best possible description, and in just measure. That was not now the case. The existing law on the subject was pernicious in its tendency, inasmuch as it held forth to the poor the expectation of a protection which it did not realise, and prevented them from using that caution to which they would otherwise resort. He had referred to all the acts on the subject which had passed during the last 553 years. He would trouble the House, however, only with the general result which he had drawn from those acts. All that he now felt it his duty to do was, to point out the defects of the law as it existed. With regard to the remedy, some might think that there ought to be no legislative interference at all; others might be of opinion that this or that provision would be desirable. He intended to move for the repeal of the 59th of Geo. 3rd, c. 36, containing a clause which enacted, that in all cases of complaint against bakers, the complaint should be made within 24 hours after the bread was made, and should be supported before the magistrate by one
onus probands1258Mr. Harbord
 observed, that he had, heard many complaints of the futility of the law in its present state. He was inclined to think that unrestricted competition would afford the public, greater security than any legislative enactment, but was of opinion, at the same time, that there should either be an entire repeal of the law, or that bread should in future be sold by weight.Mr. Littleton
 contended, that to assimilate the guards to regiments of the line would considerably add to the present expense.Sir H. Hardinge
 observed, that this was not a question between certain individuals of the town of Carlisle, but one which affected the privileges of that House and the rights of all the people. He maintained that there had been no riot, and not even as much blood shed as would cover the point of a pin. If there had been any riot, some person, he should suppose, must have been indicted by the magistrates in justification of their own conduct. But was that the case? One man, who asked the magistrates whether the Riot act was read, had, indeed, been committed, but had not been prosecuted. They had, indeed, wished to turn him out of the prison without any further proceedings against him; but the man had refused to go, stating that a gross violation of the law had been committed in his case, and that he would not stir, unless he was discharged by law. He was of opinion that if the House failed to notice the conduct of the magistrates, there never could be a case in which it could again interfere in vindication of its privileges. He should certainly vote for inquiry; and thought that if the magistrates were convinced of the rectitude of their conduct, they, more than any other persons, ought to wish it to be instituted.Mr. Curwen
 said, the House acted with regard to the public expenditure, like a prodigal, who first determined to spend a certain sum, and then proceeded to consider how he should get it. He objected to the report being brought up upon these principles, and maintained, that the committee was falsely termed a committee of ways and means. They did not consider the real ways and means by which the country might meet the expenditure, but merely recommended a given service to be supported by a given expenditure without estimating the means of the country. How could he tell that the repeal of the last malt duties, and of the husbandry horse-tax, might not be carried, and a deficiency consequently arise in the ways and means of the country to support the proposed expenditure?Mr. Lockhart
 said, he was under the necessity of moving, by way of amendment, that the number, instead of being 81,468 should be 71,468 men. He would take that opportunity of clearing himself, from the charge of having cast an imputation upon the guards. It was true he had said that some of them were kept up more for idle parade than real utility; but he meant this as no reflection upon the men; he merely wished to impress upon the House, that if a greater number were maintained than was necessary for the wants of the country, the only ends they could serve were those of idle parade. The great object which he thought most desirable in reducing the military establishment of the country, next to the saving in point of expense, was the necessity it would impose upon the magistracy of the country to depend upon the civil rather than the military power upon civil occasions. The occurrences at Carlisle, Dublin, and other quarters, ought to be so many lessons of caution to the House how they afforded facilities, by keeping up large military establishments, for the constant calling out of the military upon public occasions. As to the reliefs for the guards, he must say that they were created by the unnecessary manner in which that branch of the force was applied; for instance, it was impossible to pass into that House without seeing soldiers stationed in the avenues: there was actually a barrack in the House of Commons. Many evil consequences besides the expense arose from this practice; the regular civil police became relaxed and ineffectual. When any popular meeting took place, the peace was to be preserved by soldiers; a message was to be sent to the lord mayor to know how many guards he wanted, for there were plenty at his service. He had no wish to trench upon the comforts of the soldier, whose pay was doubled since 1792. [A cry of "No."] It was, he repeated, doubled. In 1792, the pay was sixpence a day; it was now a shilling. This was his arithmetical calculation; and he reminded the noble lord that he promised to be a match for him in arithmetic. His object was to reduce the numbers, and not the allowances of the soldier. He concluded by proposing his amendment.Mr. Hume
 disavowed having made any proposition for taking away half the pay of the army.Mr. Hume
ld., observed, that the circumstance of the quartern loaf being now sold at 10ld.,Sir C. Burrell
12491248*** rose to bring forward his promised motion on this subject. It was a subject, he said, which involved not merely the rights of his constituents, but the rights of the British people. The fate of his motion would decide whether elections for members were or were not to be violated at the will or caprice of one or more country magistrates; whether, in fact, they were in future to be regulated at the point of the bayonet? It would be recollected that during the last session, he had presented a petition from the freemen of Carlisle, complaining of the conduct of three magistrates, who introduced a military force, when the freeholders were peaceably assembled, for the purpose of electing a member to serve in parliament. The question, it was clear, affected the very essence of the constitution: if, indeed, the constitution was not wholly to be dissolved, such conduct could not pass without reprehension. He would remind the House, that a noble lord, the member for Westmorland (lord Lowther) had stated that the charges in the petition were unfounded calumnies.12491248***Mr. James
in prospectu.prœsenticoup de main was of opinion that in the Colonies a considerable reduction might be made in the military force. All the force necessary for their defence was one of sufficient magnitude to guard them from surprise by a in prospectu.prœsenticoup de mainMr. W. Smith
 could not but think that the number of troops proposed to be kept up was considerably too great. Those who were at the head of the military establishment might be of opinion that the force called for was not more than sufficient; but, on the other hand, it was natural enough for the people, who were to defray the expense, to wish that the number proposed should be lowered. In such a state of things, the parliament ought to make itself, in some degree, responsible for voting a lower establishment than ministers themselves would like to propose. If at a future period a greater force were wanted for our internal or external security, the country would much more cheerfully respond to the call, if it were now shown that the House felt a due commiseration for the distresses of the people. The force for domestic service, especially for Ireland, appeared to him to be too great. Whether this was the case with respect to the colonies, where the superficies to be defended was so extensive, he could not say; but, looking to the entire vote, he thought the House would not perform its duty if it agreed to it without modifications.Mr. Wilberforce
 said, that the prospect before the country was sufficiently lamentable, for the reasoning of ministers was, that if there were no reduction of the army, there could be no diminution of expenditure, and consequently no reduction of taxation. The hon. member proceeded to advert to the military force kept up in Ireland, and contended, that the civil establishment in that country was not placed upon a proper footing. The great defect of the system was, that constables were appointed by the grand juries, and consequently were not sufficiently under the control of the magistrates. He was satisfied that if the civil force were placed upon a proper footing, the army in Ireland might be considerably reduced.Sir H. Parnell
125212511250 wished to make a
125212511250Sir J. Mackintosh
 denied that the case of Westminster, and the present case were parallel. In the case of Westminster, the troops were placed near the hustings before the commencement of the election, and remained there the whole time. In the case under consideration, the military had not been called in until the poll had closed [No, no!]; at least, so it was stated in the petition. This was a very stale proceeding. If the conduct of the magistrate; of Carlisle had been blameable, why was it not sooner inquired into? But was it blameable? Had there not been a considerable riot?—had not several men been knocked down, and some of their legs broken?—had not the Riot act been read three times? Were not those of the mob who remained, guilty of felony? and were not the magistrates, who acted on their own responsibility, justified in, at length, calling in the military, to put an end to that which they could not put an end to without them? But even if the magistrates were wrong, had the hon. mover taken the proper course on the occasion? Ought he not rather to have moved, that the petition should be referred to the examination of a select committee, or rather, ought not the whole business to have been submitted to the court of King's-bench? The courts of law were open to any one who had to complain either of this or of any other act of the magistracy. For his own part, he must state it as his opinion, that if the hon. member had been influenced by better feelings, or had been better advised, he would rather have taken a course very different from that which he had thought it his duty to pursue.Mr. Beckett
 opposed the motion. He said, that there was much rioting, that the civil power was quite unable to keep the peace, that the mayor was treated with the greatest contempt, that three of his own voters were so intimidated, that they thought it prudent not to give their votes at that time, and that the military were not called in until the necessity for their interference was clearly established. The hon. baronet read some letters and depositions to substantiate his positions, but so inaudibly, that a great part of the House itself could not have understood their contents.Sir P. Musgrave
 said, that the increase since 1819 consisted of the augmentation of the regiment at New South Wales, from 650 to 1,000 men, which was effected in consequence of the representation of the governor of that colony. A regiment had also been appropriated to the service of Heligoland, &c, instead of proceeding on the old system of drafting companies to those places. He called on gentlemen to mark the situation in which the country would be placed, if they only voted 70,000 rank and file, which would be the number granted, if the amendment were carried, exclusive of the veteran battalions. There were at present afloat 4,550 rank and file, a body not now available for any purpose to which the army about to be voted was applicable. There were non-effectives of the line 4,400 men. There were at the depot at the Isle of Wight 3,100 raw recruits belonging to regiments abroad. Here, then, was a total of 10,250 rank and file to be deducted from 70,000, which the gentlemen opposite proposed. So that, in fact, they were only giving to government 60,000 men disposable for all the purposes which required a military force.Lord Palmerston
12841283in toto,1282128112801279127812771276127512741273not127212711270 rose. He said, it was not then his intention to trespass long on the time of the House; indeed, after the indulgence which he had so largely experienced on a former night, it would furnish but a bad specimen of taste to go a second time into a general consideration of the question. When he took the liberty of opening his views on the question, he had described the measure as having for its primary object a great end of public justice. He had expressed a hope that it would be favourably regarded by all those whose interests it was designed to promote; and he had received great pleasure in finding, from all that had passed in the country with which he was most nearly connected, that his hopes had been more than realized; for he must take leave to say, that he never entertained the chimerical notion of being able to conciliate the approbation of all persons on such a subject. There were persons by whom that general satisfaction would be felt as a grievous calamity, who prized the religious hostility which they bore to other Christian sects and denominations as a valuable inheritance descended to them from their ancestors, and which it was incumbent on them to leave as a legacy to their children. With such persons he would not argue; they lived in a territory of their own, wholly inaccessible to any reasoning which he could employ. It was however some consolation to know that the measure, if carried, could not interrupt their happiness, but that they would rise the next morning in possession of as much comfort and security as they had ever before enjoyed, and, as he hoped,—for they were very worthy and respectable persons—they would long continue to enjoy. He must take that opportunity also of remarking, that he had never applied the term "bigotry" to the great body of Protestants with whom he had the misfortune to differ on this subject. Nothing could be more foreign from his disposition; and in truth, he felt the ut-
12841283in toto,1282128112801279127812771276127512741273not127212711270Mr. Plunkett
 said, that from the sentiments expressed by these petitioners, he would call upon the House to pause before they proceeded further with the bills now in the House, one of which went to give the Catholics what they wanted—the other to impose restraints upon them, to which they were not subjected at present. What reason could they have for thinking that these measures would satisfy the Catholics, when a petition like this was presented from them, with the name of Dr. Milner attached to it? If the bill, which the Catholics wished to pass into a law, were passed, the Protestants, he was sure, could not be satisfied, unless another bill were passed to impose such restrictions as could not be other than unpalatable to the Catholics. He could see no reason for two bills being brought in, unless he assumed that the one which the Catholics desired should be passed, was intended to be permanent, while the repeal of the other, at no distant period, was in contemplation. He had no doubt, that if these measures were passed, they would in a few years find the Catholics coming again to parliament to petition for the repeal of one of them. The loyalty and merit of the petitioners he would be the last man to deny. He had a great respect for the Catholics both of this country and of Ireland; but still he had ever thought it his duty to oppose their claims, and he would continue to do so. Granting all they desired would, in his opinion, be likely to subject the country to the same disasters which had unhappily been experienced at a former period of our history, and from which we had only relieved ourselves by means of laws—not like those now in force against the Roman Catholics, but by such as were in force fifty or sixty years ago. Of the repeal of those Taws which were no longer in force, be did not complain, but he hoped the House would not take a course that would be likely to reproduce the misery formerly experienced.Sir T. Lethbridge
12681267 said, the hon. baronet had thought proper, in some degree, to anticipate the discussion of the subject, to which the attention of the House would
12681267Mr. Plunkett
 said, he was not sensible that he had proposed any alteration in the principle of the bill. He might have reserved himself for the committee to propose his amendments, but he thought it fair and candid to apprise the House of what he intended to do. He was not aware that there was any complexity in his proposed amendments.Mr. Plunkett
1289128812871286 said, that the principle of the bill which they were now assembled to discuss, was intended to be carried to a degree which could not be approved of by those whose views of this subject, though liberal, were moderate. The principle of the measure conceded the right of admissibility to every office in the country as belonging to every person of every sect. This was a principle somewhat similar to that which was held by individuals who contended for the radical doctrines of universal suffrage and annual parliaments—doctrines which he was convinced his right hon. friend held in utter detestation. Now, he knew no state that would admit to its dearest privileges, persons who, to be consistent with themselves, must desire the destruction of an important portion of that state. The Catholic church would allow no communion with any other church: it held, that no toleration should be granted to any other church; it declared that there could be no salvation out of the pale of that church. As to a communion with a different church, it would be considered, as the pope himself had said, "like the communion between Christ and Belial." Persons professing this belief could, in his opinion, have no other desire than that the Protestant establishment should not be suffered to remain as it at present stood. The hon. gentleman who supported this bill, though their fears did not go so far as his, seemed, however, to apprehend some danger of this sort. If they did not, why were these particular
1289128812871286Mr. Bankes
12941293 said, that the question for the consideration of the House was, whether the claims of the Catholics could be granted without endangering the existing constitution. His hon. friend had
12941293Mr. Bathurst
1301doná fide13001299 said, that the hon. and learned gentleman had stated, that the exclusion of the Roman Catholics from places of civil trust and power, after having given them rank in the army and navy, was an anomaly unparalleled in the civilized world. Now, he thought, he could cite a parallel to such a case. The same arguments used by the hon. and learned gentleman had been used to William 3rd, on the subject of his exclusion of the Catholics from civil offices in the United Provinces, while at the same time they were eligible to fill the highest rank in the army. To those arguments William answered, that he admitted the anomaly, but that he thought it unfair to exclude them from offices in the army, in which they had so honourably fought; but that no danger could accrue to the state from thence so long as the government was in the hands of Protestants. But it was said, that by, concessions given in the act of 1817,
1301doná fide13001299Mr. Peel
13141313allPerhaps it was right to dissemble your love But why did you kick me down stairs?""When late I attempted your pity to move, Oh; why were you deal to my prayers?1312"And long'd to meet." —"Which, mounting, view'd each other from a far,—"Between two kindred seas,Opposuit natura?1311131013091308prœmunire1307"And gospel-light first dawn'd from Boleyn's eyes;""When love could teach a monarch to be wise,13061305130413031302 said, that, often as it had fallen to him during the time that he had been a member of that House to take part in the discussion of that most important matter, which was this night the subject of their deliberation, he had never risen to discharge his duty under greater anxiety than he felt on the present occasion. That anxiety arose, in part, from the intense conviction which he felt of the great and growing expediency of the measure then proposed to the House It arose in part also from the peculiar circumstances under which the determina-
13141313allPerhaps it was right to dissemble your love But why did you kick me down stairs?""When late I attempted your pity to move, Oh; why were you deal to my prayers?1312"And long'd to meet." —"Which, mounting, view'd each other from a far,—"Between two kindred seas,Opposuit natura?1311131013091308prœmunire1307"And gospel-light first dawn'd from Boleyn's eyes;""When love could teach a monarch to be wise,13061305130413031302Mr. Canning
 was satisfied that this question could never be set completely at rest, unless the House conceded all the Catholics required, or resolutely took their stand where they now were. All who approved the Catholic claims, were either directly, or by inference, accused of bigotry. Let the Protestant Dissenter be first raised to his proper rank in the state; and then it would be time enough to consider what ought to be done for the Catholic Dissenter.Mr. Bright
1285 said, that the bill which his right hon. friend had introduced had been printed and in circulation for a fortnight, so that the minds of members must have been made up, and they were prepared to come to a discussion upon it. But now his right hon. friend had introduced a number of alterations, of such variety and extent, that he appealed to any member who had heard the statement whether he could fully understand the bearing of it, and which at any rate they had had no opportunity of considering. He appealed with confidence to the House whether they could know in what state the bill would be after these alterations had been made? He therefore submitted to his right hon. friend's candour, whether some method should not be taken to put the House in possession of the alterations
1285Sir William Scott
1266
1266Mr. Wilberforce
129212911290 said, that it were true
129212911290Mr. Wilberforce
1298129712961295in toto, said, that his motive in addressing the House was, to call their attention to a new crisis in the state of the country, to a change in the laws of the country as they affected Catholics, which had occurred within the last four years, and which, as it appeared to him, left the House no alternative between at once adopting the measure proposed to them, and rejecting, 1298129712961295in toto,Sir James Mackintosh
1269 said, that the petition did not come before the House with that authority which might have been concluded from its title. There were in Staffordshire many ancient Catholic families, and yet none of those illustrious families, had put their names to the petition. He would ask, whether the omission of the names of the earl of Shrewsbury, lord Stourton, the Fitzherberts, the Cliffords, the Jerninghams, and others, who formed the ornament of the Catholic body, was no objection? He would have considered the authority of such names even superior to that of the right-reverend-vicar-apostolic. He would not apply the term bigotry to the Catholic, who on the one hand fanned the flame of dissention; or to the Protestant on the other, who laboured in the same unfortunate cause; but he was glad to find, that to a petition which was opposed to liberality, good sense, and the spirit of conciliation, there was not the name of a single Catholic gentleman of known respectability. The sole and undivided honour should be given to Dr. Milner, whom he believed to be the irreconcileable enemy of all union and mutual good-will between Protestant and Catholic, and it was not strange that such an enemy should be hailed by all Protestants, who, on the other side, held in alarm and detestation
1269Sir James Mackintosh
13171316lll said, that, by the bill of 1819, the Bank of England were entitled, at their option, to issue gold coin on the 1st of May, 1822, and were bound to resume Cash Payments on the 1st of May 1823. Now, the object of his motion was, that this optional power, instead of remaining over until May, 1822, should be brought into practical operation, if the Bank directors thought fit, on the 1st of May, 1821; leaving, of course, both the proportion and mode of issuing the cash payments at that time entirely to themselves; He looted upon the measure which he now proposed as affording a more easy and gradual preparation for the final resumption of; cash payments. But it was not intended by that measure, to restrict the Bank of England as to the circulation of a single pound note—that was to be left to the sole discretion of the Bank. The right hon. gentleman next observed, that by the drain which was made by the Bank on other countries for the precious metals, in order to enable the country to resume cash payments, an effect was produced unfavourable to commerce; because that drain rendered the circulation of other countries more restricted. Instead of the productions of foreign countries, large quantities of Bullion had been lately imported as so much merchandize in exchange for our produce. It would be seen, by the accounts on the table, that the Bank had carried into execution the suggestions made by the committees of both Houses in 1819. In June, 1819, the issues of the Bank amounted to 25,600,00013171316lllThe Chancellor of the Exchequer
desideratum1328lds13271326ll1325s.ds13241323s.l1322ll13211320ll13191318ll said, that as far as the limited measure now proposed went, he had no objection to it; for if the House were still persuaded that the steps taken for a return to the ancient standard were right, it undoubtedly would be prudent to give the Bank, in May next, instead of in 1822, the permission to pay in cash, instead of in bullion. But he thought it necessary to look at the general effects of the measures taken for the resumption of cash payments. It had now been seen that the paper currency had been brought back to the level of gold more rapidly than had been generally deemed possible—not more rapidly than he had thought possible, because he had always thought that the value of the Bank notes was in the hands of the Bank; and he had always thought gradual scales of payments of little importance. The right hon. gentleman had said, that the putting out of gold by the Bank of England would operate as a relief to the general circulation of the world. This would have been an important effect if it could be so produced; but he held it to be a mistake; for, just to the extent that gold was put forth by the Bank, they must withdraw paper; so that nothing would be diminished of the general mass of circulation. It was also remarked that the withdrawing in part, of the 1desideratum1328lds13271326ll1325s.ds13241323s.l1322ll13211320ll13191318llMr. Baring
sldsd.s1333 defended the principles on which the committee in 1819, which had advised the partial restoration of cash payments had acted. He contended that the plan of the hon. member could not be carried into prectice, and that even the mode proposed by the hon. member for Portarlington would be preferable. The doctrine of the former member would by no means remedy the distresses which were at present complained of. With respect to the committee which sat in 1819 he maintained that they could have come, under all the circumstances, to no other conclusion than that which they had recommended to the House. It should be
sldsd.s1333Mr. Peel
 denied that the probable resumption of cash payments had in any material degree induced the provincial bankers to lessen the extent of their discounts, or contributed to the distress under which the country was labouring. He contended, that the depression in the prices of commodities had produced the contraction which had naturally taken place in the circulation.Mr. Cripps
 was of opinion, that it would be more advantageous to resort to the expedient proposed by the chancellor of the exchequer—or indeed almost any other, than return to all the hazard and insecurity of a paper currency.Mr. Gurney
1338 thought that the danger did not consist in the mere existence of a paper currency, but in a paper currency not convertible into money. He had been of opinion formerly, and he saw no reason for changing that opinion, that it would have been wise in parliament to have altered the standard, before they determined on a return to cash payments. The misfortune was, that we were brought into such a situation by the system we had pursued, as to render it inevitable that great injustice must be done in either
1338Lord Folkestone
 said, the introduction of a double standard could not be considered an innovation. It existed ever since the time of queen Elizabeth up to 1797. His great difference with his hon. friend was, as to the amount of depreciation. His hon. friend took it solely from the price of gold, without taking into consideration the state of the country.Mr. Baring
134213411340Sagesse après coup.matre pulchra filia pulchrior. said:—Although, Sir, I have hitherto given my support to this bill as it was introduced to the House by the noble lord, yet I do not consider it at all a necessary consequence, that I should continue to be favourable to a measure which has undergone so material an alteration since it has been abandoned by its original parent. One reason which induced me to favour this bill was, because it proceeded from a gentleman whom I thought sincere in his wishes for reform of parliament up to a certain extent; but the hon. gentleman who now patronises the bill, has not, that I know, ever been suspected of the least attachment to that great cause, and certainly he has contrived to give to his adopted child, features sufficiently indicative of its present parent—"134213411340Sagesse après coup.matre pulchra filia pulchrior.Mr. Hobhouse
 here called Mr. Hobhouse to order, for alluding to what passed on a former debate.Mr. Bankes
13441343 continued:—I did think that the attack made on my constituents, in the absence of both their representatives, might have justified a slight departure from ordinary forms; and, even as it is, I assure the hon. member for Corfe Castle, that no interruption of his shall prevent me from taking the line of argument I meant to pursue. We will suppose, then, that the electors of Westminster may have been charged with liking most those who talk the most nonsense to them. Certainly, this is rather a severe imputation upon our worthy friends of the metropolis, but it would be one consolation to them under the imputation, that they are not the only electors in the kingdom who are caught by other allures—than commonsense and common honesty. Sir, there is a town in Somersetshire called Taunton, and I have heard—perhaps incorrectly,—perhaps with no more foundation than the reports which have deceived hon. gentlemen with respect to Westminster—that at one of the late elections for that town, a Mr. Alexander Baring was introduced to the voters of that ancient borough at the tail of a procession which was ushered in by a huge mountain loaf, supported by four cupids, with suitable decorations. It is no wonder that a gentleman accustomed to recommend himself by such modes of persuasion, should have no very high opinion of the intellect of, the electors of England; but I venture to warn him, that if he should ever become a candidate for Westminster, he would do well to try nonsense of a different sort. His loaf, and his cupids would be brought to a very bad market at a Covent-garden hustings. In addition to the charge made against the electors of Westminster, and the electors of populous places generally, I have heard that a grave attack was made upon those who recommend themselves to the voters of such places by "language such as they would not use in any company composed of gentlemen." Sir, these are hard words; and if the imputation be just, I must, say, that the
13441343Mr. Hobhouse
ll1339l hoped it would not be supposed, that in relinquishing the charge of the bill, he had departed from the line of conciliation he had prescribed to himself, or had been influenced by any disgust. On the first introduction of the bill, he had endeavoured to obtain the support of moderate reformers on whichever side of the House. At first he had proposed the elective franchise at Leeds to be exercised by those who paid scot and lot; then, conceiving that there might be some members indisposed to agree to so extensive a suffrage, he had proposed to confine it to housekeepers of 5ll1339lLord John Russell
1345 moved the omission from the preamble of certain words which stated, that on the disfranchisement of Grampound "the number of burgesses serving in parliament for England would become incomplete." It was, in his judgment, quite sufficient to state the expediency of excluding Grampound, and of substituting Leeds, without adopting an abstract proposition of so much constitutional importance with respect to which considerable difference of opinion must exist, and one which it was extremely inexpedient to trifle with in the preamble of a bill where it had no necessary place. From the earliest period to which parliamentary records extended, down to the time of Charles 2nd, the whole representation had fluctuated in consequence of the frequent discontinuance of boroughs, and of the power which the Crown had from time to time exercised of creating and restoring them; accordingly, the number of members in that House had continually varied. It would undoubtedly be inconsistent with that settled form of parlia-
1345Mr. Tennyson
 observed, that if the bill affected the elections upon a more popular principle, he would have supported it. It was his wish to see the two seats transferred to Yorkshire, which would in that case send four members to parliament. As that, however, was not likely to be adopted, he should content himself with moving, as an amendment, "that the bill be read a third time that day six months."Mr. Sykes
13321331lls1330dsd.ssds1329 began by observing, that his hon. friend had set out with contending for the propriety of establishing two standards: whereas a great part of his argument had gone to put the gold standard out of the question altogether. He had truly said, that in 1797, permission was given to the Bank of England, by act of parliament, to increase or diminish the amount of its circulation as it might think proper. Now, though he agreed that such a power could not have been lodged in hands less inclined to abuse that permission, he did consider it a power most dangerous to have been entrusted to any men, under any circumstances. It was undoubtedly true that the Bank had had it in its power to have kept the currency at a standard as if it had been composed
13321331lls1330dsd.ssds1329Mr. Ricardo
133713361335dss1334 said, that nothing could be more correct than the whole statement made by his hon. friend (Mr. Baring) of the amount of our difficulties—and notwithstanding the arguments adduced by the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Peel) in favour of the expediency of the determination adopted by the committee in 1819, he still felt satisfied, that taking to the extent of debt contracted, the taxes imposed to pay the interest, and also all the enormous amount of private contracts and engagements, which had been affected by tlie restoration of the ancient standard, more injustice than justice had been done by that measure, and more burthen imposed on the means and productive industry of the country, than he yet saw the possibility of its being able to meet. The right hon. gentleman, and his hon. friend (Mr. Ricardo) had re-stated all their opinions of the exaggeration
133713361335dss1334Mr. Ellice
 moved the third reading of this bill.Mr. Stuart Wortley
 could not but not express his surprise, that after the measure of 1819 had received the sanction of parliament and the Bank was ready to discharge its duty towards the public, the very persons who promoted that measure, should now be the first to object to its operation.Mr. Pearse
 protested against the doctrine of the noble lord, that to change the standard by law would have been no fraud. The noble lord seemed to forget the condition under which the public debt was contracted, namely, a return to cash payments in six months after peace.Mr. Huskisson
 said, that such allusion was certainly irregular.The Speaker
1349l.l.1348 said, that the present case did not properly belong to the department for which he was responsible. He understood, that in 1817, captain Romeo came to this country, and preferred
1349l.l.1348Lord Castlereagh
, in explanation, declared he had never heard of any such document as that quoted by the noble lord. He hoped the noble lord would produce the document, if in existence. When applied to on the subject, he had refused to give the king of Naples any advice as to his conduct with regard to Sicily. The noble lord knew very well that he (lord C.) had endeavoured in Lord Castlereagh
 supported the motion, and reprobated the proceedings of Austria, and the other members of the holy alliance, towards the independent people of Naples, who, from the vigour of their struggles against such a formidable conspiracy of despots, had proved that they deserved to enjoy the blessings of liberty.Mr. Hutchinson
136513641363 said, he considered neutrality on the part of this government towards Naples, as a sound general principle. At the same time, he could not but regret that our conduct had not been of a more decided aspect, and that we had not a little, sooner exerted that influence which belonged to our character. There might, he would, admit, be good reasons against this line of con-
136513641363The Hon. J. W. Ward
 expressed his doubts of the authenticity of this document.Lord Castlereagh
1362amicus curies,136113601359135813571356 in rising to offer such explanations as he felt it to be his duty to supply on a question of this nature being brought before the House, would principally confine himself to the motion immediately under consideration. He should hot think it necessary to enter into the discussion of all the topics which the
1362amicus curies,136113601359135813571356Lord Castfereagh,
 vindicated the conduct of his relation, observing, that the reception which the reading of his note met with in the Neapolitan parliament furnished a complete answer to the objections which had been urged by the gallant officer.Mr. A'Court
 then read the document in question.Lord W. Bentinck
 said, that captain Romeo had performed considerable services to the British army, and that those services were of a nature to draw down upon him the dislike and revenge of the Neapolitan, government. The noble lord opposite had said, that he had stipulated with the government of Naples, that persons who had distinguished themselves in the service of Great Britain, should not be punished or injured; and that the people of Sicily should not be deprived of the rights which they had enjoyed under the constitution which England gave to them, as well as the rights which they had previously possessed. But the British authorities had scarcely taken their departure from Sicily, when the king of Naples tore from the people, not only the new constitution, but deprived them of all their rights and privileges. Since he had left Sicily, he had had little communication with that country, but from something which had fallen from the noble lord the other night, he was induced to make inquiries, and was made acquainted with the extraordinary fact, that in 1818, by a public edict, the king of Naples, in compliance with the recommendation of the Congress of Vienna, had united the government of Sicily and Naples.Lord W. Bentinck
13761375137413731372little13711370Nocte tegi nostræ; patiamur crimina gentis.Sæcula; nos certe taceamus &c obruta multaExcidat illa dies ævo: nec postera credant1369136813671366 said, he was unwilling to protract the debate; but, considering the situation in which he stood with regard to his majesty's ministers, he felt it to be due to them as well as to himself, to express his sentiments upon the question now before the House. Having held an official situation at the time when that policy which the motion of the hon. and gallant general had brought into discussion was adopted, it would be most un-candid in; him if he did not avow and even claim his share of the responsibility
13761375137413731372little13711370Nocte tegi nostræ; patiamur crimina gentis.Sæcula; nos certe taceamus &c obruta multaExcidat illa dies ævo: nec postera credant1369136813671366Mr. Canning
l.l.1347l.1346 rose to present a Petition from captain Romeo, a Neapolitan subject, now in this country. He stated, that in 1806, he had become a partizan of the British
l.l.1347l.1346Mr. Hume
l. said, that the noble lord had mis-stated the fact when he said, that captain Romeo had escaped from prison, whereas on that occasion he had been transported by an order from the king of Naples, countersigned by the English consul, Mr. Lee, in a Swedish vessel to Egypt. With regard to the 1,400l.Mr. Hume
 said, that the statement of the noble lord was of importance, not merely as it related to the case of the individual, but to the general affairs of Europe. The noble lord opposite imagined that there was a contradiction between him and the noble lord behind him. There was; but it was merely as to words. It was asserted that the king abrogated the constitution of Sicily, in consequence of the act of the Congress of Vienna. The noble lord denied the fact; but did not the noble, lord recollect the secret treaty between. Naples and Austria, dated the 12th of June? That flagitious treaty had produced the effect of which the noble lord behind him complained. It was a treaty conceived in the true spirit of foreign tyranny—it bound the king of Naples not to introduce any regulation in the affairs of its internal government, without the sanction of Austria. It certainly struck him as not a little singular, that ministers should have referred the case of capt. Romeo to the Neapolitan government. He could not help observing, that the conduct pursued towards captain Romeo—a foreigner—a man in reduced circumstances—a brave man—a man who was nearly ignorant of the English language—who was friendless in a country to which he had rendered important services—was not very creditable to the English government.Sir J. Mackintosh
137913781377 said, he was under the necessity of rising in order to remove the obstacles which his right hon. friend had ingeniously raised to obstruct and confound all clear views of the subject, rather than for the purpose of contesting any of the principles which he had advanced. On the general subject he was not called on to make any declaration of his sentiments, after the unanswerable speech of his hon. friend, the member for Bossiney—a speech, the argument of which he defied the power of man to overthrow—a speech adorned equally with all the charms of wit and eloquence; wit to illustrate reason, and eloquence to enforce argument. It was not his intention to follow his right hon. friend through all the topics which he had thought proper to introduce, without the slightest relation to the subject before the Housed He rose to disclaim those intentions and principles which his right hon. friend had imputed to all who had spoken on his side of the question, and which were entertained by not one of them. He would not follow his right hon. friend in those excursive wanderings into the history of this and other countries, with which he had amused the House; nor would he follow him in his panegyric on that government of which he had recently been a member. It would really seem as if he occasionally retired from the government, in order to have an opportunity of eulogizing its councils with a greater appearance of disinterested impartiality. He had well observed the address and ingenuity with which his right hon. friend had fastened on a parenthesis here and there in the speeches of his opponents, with the view of discovering some insulated proposition to which he might attach obloquy, since he found he opportunity of attacking the argument. Of this nature was the attack on what had been said respecting the propriety of bringing monarchs to trial for their political offences. Now, he conceived that no man should be brought to trial who could not be tried fairly; and as he believed that prejudices must always exist which would deprive kings of a fair trial, he
137913781377Sir J. Mackintosh
1380 made a short reply, in the course of which he vindicated the Carbonari from the charge of being the promoters of assassination. He likewise eulogized them for the wisdom with which they, had projected, the bravery with which they had executed, and the glory with which they had consummated, their revolution of Naples, and stated that the principles which they professed were so widely diffused through out Italy that there was scarcely a single Italian who was not a Carbonari: the right hon. gentleman had said, that there was a conflict now waging throughout the world between
1380Sir R. Wilson
1355tête de pont,1354135313521351 said that having seen a letter purporting to have been written by his majesty's minister at Naples, which he had good reason to believe to be authentic, containing princi-
1355tête de pont,1354135313521351Sir R. Wilson
1384in liminel.l., admitted, that men in office were obliged to look with more scrupulousness, and perhaps want-of liberality, upon the demands of individuals, than they would be disposed to do if the claim were upon then-Own private funds. The case made out by the lion, member was unquestionably very strong. He by no means meant to contend that the lapse of time was a bar to the demands now made, because those demands had been unremittingly pressed; but it Was high time to come to a final decision whether any thing or nothing should be granted. Neither did he mean to argue that any thing more than a partial compensation had hitherto been afforded to any of the parties. He then proceeded to notice the precise stipulations of the treaty of commerce with the United States in 1794, and followed it by some observations upon the breach of faith of which America had been guilty with regard to the creditors whose demands she thereby undertook to satisfy. The dispute upon this point had been finally, amicably adjusted; and the total amount of the claims was settled by commissioners, at about 1,450,0001384in liminel.l.,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1385 rose to move for the repeal of the late additional Malt tax, and maintained that upon every consideration of feeling, justice, and policy, that motion ought to be agreed to; for no tax existed which was so injurious to the comforts of the people or to the interests of agriculture. He protested against the idea generally held out, that any member who called for the repeal of a tax was bound to propose a substitute, for that would imply that he who discovered the oppression or injustice of a tax was not entitled to complain unless he were disposed to I become a second chancellor of the exchequer, whose peculiar duty it was, to provide for the financial exigencies of the country. But he the more objected to this idea, because he was an advocate for the reduction of the aggregate amount of taxation. He wished it, however, to be distinctly understood, that he did not desire this reduction, by the exemption 'of the agriculturists, or any particular class, from the general pressure. He was not one of those who would tax the funds for the support of the poor-rates, or who would recommend any violation of the
1385Mr. Western
1394 said, that when the hon. mover stated, that the produce of the tax on malt had been diminished by the additional duties imposed in 1819, he had by no means accurately stated the accounts before the House. Now, the first inference which lie should draw from the accounts on the table was, that the repeal of the war duties on malt in 1816, did not relieve the agriculture of the country, which he should prove by an argument of the same nature as that of the hon. member, for he should shew that the repeal of those duties did not increase the consumption of malt in the succeeding years. The average quantity of malt between July, 1816, when the; duties were taken off, and July, 1819, when a considerable part of those duties was reimposed, was less than 22,980,000 bushels; whereas, in the three preceding years, it amounted to 26,469,000 bushels, so that there was a diminution of upwards of 3,000,000 bushels, after the tax was taken off. But if the repeal of the tax had not the effect of increasing the consumption, neither had the reimposition of it the effect of producing any further diminution of consumption. On the contrary, since 1819, there has been an increase of 1,200,000 bushels. The quantity of beer consumed by a large portion of the community was for the most part so uniform, that a moderate fluctuation in the price of barley did not materially affect the amount of consumption. From a computation which had been made, it appeared that the strong beer brewed within the last year, exceeded by 40,000 barrels the average of the three years before. He maintained that the malt duty fell not upon the farmer, but upon the community at large; and if this position was clearly established, as he contended it was, he would ask, whether any tax could be more equally levied upon the mass of the people. He would also contend, that no unfair proportion of the tax had been raised from Scotland he could not therefore consent to any partial diminution of the malt tax with respect to that country. It was argued that the malt tax tended to encourage illicit distillation in Scotland. He was not, however, aware, that any general diminution had taken place in the distillation of spirits. There
1394The Chancellor of the Exchequer
s.1395 said, that the tax in question was the most objectionable of all our taxes both in a moral and political point of view. He knew of his own knowledge, that it prevented many persons altogether from growing barley. It was impossible to deny, that it went in fact to destroy the cultivation of barley altogether. Landholders now turned themselves to growing of wheat as the most productive grain, the consequence of which would be the speedy exhaustion of the land, and from this would arise that greatest of all curses, a high price of bread. The only way to avert this evil would be, to encourage the cultivation of the lighter soil, by which means a permanent stock would be secured. Some might wish to reduce one tax and same another, but the main question to be considered was, which portion of the community was labouring under the greatest distress? He would any the greatest distress was felt by the arable land farmer.
s.1395Mr. Wodehose
1396 did not think that the repeal of this tax would relieve agriculture; but it would relieve the community, which was a much more desirable result. With respect to the necessity so often contended for, of keeping good faith with the public creditor, under all circumstances, he could not help regarding it as fallacious. The maxim, "nemo tenetur ad impossibile," was one of universal application, and he could easily conceive cases in1 which a perseverance in what was called good faith might ultimately prove to be had faith. If the advantage of the public creditor was to be purchased by the injury of the whole community, he conceived that the obligation to preserve that faith was at an end; for the greater must be the more binding duty. Every day's experience rendered it more and more evident, that the country could not go on maintaining its faith at such an ex-
1396Lord Folkestone
 said, he was anxious to see the public burthens alleviated as much as possible; at the but at the same time he was persuaded of the necessity of keeping faith public creditor. He would not aggravate, unnecessarily, the burthens of the country for he was convinced that the best strength of a government was the good will and hearts of the people [Here the hon gentleman proceeded for several minutes, in the midst of loud cries of "Question!"]; He complained of this interruption, and said, that gentlemen who came down late should have come consideration, if not for those who sat there patiently all night at least for the nature of the question itself. It was not one to be disposed of in a cursory and summary way if it was not one they ought to proceed With "pedib us ire in sententiam" He hoped the subject would be temperately discussed, He should support the motion.Mr. Witber force
 said, that the right hon. gentleman had asked, what difference there was this question now and at a former period to which he had alluded. He would tell hnm—the difference would be found in the reduced state of the country. In proportion as the rent-roll of the country declined, in the same proportion ought the taxation which bore upon it the right hon. gentleman had said, why complain now, seeing that the duty was much higher during the war? Because the prices which Were then high were now low, He had talked of America; but he should recollect that there the salaries of men in office and also the standing army, had been reduced one-half. There were two modes of relieving the agricultural interests; one by high duties and bounties—to that mode he objected; for to benefit one class it must fall upon another the only real good could be effected by economy and retrenchment and the only way to induce ministers to resort to that was by a removal of a part of the taxation, by which a system of extragance Upheld.Mr. Monek
1400 said he could not help complaining that the nations of his hon friend (Mr. Wilberforce which were he know those of benevotence, ap-
1400Lord Castlereagh
 pointed out the severe hardships which the increased malt duty imposed upon the landholders of Scotland. It was unfortunately discovered that a small portion of land in. the neighbourhood of Edinburgh was equal in its produce to good English land, and therefore the whole produce of Scotland was taxed equally with the produce of the most fertile laud in England.Lord A. Hamilton
 supported the motion, from a conviction that it would alleviate the distresses under which the agriculturists laboured. It might be in vidious, in the present state of the country, to state how the operation of any particular tax was felt. But take the operation of the taxes generally; let them look to the manufacturing and the commercial interests, and they would find that both were able, according to the vulgar phrase, to hold their heads above water. Could the same be said of the agricultural interest. Let them look back for the last twenty years. Let them recollect the burdens which had been laid upon the landholder within that period,' and then let any gentleman put it to him self how it was possible for the land holder or farmer to bear up against those burdens.Lord G. Cavendish
13931392d.s.l.sl.139113901389l.?l.;13881387 said, that if he could reconcile to himself that the tax might be dispensed with, without injustice to the public creditor, or injury to the- wants of the state; and if there could be any rational hope, that the distress of the landed interest could be relieved by the repeal, he would support it; and he could do so with the more consistency, as he had reprobated its imposition in 1S19; when the other measures then determined upon with respect to the currency, rendered the country less able to. bear the additional 3 millions of taxes. Now, with respect to the expediency of repealing any tax, he had often stated his opinion, that, under the peculiar circumstances in which we were placed, and with a view to the permanent benefit and security of the fundholder, if the country was really able to wade through the difficulties
13931392d.s.l.sl.139113901389l.?l.;13881387Mr. Ellice
 thought that taxation should be generally distributed; and that this tax therefore was not the one which ought to be continued.Mr. Littleton
 said, that the war which had required the present heavy taxation had been supported by the people. Never since man became a pugnacious animal had a war been more cordially supported by the people. He had voted for the repeal of the horse-tax; and he would vote with every member who proposed any reduction of taxes that might relieve agriculture; yet he would vote against the present motion.Mr. Sumner
 said, that he was an advocate for compensation to that description of American loyalists who, being domiciled in America, had sacrificed their property to their allegiance: while he would protest against any attempt to indemnify the mere British merchant, who might have made unsuccessful speculations in America at the period alluded to.Mr. Lockhart
 considered the case made out by the hon. and learned mover as strong a one as ever came before the House. The chancellor of the exchequer had, in his view of the question, been led into a confusion of the rights of the loyalists with those of the American creditor. But, according to all national law, the two were quite distinct, and their claims rested upon a very different foundation.Dr. Phillimore
s.ld.s.l.1386 said, that the extent to which illicit distillation had been carried
s.ld.s.l.1386Mr. Mackenzie
 said, he had no objection whatever to the distinction which his hon. friend had desired to establish.Mr. Courtenay
1382l.l.1381 said, that the address which had been just read stated, that it would have been superfluous for the House to express the regard of the nation for every description of men who had, in the cause of his majesty, risked their lives and forfeited their properties, during a long and calamitous war. It was in conformity with the sentiments contained in that address, that he rose to bring before parliament, the case of persons who had so risked their lives and forfeited their properties. The House would see the difficulties he had to meet in bringing forward claims in 1821, which had their foundation so long ago as the peace of 1783. But he hoped to satisfy the House that the lapse of time could not create a bar to those claims. At the commencement of the American war, the legislature of America took every means to prevail on persons of property and influence in that country, to raise what was then called the standard of rebellion. It was, on the other hand, the duty of the government of this country to call on the exertions of individuals in America, who owed allegiance to the king of England. I Accordingly, royal proclamations and re-I solutions of that House were issued from 1776 to 1783, calling upon individuals to join the royal standard. At the person of 1783, there were two classes of persons who had lost their property or the service J of England, and who therefore had claims
1382l.l.1381Mr. W. Courtenay
 supported the motion, and contended, that as the claimants had done every thing to keep their claims alive, they were not to be opposed by a sort of statute of limitation, which was set up in the mind of the chancellor of the exchequer. He knew no stronger claim upon this country, than that of persons who had sacrificed their property and the interests of their families from attachment to its cause.Mr. Dickinson
 thought that if present scale of taxation was necessary at more general tax than this could not selected. The, previous question; being put, the House divided: Ayes 149,:;Noes 125. Mr. Western's motion was consequently agreed to, and a bill ordered to be brought in.Mr. K. Douglas
139913981397 said, he would call upon the House to recollect that it was only two years ago since government had come down, and recommended an addition of three millions to the taxes for the maintenance of the public credit, and that taxes to that amount were passed by a majority of 327 to 129. Would any one say, that such a change had taken place since that period in the circumstances of the country as to render it necessary that they should repeal four-fifths of the addition then made—for that was the proportion which the tax under consideration bore to the whole amount? If we were in a Situation to reduce any of the public burthens, this was not the first tax which ought to be removed. But when hon. members attributed all the distress under which the agricultural interest laboured, to its operation, they were guilty of great inconsistency: for the distress had not only existed before it had been imposed; but during the war, when it was Is. a bushel more than it was at present, the agricultural interest was in its most flourishing condition. Whatever other objections there might be to this tax, he did not think that any could be made to its unequal operation. Hon. gentlemen had argued, that it ought to be removed' on account of the general distress which prevailed. Now, when he heard it asserted, that the manufacturer, the artisan, the agriculturist, and the land-owner Were all involved in extreme distress; he was in-
139913981397Mr. Huskisson
1383 said, that these gentlemen had for forty years been entitled to compensation, and now the very length of time during which justice had beer! withheld, was made an argument against their demand. When they saw every day compensation made for the loss of offices which those who had lost them had no right to expect to retain it seemed extraordinary that so great a renitence should exist to accede to the claims of those who had lost every thing through their attachment to this country He re-
1383Mr. W. Smith
 said, if ever any set of men Were deserving of consideration, it was these claimants, who had drunk to the very dreg the bitter cup of that "hope deferred," which "maketh the heart sick."Mr. Wilberforce
l.1410 said, that he would move as an amendment, for the appointment of a select committee, to inquiry whether the object of the motion could be carried into effect consistently with the public interest. He would adopt the suggestion of such a committee,
l.1410The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1412 observed, that the hon. and learned gentleman seemed to become intoxicated with the majority in which he had found himself the night be fore than become a person of his experience and ability. He hoped the hon. and learned gentleman, now that he acted as the leader of a party, would not so easily be betrayed into these juvenile indiscretions. The exultation of the hon. and learned member was more worthy of a young beginner than of so grave and learned a personage. If he carried back his remembrance of Lansdown was chancellor of the exchequer, he would find that the administration of that day had received two hints similar to the one of last night, and in fuller House, without considering it their duty to resign. They received to a tax on iron, and the other
1412Lord Castlereagh
 confirmed the statement of his noble friend, as to his attending a meeting at which he had pledged himself to consent to the appointment of a fair committee.Mr. S. Wortley
 expressed his ac knowledgments to the hon. mover, for his unwearied exertions in promoting re trenchment and economy, at a time when the public interests so imperiously called for them.Lord A. Hamilton
5. "That in the present state of the finances of the country, the duty of distributors of stamps may be performed at a less charge to the public than is now incurred; with equal security against loss, and with equal efficiency to the public service"l.ll.4. "That there are 95 distributors of stamps in Great British, who received allowances or poundage amounting to 87,233l.ll.3. "That the office of receiver-general of the land and assessed taxes is one of deposit, and for remittance of the taxes from district collection to the Exchequer; and I the present state of the finances of the country, that such service may be performed at a less charge to the public than is now incurred, with equal security against loss, and with equal efficiency to the public service.d.s.l.s. 4d.;l.2. "That it appears by the returns before the House, that ten receivers-general were, on the 1st of Jan. 1820, in arrears at the time of their death, or of leaving their office, since 1790, to the amount of 304,337d.s.l.s. 4d.;l.l.l.1.1."That there are 65 receivers-general of the land and assessed taxes in England and wales, who received an allowance of 41,415l.l.1.
5. "That in the present state of the finances of the country, the duty of distributors of stamps may be performed at a less charge to the public than is now incurred; with equal security against loss, and with equal efficiency to the public service"l.ll.4. "That there are 95 distributors of stamps in Great British, who received allowances or poundage amounting to 87,233l.ll.3. "That the office of receiver-general of the land and assessed taxes is one of deposit, and for remittance of the taxes from district collection to the Exchequer; and I the present state of the finances of the country, that such service may be performed at a less charge to the public than is now incurred, with equal security against loss, and with equal efficiency to the public service.d.s.l.s. 4d.;l.2. "That it appears by the returns before the House, that ten receivers-general were, on the 1st of Jan. 1820, in arrears at the time of their death, or of leaving their office, since 1790, to the amount of 304,337d.s.l.s. 4d.;l.l.l.1.1."That there are 65 receivers-general of the land and assessed taxes in England and wales, who received an allowance of 41,415l.l.1.1409l.,l.l.1408d.s.sd.l.l.1407l.l.l.l.ll.,sl.ll.1406l.l.,l.,d.d.d.d1405l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,1404l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1403l.l.prima faciel.l.1402 said, he should confine his motion at present to the offices of Receivers-general and Distributors of Stamps, in order to avoid the imputation of proposing sweeping reductions. In proposing the abolition of those offices his object was,—1. To establish economy in the collection of the revenue; and, 2. To reduce the patronage and influence which produced so many baneful effects to this country. The two offices referred to were in the patronage of that House, and
5. "That in the present state of the finances of the country, the duty of distributors of stamps may be performed at a less charge to the public than is now incurred; with equal security against loss, and with equal efficiency to the public service"l.ll.4. "That there are 95 distributors of stamps in Great British, who received allowances or poundage amounting to 87,233l.ll.3. "That the office of receiver-general of the land and assessed taxes is one of deposit, and for remittance of the taxes from district collection to the Exchequer; and I the present state of the finances of the country, that such service may be performed at a less charge to the public than is now incurred, with equal security against loss, and with equal efficiency to the public service.d.s.l.s. 4d.;l.2. "That it appears by the returns before the House, that ten receivers-general were, on the 1st of Jan. 1820, in arrears at the time of their death, or of leaving their office, since 1790, to the amount of 304,337d.s.l.s. 4d.;l.l.l.1.1."That there are 65 receivers-general of the land and assessed taxes in England and wales, who received an allowance of 41,415l.l.1.
5. "That in the present state of the finances of the country, the duty of distributors of stamps may be performed at a less charge to the public than is now incurred; with equal security against loss, and with equal efficiency to the public service"l.ll.4. "That there are 95 distributors of stamps in Great British, who received allowances or poundage amounting to 87,233l.ll.3. "That the office of receiver-general of the land and assessed taxes is one of deposit, and for remittance of the taxes from district collection to the Exchequer; and I the present state of the finances of the country, that such service may be performed at a less charge to the public than is now incurred, with equal security against loss, and with equal efficiency to the public service.d.s.l.s. 4d.;l.2. "That it appears by the returns before the House, that ten receivers-general were, on the 1st of Jan. 1820, in arrears at the time of their death, or of leaving their office, since 1790, to the amount of 304,337d.s.l.s. 4d.;l.l.l.1.1."That there are 65 receivers-general of the land and assessed taxes in England and wales, who received an allowance of 41,415l.l.1.1409l.,l.l.1408d.s.sd.l.l.1407l.l.l.l.ll.,sl.ll.1406l.l.,l.,d.d.d.d1405l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,1404l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1403l.l.prima faciel.l.1402Mr. Hume
1411 said, that his hon. friend was entitled to the gratitude of the country, for the zeal and perseverance which marked his public conduct, and which rendered him one of the most useful members of that House. The perseverance of his hon. friend had obtained that concession from ministers which they had formerly refused to make. Besides, they had that night heard a lecture form the chancellor of the exchequer, on the propriety of retrenchment—on a total disregard to patronage—on purity and disinterestedness in public life, which would do honour to the exchequer of Utopia. With respect to the abuses of which his hon. friend complained, those abuses were too glaring not to be denounced by the committee. With respect to them, he considered inquiry and condemnation as synonymous. The concession which ministers had just made, would pretty clearly show the salutary effect of occasional majorities against them in that House. It showed how those majorities tended to liberalise their minds. It brought the language of economy to their lips—it induced them to consem to investigations, which they had formerly resisted with all
1411Sir. J. Mackintosh
concordia discors1427Reformatio Legum,14261425 said, that upon all former occasions, when the severity of the penal code had been relaxed, there was precisely the same denunciation of danger, and the same cry of alarm for the safety of the constitution in Church and State. The relaxations had, however, happily taken place, and the alarm was eventually proved to be unfounded. If the speech, then, of his right hon. friend were good for any thing, it must be carried much further than he intended it should be; for it went to prove that what they had hitherto done was wrong; that they ought to retrace their steps, and re-enact the whole body of the penal code of those laws which degraded Ireland, and tarnished the glory of an otherwise immortal Revolution. It was the misfortune of the spirit of legislation which characterised the legislature of that day, that it mixed up accidental events with permanent causes, and carried this error through so many of its enactments. The spirit of liberty seemed for a moment to be forgotten in the zeal of its enthusiastic admirers; and even the mild benevolence and charity of religion were for a moment forgotten in the ardour for its protection and support. The result of that mistaken system of legislation was most strongly felt in the two countries. In Ireland, it produced a government by the sword; in England, a government of freedom. In Ireland it ruled by the strong arm of overwhelming power, in England it ruled by the moral force of free opinion. Here it kept faith, and expelled those who had broken it; there it proffered faith, and at the onset, in the treaty of Limerick, violated that solemn pledge by the most flagrant breach of faith which occurred in modern times. His right hon. friend had endeavoured to show that, on the score of religion, that of the Catholic furnished, according to the statute law of the land, a permanent exclusion. But he had omitted to state, that so ineffectual was
concordia discors1427Reformatio Legum,14261425Mr. C. Grant
 spoke against the principle and provisions of the bill, and said he conceived the oath of Elizabeth to which the admonition annexed to the injunctions referred, and which was sanctioned by the act passed in the fifth year of her reign, had already received a legislative explanation, but one very different from that which seemed to be given to it by the present bill; because the Irish House of Commons, in 1642, resorted to that very oath to which the admonition referred, for the express purpose of excluding Roman Catholics from holding seats in their House, as fully appeared from the resolutions recorded in their Journals, in June 1642. The hon. member then read an extract from their Journals, reciting, "forasmuch as many members of this House, betraying the trust reposed in them by the commonwealth, have treacherously shown themselves privy conspirators and actors in this horrid rebellion; it is ordered—that no person, now a knight, citizen, or burgess for this parliament, and now present, shall be deemed a member of this House any longer, unless he shall forthwith accept and take the oath, &c. of supremacy of Elizabeth."Mr. Grosset
1441 said, it might appear strange, looking to the arguments which had been addressed to the House, and to the authorities by whom those arguments had been employed, that any doubt should remain upon the question; but he
1441Mr. Becker
1444in foro externoin foro externo.in foro conscientiœ."in foro conscientiœ,14431442 said, that he should confine his observations to the question immediately before the committee; namely, whether the clause should stand part of the bill? It did not follow, according to his conception, that any objection to this clause applied to the principle of the bill; which, principle might be discussed upon bringing up the report, or upon the third reading. The principle of the bill might,
1444in foro externoin foro externo.in foro conscientiœ."in foro conscientiœ,14431442Mr. Peel
1445 could not help thinking that, from the manner in which his right hon. friend had treated this clause, he would not contend against the next clause, namely, the repeal of the Test against Transubstantiation. It might be a matter of debate, indeed, whether Catholics could take the Protestant oath of Supremacy, without doing violence to their conscience; but on the test against transubstantiation there could be no doubt at all. As to the oath of Supremacy, it was the same substantially as that now to be taken by the Catholics. His conviction was, that if they could be prevailed on to take the oath of Supremacy, the most weighty objection of all would be removed. The oath as it was originally, or as now modified, was substantially the same. If it could not be disputed that the words of the oath guarded against all mental reservation and equivocation, he did not see that any solid objection could be taken to the clause. He could state positively, that a considerable number of Catholics did take the oath of Supremacy at the late election. After some observations on the power of the pope and the oath of Supremacy, the noble lord said, that nothing ought to interfere to prevent all classes of subjects from paying an undivided allegiance; and above all, they ought to get rid of that bugbear which had had so unhappy an effect upon the public mind during the last century, and which had made the country subject to so much false alarm and unmanly apprehension. They ought now to adopt that wiser as well as more liberal plan, which, instead of separating a large class of the community from the rest of their fellow-subjects in political sentiment and situation, would give the Catholic an interest in the state,
1445Lord Castlereagh
prima facie1428 said, he was one of those who thought that no securities which the Catholics could offer would be sufficient; but, even to those who were of another opinion, the present bill must be very unsatisfactory. It was said, that the appointment of a commission would be sufficient security against the interference of the Catholics, but he contended that such a commission would be totally inefficient, it would be no more than impanelling a jury of Catholics to decide on the merits of Catholics. The provisions respecting bulls would be equally inefficient. The Catholics would regard the acts of a commission as an interference of unholy hands in religious matters. Was it likely that a country like Ireland, which was almost exclusively Catholic, could be conciliated by such means? He believed that there existed in the breasts of the Catholics of Ireland a longing desire to make their
prima facie1428Mr. Brownlow
 said, that, in resisting the further progress of this bill, he was not about to contend for any factious or unsubstantial point, but for a leading and fundamental principle of the Protestant constitution of this country. In its preamble the bill asserted as a fact that there was a time when Catholics could take the oath of supremacy, and it was proposed therefore to restore that perverted and corrupted oath to its pristine condition, and to put such a construction upon it as to render it again palatable to Papists. This was an historical untruth. There never was a time when the oath introduced by the two statutes of Elizabeth was taken, or could be taken, by Roman Catholics.Mr. Wetherell
1435hortus siccus,1434ultimatum1433rari nantes in gurgite vasto.1432d.s.d.,s.143114301429 said, it was his intention
1435hortus siccus,1434ultimatum1433rari nantes in gurgite vasto.1432d.s.d.,s.143114301429Mr. Wetherell
1440 thought there was a
1440Mr. Goulburn
142314221421142014191418exceptionprinciple14171416 said, he should not have presumed to rise immediately after the right hon. gentleman, whose great ability and high character made it so dangerous for almost any man to come into competition with him; but that no other member seemed disposed to speak, and he was anxious, as soon as possible, to bring back the question to the grounds on which the bill had been originally put by the mover. The right hon. gentleman who spoke last had said, that the admonition, of Elizabeth had gone no further than to disclaim any greater power than was possessed by her father and brother. Be it so: but her father and brother had no law entitling them to administer an oath of supremacy to their subjects. When the right hon. gentleman deprecated the danger of a foreign power over a British conscience, it was material to observe, that there was a religious as well as a moral conscience: that a power over conscience in matters of abstract religion, which was all that the Catholics sought to except, was quite distinct from a power over conscience in practical matters, as to which all honest men, whether Catholic or Protestant, were unanimous. The oath of supremacy, explained as Elizabeth had explained it, was the only test thought of for a century and a half. It as not till the comparatively modern date Of Charles 2nd, that any further test was thought of. And when, in that day, the test as to transubstantiation was for the first time imposed, it was the invention not of the monarchy to strengthen their own power, but of the opposition to weaken if. The monarchy resisted the tests then: to be consistent, it should now concur to abolish them. Very different seemed to be the light wherein
142314221421142014191418exceptionprinciple14171416Mr. Horace Twiss
1413 said, that when he gave notice of a motion for enabling his majesty to make provision for the Roman Catholic clergy of Ireland, he did so upon the full conviction that such a measure would tend to the security of the Roman Catholic no less than that of the Protestant interest; and the more he thought of the
1413Mr. Croker
 considered the objections urged against the clause to be, to say the least of them, hypercritical. Much had been done by the mover of the bill originally in consulting the wishes of those likely to be most affected by it; and the alteration which he had proposed in the form of the oath, arose from the disinclination avowed by the Catholics to subscribe to a more general and unrestricted oath. In reply to the learned member who charged the author of the bill with recording an historical untruth in the preamble he would meet the charge with a direct negative. All members of that House were, as well as all high official persons, compellable to take the oaths—first of allegiance and abjuration; 2dly, of supremacy; and 3rdly, that against the doctrine of transubstantiation. Now, the Catholics had never hesitated to take, when circumstances rendered it expedient, the oath of allegiance and abjuration; the difficulty always had been in taking the oath of supremacy. The learned member here took a review of a controversy recorded by bishop Burnet respecting the objections made by Catholics in that day to take the oath of supremacy. Throughout the controversy queen Elizabeth had expressed herself satisfied that the Catholics should take the oath in the qualified sense; which in fact was very nearly the same sense as that in which it was intended they now should take it. The consequence of this liberal line of conduct was, that the Roman Catholics of that day not only frequented the established Church, but actually partook of the sacrament. He felt that he was borne out by this example in supporting the clause.Dr. Phillimore
14151414 said, that the present was one of the many bills which had been brought before parliament by men of great talents, actuated by the best of motives. The present measure he believed to have been introduced by a right hon. gentleman of equal talent, and with motives no less good, and if this bill should ultimately fail, it would show that there were difficulties in its principle which no abilities could surmount. The bill proposed to relieve certain Roman Catholics from the oath of supremacy, and the clause for that purpose, after pointing to the oath, suggested the adding of an explanation. Now, the original oath of supremacy contained two propositions; the first affirmative, as to the kingly authority over the church; the second negative, as to exclusion of papal and all other foreign influence upon matters ecclesiastical or spiritual within the realm. This was an ancient oath; at the Revolution it had been modified, and in that state it continued. It was not matter of concealment, but of notorious history, that anterior to the Reformation, the papal authority did exist, and was exercised, though checked occasionally by the firmness of our princes and our parliament. In one instance, it had been restrained by an act of the legislature; but it remained for the Reformation to decide against the authority altogether. This was the oath required, and taken in the best of times, and which the experience of two centuries had confirmed. It was particularly necessary to observe what was laid down at the time of the Revolution. It was then considered, that a divided religion, a distribution of authority with a foreign power, was inconsistent with the safety of the state. All the intermediate statutes had proceeded upon the same principle; and with reference to the oath itself, he thought no
14151414Sir W. Scott
1439régime143814371436 said, that if ever a right existed to complain of the course of a debate, it certainly was on the present occasion. They were now called on to
1439régime143814371436Sir James Mackintosh
 challenged the learned gentleman to point out in the preamble of the bill any such a statement.Sir J. Mackintosh
1424 said, that all parties must admit that the present bill went to work a great and important change in the constitution. He denied that it lay upon those who thought with himself, to prove the danger that would arise from admitting Catholics to all offices, except those of lord chancellor and lord lieutenant. On the contrary, he thought that danger was already proved by the old and recorded statutes of the realm, and that it lay with the proposers of this measure to show that the bulwarks which their ancestors had raised against strong and serious dangers could now with safety be removed. He denied that the acts excluding Catholics from office were enacted for any temporary occasion; on the contrary, they were permanently directed against the tenets of Roman Catholics. If an anti-catholic spirit did not pervade the whole of these laws, he did not know what their plain meaning was. They all expressly enacted tests against Catholic tenets, and lie held these acts as explanatory of the constitution. It had been said, that this was not a paper constitution: it was a constitution by law established, and he knew not how he could better show what was that constitution, than by showing what was the law by all the great statutes of the realm. He had heard it named a Titus Oates constitution. But, whatever name might be given to it, he knew it was a constitution founded in the glorious reign of king William, whose first speech from the throne in 1701 was drawn up by the great lord Somers. It was this glorious constitution which was now sought to be altered. This was the first time they were called upon to make that alteration which he felt to be a great and fearful change in the law of the land. If they attempted to invalidate this paper constitution as it was called, they might at the same time repeal Magna Charta, and the Act of Uniformity. He contended, that this was a qualified constitution which, from its lowest, up to its highest office,
1424Sir John Nicholl
, after regretting the domestic affliction which had deprived this question of the splendid eloquence of Mr. Plunkett, and complimenting the gentlemen who had supported it, moved the order of the day for taking the report of this bill into further consideration.Sir J. Newport
 said, that he had always looked upon the declaration against transubstantiation as an insurmountable barrier to protect the constitution against Catholics. He would not say that if this bill passed there would be an end to the constitution; but he would say, that if this bill passed they must, injustice to the Catholics, repeal the Corporation and test acts, and then indeed there would be an end to the constitution. He recollected the evils which England had suffered under Catholic domination and trembled at the repeal of laws which provided against their recurrence. It was in vain to talk of general satisfaction with these bills, when, before two stages were gone through, the higher order of the Catholic clergy were protesting against them. He was ready to give the Catholics full credit for an unabated attachment to their religion; but he must be allowed to say it was a religion of absurdity. The best proof of its intolerance would be found in the fashionable new Spanish constitution. This measure was introduced in a vain and false spirit of liberality; and they had now the clearest proof that they could never satisfy the Catholics, without violating the constitution. He had no objection to let Catholic counsel have silk gowns, though he could not suffer them upon the bench. But how would that benefit the great bulk of the people?Sir T. Lethbridge
1446, of Galway, contended, that the religion of Roman Catholics of live present day was not of that intolerant character which the hon. baronet attributed to it. He had seen marriages in Ireland between Roman Catholics and Protestants: he had been the Roman Catholic wife bringing up her child in the religion of her Protestant husband. The argument which Dr. Milner and his friends were so fond of putting in the front of their battle was,
1446Mr. Martin
1450144914481447 rose to make his promised motion, for the insertion of a clause in addition to the above, providing that nothing in tins act should extend to dispense with or repeal any of the laws now in force, excluding Catholics from sitting or voting in both houses of parliament. There were, he was aware, two parties to whom he had to address himself; one who thought that the measure should be unaccompanied by any qualifications or restrictions; and another, which formed, he hoped, the larger party in that House, who combined with a wish to make every due concession to the Catholics, a desire to obtain adequate securities for the maintenance of the Protestant establishment. Upon the former of these parties, he could not flatter himself with being able to make any impression, and therefore he had only to request their indulgence. But he begged the particular attention of the latter, while he stated the grounds of his motion; because he felt that if the bill were passed into a law, without the provision which he had to submit, all the other restrictions or securities which might be provided would prove utterly nugatory; for if such a degree of political power were put into the hands of the Catholics as this bill proposed, it would be quite absurd to suppose that they would not act upon the maxims and principles which bad always characterised the professors of that religion, or that they would not use this power for the purpose especially of repealing any restrictions disagreeable to their clergy. He was glad to find that the right hon. baronet who had undertaken the patronage of these two bills was disposed to propose, that the bill of Securities should be engrafted upon that for Concession. This, he thought, ought to have been the case from the beginning, in order to guard against the danger of having the concessions passed without those securities, against, which it appeared that some of the Catholic clergy and others, who had a lead among the
1450144914481447Mr. Bankes
1451 said, that having never before ventured to deliver his opinions upon this subject, he begged leave to trespass for a few moments upon the attention of the House. He had not abstained from addressing the House, because he did not strongly and anxiously feel its great importance, but because he had always seen it in such able hands, as suppressed any wish on his part to offer his sentiments to the House. He confessed, that he was one of those who considered the principle of restraint as of very little consequence; for if he looked only to the obligatory power of enactments; he should think that they had a very slender hold upon the powerful body of the Roman Catholics. When he knew, however, that the Catholics were governed by the same passions and interests as ourselves—that they were men who possessed a great stake in the country—and that they were as sincerely attached as the Protestant part of the community to all that was most valuable in the institutions of the country, he looked to those considerations rather than to any legislative enactments as the best security against the fancied dangers of the hon. gentleman. The hon. gentleman had said, that if the Catholics were admitted into parliament, they would immediately unite and overturn the whole Protestant power of this country. But, did the hon. gentleman really believe that the Protestants were grown so indifferent to the established religion, and had so little regard for all the national institutions, as to stand tamely by and see them overturned by a small
1451Mr. Calcraft
14661465l.l.1464146314621461146014591458145714561455 said, he agreed with those honourable members who considered this as the most important point of the bill. He agreed that it was that of which, if refused, the refusal would take much from the value of any other concessions, and of which, if conceded, the concession would enhance greatly their importance. He agreed that it was a point, the granting of which would form the key-stone, of that arch which they were erecting, and complete that incorporation of interests which was the object of those who took part in promoting this bill. [Hear, hear, hear!] He agreed, at the same time, that they who, with him, contended for the admission of Roman Catholics into parliament, were not entitled, from any previous
14661465l.l.1464146314621461146014591458145714561455Mr. Canning
 apprehended that the absence of restrictions might be followed by the same dangerous consequences which had in former times attended the free exercise of the Roman Catholic faith. He thought himself justified, upon every principle of the British constitution, in opposing the bill, and should vote for the amendment.Mr. Bright
1468 said, he dissented most decidedly from the amendment as being calculated to destroy all the spirit of that measure which, at length, was making rapid progress in the House. He feared that many who opposed the measure were adverse to the claims of the Catholics altogether; that they looked to that body, not as it was, but as it had been; that they had a horror of the Catholics of former times, and extended that feeling to the Catholics of the present day. He did think that the hon. member for Corfecastle had failed to make out such a case against the Irish Catholics as should disqualify them from holding seats in parliament. He did believe that the peace, the harmony, the social feeling of the people of- Ireland, depended upon the result of the measure before the House. Catholics-in the Irish parliament had been found to deserve well of their country. He could not but deplore the system under which, at the present day, Ireland was governed—a system, the tendency of which was, to engender party feeling, to tie a man's success rather to his creed than to his character; to give ascendency to one individual, dependency to another, and liberty to neither. He did believe that the good sense and the good feeling of the gentlemen of Ireland counteracted, in a great measure, the ill effect of the existing system; and that the inhabitants, Catholic and Protestant, had but one object—the improvement of their country. Still the code under which they lived was not the less objectionable. He trusted that the present system would soon terminate, as the evils of it were greater than any persons unacquainted with them could possibly imagine. The hon. member then took a review of the measures which had been enacted both against and in favour of the Catholics from the earliest period of their history down to the present time; and asserted that by such a review he had clearly proved his assertion. He implored the House to allow the present bill to pass; as by so doing its inestimable benefit would be conferred upon Ireland, and peace, harmony, and good-will, would be restored among its inhabitants. Whatever differences of opinion might exist among the Catholics at present he was certain that the day was
1468Mr. Grattan
 also gave his support to the amendment. He did not believe if the bill were passed, that the Catholics would cease to demand farther concessions; and thought that the removal of the existing restrictions would be attended with danger to the Protestant succession.Mr. Hart Davis
145414531452 said, he thought it right to express his sentiments on the present occasion, and to state the reasons which led him to oppose those from whom he had the misfortune to differ on the present occasion He would endeavour to Confine himself to the clause now before the committee, and abstain from going generally into the merits of the bill. He
145414531452The Speaker
1467 strongly advocated the claims of the Catholics. The boon they asked ought to have been granted twenty
1467Sir F. Blake
 said, he entertained the most sincere conviction, that the only issue of the present question which could be favourable to the interests either of Catholic or Protestant, was that for which he intended to vote. He could by no means agree with the hon. member for Corfe-castle, that Catholics, if admitted into parliament, would aim at measures dangerous to the Protestant establishment. In support of his opinion, he would state to the House a fact. At the time when the Test act was sent from the Commons to the Lords, a Catholic peer, the earl of Bristol, was found to advocate that very bill which excluded from office persons of his religion. The argument of the earl of Bristol upon that occasion was, that he was bound to address the House, not as a member of the church of Rome, but as a member of a Protestant parliament; and that although there were some particular points of the bill to which he, as a Catholic, could not conscientiously give his assent, yet he could not but advise the House, as a Protestant House of Parliament, to pass it. There was one other circumstance which the hon. bart, felt it his duty to press upon the House. Every man must feel that the question was a growing question, and one which would eventually succeed. He would ask those gentlemen who apprehended danger from the admission of Catholics to seats in the Houses of Parliament, whether that danger was likely to be lessened by keeping back that which must be eventually conceded.Sir T. Acland
 declared himself to be hostile to the Intercourse bill, and stated that the Catholic clergy were by no means satisfied with it.Mr. Hutchinson
 said, he strongly objected to any interference of a Protestant government over the administration of the Catholic Church. As a Protestant he felt objections to that interference or constitutional grounds, as strongly as a Catholic could feel against it or grounds of faith.Mr. M. Filzgerald
147714761475 rose to propose the amendments of which he had given notice The nature of his proposition was, to extend the exceptions of the bill to the privy council and to judicial offices. The House had last night pronounced its opinion, that the Catholics ought to be admitted to sit in both Houses 6f parliament. He did not stand there to impugn that decision—he bowed to it. But he would take the benefit of an admission which was made last night, namely, that the clause for admitting Catholics to parliament was the main objects of the bill; that the failure of that clause would render other parts of the bill or less valued but that the success of that clause would make other exceptions of minor importance. As the bill now stood, an alteration had been effected: in the exclusively Protestant character, of both House of Parliament since the Revolution. It still, however, left untouched the securities provided for the third estate; namely he inviolability of the Protestant succession to the throne of these realms? The ace for securing the succession excluded Papists from the throne, and fenced round the rights and dignities of the established church. It went fat ther—it not only required that the succession to the throne Should not be a papist, nut that he should forfeit his right of succession if he married a Catholic. To whom, then,
147714761475Mr. Peel
148214811480 said, that whatever parliament might now grant, he would, as far as his power extended, endeavour to carry into effect; and he would use Ins best efforts to induce the Catholics to receive with gratitude, the boon which it might please the legislature to bestow. If parliament thought fit, it was doubtless in its power to surround the measure with various qualifications; but if those qualifications had the tendency to keep alive a Catholic question in the country, and to destroy that conciliatory temper which now prevailed, he should be betraying the interests of the cause he professed to advocate, if he were to give up the ground he had previously taken, and adopt a proceeding which must have the effect of protracting this long-agitated question The two great principles on which his learned friend had argued the subject were; first, the question of safety with reference to the Protestant churchy and, next, the number of Catholics who, under this measure, would get into power Every one would go along with his learned friend, in admitting that one of the fundamental foundations
148214811480Lord Castlereagh
1483 argued, that the promoters of the bill, having acknowledged the ineligibility of Catholics to judicial situations, connected with ecclesiastical functions, would be guilty of inconsistency, if they did not follow up their principle by excluding them also from offices of temporal judicature, on the ground that the temporal courts took cognizance of many matters of an ecclesiastical nature. Besides, there were duties which the temporal judges had to perform, that a Catholic could not discharge. He could not, for instance, sit in the court of Delegates, upon appeals in spiritual matters, nor could he act as a coadjutor in the ecclesiastical courts. The supporters of the bill were also guilty of an absurdity in allowing Catholics to be eligible to the situations of privy councillors, and yet making it a misdemeanor in them to advise the sovereign upon matters of ecclesiastical
1483Mr. Wetherell
1489148814871486 then rose to propose an amendment, which he flattered himself would meet, with the general concurrence
1489148814871486Mr. Goulburn
 stated, that he had received letters from several most respectable Catholics in Ireland expressive of the satisfaction which they felt at the bill.Mr. Carew
14851484 agreed with the right hon. mover, that anomalies were not objections in the formation of a scheme of religious government. Upon such a subject it was almost impossible to reduce legislation to a symmetrical form. He took the present question to be altogether a question of compromise, of degree, of the arrangement of opposing feelings and inconveniences—a question upon which it became impossible to follow any one principle to its utmost logical consequence. The learned member had laid great stress upon the difficulty of enforcing the provision against advice to the sovereign from Catholic privy councillors in matters of ecclesiastical interest. The learned member asked, how was the giver of such advice to be detected. The question reminded him of a brief dialogue between the republic of Venice and the see of Rome. The republic of Venice once asked—where was the original deed of conveyance by which the keys of Heaven was vested in the disposal of the pope? To which his holiness replied, that it was upon the back of that instrument which gave the Adriatic sea to the dominion of the doge. Now, he would tell the learned gentleman how the advice which the Catholic privy councillor gave to his sovereign might be known, if he would only inform him how the advice which any other privy councillor gave was to be ascertained. It was stated, that the country had once undergone great dangers, from having a king who listened to Catholic advisers; but it should be recollected, that there was then no exclusion of a Catholic king; and yet the country had proved too strong both for king and ministers, when they entertained designs subversive of the religion of the state, and the liberties of the people. But what would be the consequence of admitting Catholics to seats in parliament, and yet excluding them from the situation of privy councilors? Why to introduce new principles into parliament. In the
14851484Sir James Mackintosh
1479 declared, that he, meant, nothing offensive to the Catholics, when he stated it to be his opinion that their exclusion from the degree of political power which they sought, was inconsistent with the safety of a state which was essentially, fundamentally, and per-
1479Sir J. Nicholl
1478 said, that many members of the Scotch church were also members of the privy council. How, then, was the argument of the right hon. gentleman made out, that because the sovereign and his wife were not to be of the church of Rome, therefore his ministers and councillors must all be of the church establishment? Tim inference was destroyed by the fact, that members of the church of Scotland were allowed to but the advisers of the Crown. This was the only case in which the British constitution rendered the sovereign responsible. He was liable to the loss or his Crown if he became a Papist. If it were meant to limit and restrain the sovereign in the choice of his privy councilors, why not say so at once? and the exclusion might in time extend even to particular individuals. As to the oath of the privy Councillor, it ought to be recollected that it was statutable: and when the special Wording of it was relied upon, the right hon. gentlemen seemed to have forgotten that it was framed and enacted before the Reformation. It was riot very creditable to this Protestant country, that it should exhibit such intolerance, while Catholic countries set it such an example of enlightened liberality. Abroad, differences of religion created no invidious distinction; and it was worthy of remark, that at the present moment we had a Protest-
1478Sir John Newport
1491ex post factoex post facto1490 said, that as the House had come to that stage when the enactments respecting the Roman Catholic clergy were to be considered, it became his duty to speak his opinion respecting them. Though he might offend some of the friends of the measure by the warm expression of his feeling, he assured them that nothing could be more foreign to his intention than to change the tone of the debate. He had been surrounded by several friends, deprecating the line which he had intended to pursue; he had received anonymous letters, cautioning him as to the injury he might do to the mea sure, and one even assuring him that he would injure his individual interest in the great city which he had the honour to represent. As to the latter threat, he had always assured the Catholics that he had never conceived himself entitled to their peculiar thanks, and that in supporting their claims, he felt he was supporting the interests and strength of the empire. Now, though he felt gratitude for the temper in which the present measure had been discussed by the opponents of the Catholics, and, though lie approved of the bill for removing disabilities, he must deprecate the enactments, which were called securities, with which it was now to be accompanied. He thought it right that the House should not call for any securities: it was his firm conviction that they were not necessary; but if they were necessary, were there no others to be
1491ex post factoex post facto1490Mr. Hutchinson
1492 was at a loss to know on what grounds the hon. gentleman would represent this measure, as harsh or derogatory, or why, in the discharge of his duty, he had given so odious a view of it. He could not regard the character of these clauses as penal in a high degree; indeed, scarcely as penal at all. They were rather, he contended, clauses of liberation; and gave an existence to them which they never had enjoyed before. Formerly the Catholic clergy of Ireland, and, strictly speaking, at the present moment, in their communications with the see of Rome, were in the constant habit of incurring penalties under the existing law, which might effect, not only their personal security, but their lives. He therefore looked at this as a measure of indulgence rather, which permitted that intercourse, with the sole provision of observing the terms of a certain oath, which being done, the communication became, in a measure, legalized instead of an offence. He contended, that it was the duty of the House to pass this measure without consulting the particular sentiments of individual clergymen, if members entertained, with himself, a conscientious belief of the beneficial advantages it would confer. He had the authority of the head, of the Catholic church for saying, that there was no solidity in the objection taken on the other side: thus he was legislating with the pope at his back [a laugh.] The general practice of
1492Lord Castlereagh
 adverted to what was called the irritation and unpopularity excited among the Catholics, in consequence of the proposed securities; and begged it to be understood, that no part of that irritation or unpopularity could be ascribed to him, or to those who had acted with him upon this subject, as they had nothing to do in proposing or framing such provisions. Those provisions, indeed, originated solely with the advocates for concession. At the same time, he thought it right to say, that the party with whom he had the honour to act, was not at all disposed to make common cause with such objections as had been urged that night against the provisions alluded to, or to obstruct the measure under consideration, by contributing to excite irritation against it, upon such grounds as had been stated.Mr. Peel
1493 argued, that while the House endeavoured to satisfy the alarms of the Protestant, it ought to take care not to trench upon the feelings, consciences, or even prejudices, of the Catholic. His objection to the oath in the bill was, that in the present measure no benefit was conferred on the clergy; while a security was demanded from them for a privilege granted to the laity. In the present deserted state of Ireland, deprived of its resident nobility and gentry, many parts of the country depended for tranquillity upon the unbought zeal and good principles of the Catholic clergy. With regard to the nomination to Catholic benefices, he was decidedly hostile to any
1493Mr. M. Fitzgerald
 of Galway, said, that if there was one county in Ireland more likely than another to return a Catholic representative to that House, it was the county he represented. That consideration, however, would not prevent him from supporting both the bills.Mr. Martin,
 said, that, in his opinion, it would be better not to insist upon the oath being taken by those at present in holy orders. There might he many conscientious persons, by whom it might be considered as a severe penalty; but the same argument would not apply to those who might take up holy orders in future, because they would then take them with a knowledge that they would be afterwards obliged to conform to the present act.Mr. Baring
 expressed his conviction that the feeling of all the well-disposed Catholic population of Ireland was favourable to the bill. The hon. member read a letter from a Catholic of the highest character, in which the Catholics were stated to be thankful to the legislature for the kind concessions which were extended to them. He should support the second bill, not because he apprehended danger from the Catholics, but because he wished to remove the fears and apprehensions of the Protestants.Mr. S. Rice
 felt himself called upon to declare, that unless the securities proposed were acceded to, he could not reconcile it to his sense of duty to vote for the enactment of the concessions. The Protestants, by agreeing to those concessions, had sacrificed much of interest, as well as of prejudice, and, was the House to be told that the Catholics would not in return sacrifice any thing? But it was clearly understood from the outset of these measures, that both should be adopted for the purpose of satisfying the Protestant as well as the Catholic; and was it possible to suppose that, after the measure of concession had made such progress, it could be seriously intended or desired to violate that understanding by opposing the measure of securities? If any man could meditate such a step, he was sure that failure must be his fate: for who could be found to sanction an attempt to deprive the Protestant of that price which it was agreed he should be paid for conceding to the wishes of the Catholic? For his own part, he trusted that the conduct which he had uniformly pursued with regard to this measure, placed him above the suspicion of participating in the slightest degree in such an act of treachery. He had done enough, he hoped, to prove that he was most sincerely desirous of effecting the emancipation of his Catholic fellow-subjects from the restrictions under which they laboured; but, if a successful attempt should be made to detach from the bill those clauses, which would have the effect of reconciling the Protestant part of the community to the measure, from that moment, with the same hearty sincerity with which he had sacrificed every consideration to do justice to the Catholics, he would altogether reject the bill, which, passed in that mutilated state, would be a fraud upon the Protestants.Mr. Canning
 spoke in favour of the proposed securities, because, among other reasons, the faith of the House was pledged to enact those securities in conjunction with the bill of Concession; therefore, if the one were rejected, he should feel himself bound to vote against the latter.Dr. Phillimore
1495 said, he had been engaged in a very extensive correspondence
1495Mr. P. Moore
 was convinced that the; measure would be gratefully received by the Catholics of Ireland, and that it would promote the tranquillity and security of the country.Colonel Bagwell
1494 said; that if lie were really disposed to procure the rejection of the measure, he thought he could not more effectually promote such an object than
1494Sir G. Hill
1496 did not mean t object to the motion; and when the House had the papers before
1496The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 expressed his decided disapprobation of the detention of Buonaparté. It was disgraceful to this country? that she should be made the gaoler of the allied powers; not for any object having the security of the state in view, but evidently in furtherance of those despotic principles which were avowed by the Holy Alliance.Mr. Hutchinson
 said, he should postpone his opposition to the bill; until the third reading, when he hoped it would be seriously discussed. He was informed that the measure was disagreeable to the Catholics of Ireland, and he could not see how they could be contented with that part which had formed the second separate bill.Sir T. Lethbridge
 of Galway, said, he had several letters from leading Catholics, expressing themselves satisfied with whatever the House should agree to on this subject; and also their confidence that the clergy would be finally reconciled to it. He understood that Mr. O'Connell, who wished to get up an aggregate meeting in Dublin, could not get nine persons to sign the requisition. Mr. O'Connell might naturally regard the measure with no particular anxiety, as he might feel convinced that if it rained offices as thick as bail, one would never Tall on his head.Mr. Martin,
1500 rose to express a strong doubt as to the propriety of the course which his hon. friend was pursuing. No individual could feel more deeply than himself the expediency of following up the bills before the House, by some such measure as that which his hon. friend was desirous of effecting; but the question was, whether this was the proper moment for proposing it? He had no doubt that, if the subject were brought forward at the seasonable moment, it would meet with that general concurrence, which would afford the best pledge to the Catholic clergy of the desire of parliament to contribute to their comfort. The motion was inadequate to its object; for it could only be rendered effective through a recommendation from the Crown. If the clause proposed to be brought up were now agreed to, the measure could not be final; for they would still have to determine the scale of expenditure. So far from forwarding the object in view the proposition would have the effect of placing-the measure in a retrograde position. Besides, it would
1500Lord Castlereagh
 deprecated the introduction of the measure at any time, without a perfect understanding: between the Catholic clergy and the government.Mr. Hutchinson
ss.1512d.s.s.s.d.,s.s.,l.l.1511must.mayl.l.,151015091508d.s.d.s.1507s.d.s.150615051504 said:—I cannot agree to the resolutions proposed, and still less to the improvements upon them suggested by the noble lord; because one of them, so far from being founded on the evidence given before the committee, is in direct opposition to that evidence. Another objection which weighs very strongly on my mind, as well against the resolutions as some passages of the report itself, is, that both of them betray too great a leaning to the principles laid down in the petition of certain merchants of this metropolis, presented last session, which called upon this House to take off "all duties merely protective against foreign competition." In conformity to this doctrine, it is now proposed to diminish the protection hitherto given to our colonies
ss.1512d.s.s.s.d.,s.s.,l.l.1511must.mayl.l.,151015091508d.s.d.s.1507s.d.s.150615051504Mr. Marryat
 regretted that the hon. baronet had not been in his place upon a former night; for in that case he would have heard a succession of Irish members bearing testimony to the general satisfaction which the measure gave to the loyal and intelligent Irish Catholics. It no doubt would give dissatisfaction to others; for it would reduce some who possessed an unworthy desire of power to a state of deserved insignificance.Mr. Abercromby
1499ad idem1498 rose to propose a clause to which he had already called the attention of the House, with regard to a provision for the Catholic clergy. From the manner in which this proposition was received,
1499ad idem1498Mr. Croker
 denied that this country had been guilty of the slightest breach of faith. It was a well-known fact, that the night before Napoleon surrendered himself, he held a council of war, or rather of safety, in which the question was discussed, whether Napoleon had any possible chance of escape? It was decided that he had not. Napoleon, who judged with caution, saw no means of safety but in surrendering himself to a British officer. He surrendered himself with reluctance. When he came on board the English vessel, he was told that no treaty could be made with him, and that he must wait the final determination of the English government. If the hon. member should bring the question before the House in.-a more formal shape, he would prove, to the satisfaction of the House, that Napoleon had been fairly hunted into the toils, and that the honour of the country throughout the whole of the transaction was free from reproach.Mr. Croker
 said, that his object was, in a great measure, gained, by the admission of the principle which he proposed; and therefore, with the leave of the House, he would withdraw it.Mr. Croker
1497 said, that he thought the
1497Mr. Hume
l. rose to move for an account of the expenses of the detention of Buonapaté at St. Helena. If it were right to detain Napoleon at all, he would contend, that, in the present financial contend, that, in the present financial difficulties of the country, he might be safely detained at one-tenth of the present expense. He had an estimate of those expenses for 1819, and he was not aware of any reduction since. It amounted to considerably more than 400,000l.Mr. Hume
1503s.l.1502l.1501 called its attention to the report of the committee on the Timber Duties, and said he had now to propose such resolutions as from that report the commercial interests of the country appeared to require. It was known to the House, that previously to 1809, a supply of timber was obtained almost exclusively from the north of Europe. Subsequently the supply was partly obtained from the north of Europe, and partly from our North American colonies. It was impossible to look at this subject without perceiving, that in the course of no very long time, if the present system was continued, one of the two must become predominant, and the other completely annihilated. The annual importation of timber, from 1803 to 1806 from the north of Europe, was as follows:—Fir timber 218,857 loads; deals 45,938. From 1816 to 1819, there had been a great diminution in the annual imports from the North. Their amount was—Fir timber 93,659 loads; deals 21,824. On, both, it would be seen that the reduction considerably
1503s.l.1502l.1501Mr. Wallace
 said, that as this was the first opportunity Which presented itself since he had been in that House, for alluding to the subject of Buonaparté's confinement, he wished to avail himself of it for entering his most solemn protest against that act [A laugh]. Hon. gentlemen might laugh, but he was speaking the sentiments of every generous man in Europe. His detention was contrary to every feeling of generosity and humanity, if they considered how he was separated from his family, and even from his infant child. It was the more ungenerous, when we considered that he had put himself voluntarily under our protection. He (sir R. Wilson) had it from an individual who made him the offer of taking him to America, that he refused, because he preferred throwing himself upon the good faith of England. If he had not done this, he might have escaped, for the vessel in which he was offered to be conveyed afterwards, arrived safe in America. The conduct which had. been subsequently pursued towards him was a national dishonour: and if ever France should regain her freedom, although she would never receive him as her sovereign, yet he was convinced that she would not suffer him to be detained in his present situation.Sir R. Wilson
s.s. contended, that the Canada trade, was an immense tax upon this country, and seemed to be kept up for the purpose of working ships which were unfit for any other service. The policy pursued was quite at variance with true commercial principles. The fair course would be, to lay a duty of 50s.s.Lord Althorp
 of Galway, in moving the second reading of this bill, observed, that there could be no doubt of the broad principle, that a prisoner charged with any offence ought to have the same means of defence that the prosecutor had of attack. In treason, the prisoner was allowed counsel; but not in the crime next in degree, capital felony. It had been said, that the court was always counsel for the prisoner. On the contrary, he contended, not only that they were not, so, but that they ought not, and could not be so. Again, adverting to the trial of Bellingham, he maintained, that the failure of Bellingham to obtain a postponement of his trial, on an affidavit stating the necessary absence of a material witness, was attributable to his not having counsel to enforce his claim. The hon. member proceeded to state the circumstances of the apprehension of an Irishman for supposed burglary, and his trial at Croydon, in support of his argument as to the justice of affording prisoners charged with capital offences counsel in all cases, and concluded by moving the second reading of the bill.Mr. Martin,
1513 felt great reluctance in opposing the motion; because he had no doubt that the hon. member intended to confer a benefit on those unhappy persons who were charged with capital offences. From his experience in courts of justice, he took upon himself to declare, that the proposition would operate greatly to the prejudice of those persons. As to the circumstances of Bellingham's trial, they would in no way have been altered, even had the bill proposed by the hon. member, been in existence; for when an application, for delay, founded on an affidavit, was made in a capital case, counsel were always heard for the
1513The Solicitor General
 said, that if it could be shown that the innocent had suffered, or that justice had not been ad ministered because prisoners were not al lowed counsel, he would be ready to sup port the bill; but all persons conversant with the subject, were aware, that every assistance was afforded to prisoners upon their defence. If the bill were to be en tertained upon theoretical grounds, he knew not where the principle could stop. Trial by jury might be abolished upon theory; for certainly nothing at the first view appeared so repugnant to reason as to say, that twelve men should be unanimous in. every case of justice. It was found, however, that the system worked well in practice.The Attorney General
15179s.d.;s.l. said, that nothing could be more proper, than that, before they proceeded to vote money, they should lay down reasons for doing so. The hon. gentleman, who was never to be named without gratitude, for his efforts in throwing light on the enormous expenditure of the country, had put before them, in a distinct shape, that which was universally admitted, namely, that salaries had been increased on account of the depreciation of the currency, and that now that the currency was brought back to its old standard, the House should reconsider those salaries. Yet, when the House was called upon to recognise this principle, they were told, that going into a committee of supply was not the time. The remark of the noble lord, that we had not-yet gone back to a metallic standard, was rather hypercritical. On the 1st of May, they might get gold at the Bank at the rate of 315179s.d.;s.l.Mr. Baring
 thought that the object of the hon. member might be better attained, by making specific propositions on the separate estimates, than by calling upon the House to come to a general sweeping resolution.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l.1521l. bore testimony to the obligations of the army, and of the country in general, to the services of the illustrious person at the head of the military establishment. He was, however, convinced, that a considerable saving might be made in our military establishment; if not to the extent stated by his hon. friend. The commander-in-chief and staff in Ireland, he thought, should be reduced, which would save about 4,000l.l.1521l.Colonel Davies
 observed, that if they were to have a court in Ireland they must countenance the appointment of high offices in order to support its dignity. The hon. baronet had suggested last year that the office of lord lieutenant might be abolished—a suggestion that had excited considerable alarm in Ireland.Mr. Grant
 entered into a description of the duties attached to the office in peace and war, and contended that, from the nature of those duties, it was impossible they could be performed by the Bank. He stated the expense of the establishment, from 1792 to the present time, for the purpose of showing that, since he was connected with the office, much had been done in the way of retrenchment. He had made many reductions, and he doubted not but that he should be able to effect still more. Several accounts which were connected with the late war were in the office. This rendered it necessary to retain clerks, who would not otherwise be employed. When those accounts, were audited and passed, the hon. gentleman would see a very considerable reduction; but it would be the worst possible policy to dismiss those clerks before the accounts were settled.Sir C. Long
 said, he should have been much more satisfied with the amendment, if it had proposed a smaller reduction. He was ready to acknowledge the benefits which had accrued to the nation from the exertions of our gallant army; but in these times, when even the public creditor was alarmed, it was necessary that every practicable saving should be made, and that no person should be employed by the state whose services were not absolutely necessary.Mr.J. Smith
dsl.l.l. in consequence of a feeling expressed by his hon. friends around him, wished to withdraw his amendment, and to substitute another in its place, proposing a reduction of 10,000dsl.l.l.Mr. Hume,
l.l.l.,1523l.l.l. objected to the expense of maintaining this establishment. The amount which annually passed through the pay-master's hands was from six to ten millions, and it cost the country 28,000l.l.l.,1523l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 maintained, that the establishments of Ireland might be reduced without inconvenience to the service. They exceeded, past all reason, the corresponding establishments of this country.Mr. Hume
l.l.,l.,l.l.l.l.l.,l.1519l.ll.l.l.l.l.l.,l.,1518l.s.l. objected to the amount of this vote. With regard to the allowance to the commander in chief, he considered it enormous, and disproportionate to the distressed circumstances of the country. From 1794, up to 1815, the pay of the commander in chief was only 9 guineas a day. It was now increased to 16l.l.,l.,l.l.l.l.l.,l.1519l.ll.l.l.l.l.l.,l.,1518l.s.l.Mr. Hume
l.l.,l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1515 said, that as the House was about to resolve itself into a committee of supply, in which the Army Estimates were to be considered, he felt it his duty to
l.l.,l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1515Mr. Hume
1516 said, he had now to propose a motion, on which he should take the sense of the House, and he intreated them to consider how much the salaries of offices had been increased since 1797. There was not an individual who was hot aware of the causes of the increase. The motion which he should submit to the House went to pledge them to revise all salaries which bad been increased since 1797. He then moved, as an amendment, That the progressive increase of Salaries
1516Mr. Hume
 said, it was not against the effective force of the army, but against the superfluous offices attached to it that he directed his opposition. The commander of the forces in Ireland and the adjutant-generals and their assistants appeared to him to be kept up at an unnecessary expense, and he should, therefore, vote for their abolition.Mr. O'Grady
l. thought that the appointment of a separate commander of the forces for Ireland, with the staff by which that officer stood surrounded, was a measure of blameable expense. The duty might be perfectly well performed by an officer having the rank of lieutenant-general, and such an alteration would be attended with a considerable saving. The whole establishment of Ireland was formed upon an Extravagant scale, for there were more general officers employed to command 20,000 men in that country, than sufficed for 27,000 in England. He concluded by proposing to reduce the grant to 20,479l.Sir H. Parnell
1514 said, he was al-way ready to admit that the general proceedings of courts of justice in this country were irreproachable; but he was surprised that his learned friend should have argued this question as if the proposed bill were one which had been tried, and had operated unfavourably for a prisoner. His learned friend well knew that, before the statute of William, allowing counsel in cases of treason, the law refused counsel to prisoners in all criminal cases. The statute of William was the first good fruit which grew out of the Revolution. Its benefit was universally felt as a safeguard for the subject; and he was at a loss to conceive why the same advantage which accrued to a prisoner in cases of treason, out of this privilege, would not also be felt in the same manner in other cases. It was remarkable that all the arguments used by his learned friend against the motion, had been used at the time of the passing of the statute of William. He rather
1514Sir James Mackintosh
 said, that an objection occurred to him, upon the score of time. If two counsel were allowed on each side upon every case, it might not be unfair to suppose that counsellor Bore'em on the one and counsellor Bother'em on the other, would each speak for two hours, and this taking the number of cases, at 3,000, would amount to 12,000 hours annually.Sir J. Yorke
 said, that the amendment referred not only to the estimates which were to come before them, but to every department of the state. It would be improper, therefore, to adopt so sweeping a proposition in reference to a particular question, instead of having a regular discussion on it after proper notice. The amendment, too, affirmed one thing, of which he was utterly ignorant, namely, that a metallic currency had been established; Preparations, indeed, had been made for establishing it. As to prices, agricultural: produce had for some time been low, but1-house-rent, wearing apparel, and manufactures in general, were still as high as they had been.Lord Palmerston
1520 said, that the question upon which he was at issue with the hon. member was rather a question of principle, than a question of detail; for unless he could show that the principles upon which the military establishment of the country was conducted in 1792, were applicable to the present times, it was futile to compare the details of the present expenditure with those of 1792. Now, he contended, that the military system of 1792, instead of being a guide to direct their course, was rather a beacon to avoid. It was extremely unfit even for the period at which it existed; still less was it applicable to the present state of Europe. Our army in 1792, taking it in the aggregate, and without reference to the courage and character of the officers and men, was one of the worst appointed armies in Europe. Great improvements
1520Lord Palmerston
 said, that a commander of the forces in Ireland was indispensable. When they considered the distance between Dublin and this metropolis, it would be seen that the delay and inconvenience of correspondence would be subversive of order and discipline, it then became a question, how the office of commander of the forces was to be remunerated. The committee would see, that the individual who held it was subjected to heavy expenses, in consequence of being obliged to receive the very best company at his table, and that the various other duties of his office led him into large expenditures.Lord Palmerston
 supported the opinions and the statements of his hon. colleague. He considered the resolutions read by the right hon. baronet to have been partially selected, and did not regard them as giving a correct idea of the sentiments of the Catholics of Ireland.Mr. Fitzgibbon
15331532 said, that standing there as the unworthy representative of a i family who had always stood up in support of flip Catholic claims—advocating that great and righteous cause upon the principles of entire and unqualified emancipation—he wished to offer a few observations to the House, in explanation of the line of conduct which he meant to pursue. It was impossible but that a measure carrying with it heavy penal enactments, should meet with some who objected to it; and he could not, while he had a seat in that House, submit that such persons should be charged, as tools of faction, as riotous spirits, and public agitators. Because, if they were to be so denominated, he also must be a tool of faction and an agitator; for he had joined in the objections which had called down upon them those reproachful epithets. Could it be said, that Mr. Roche, the gentleman who presided at the Limerick meeting, was one of this description of persons? The hon. member here eulogised the character of, that gentleman. He thought it very likely that all the Irish clergy might eventually object to take the required oaths; therefore, he could not suffer that those gentlemen should by anticipation be aspersed, because they opposed what he apprehended was a highly penal enactment. He believed that it was quite in the newer of the noble lord, and the
15331532Mr. Hutchinson
15351534 of Dublin, expressed his anxiety to deliver his sentiments on a bill, the latter part of which, by a curious infelicity in legislation, went to deprive the measure of all the advantages promised in the first part. He apologised to the House for going over again a track which had already been so beaten: to him it was an unpleasant task, and nothing but his veneration for the Protestant establishment, and his anxiety for the connexion of Ireland with this country, could force him to trespass on the attention of the House. He professed that in ardent wishes for the welfare of every class of his fellow-countrymen, he was not inferior to the right hon. gentleman who brought the measure before them; and he would further say, that he brought with him a degree of experience of the wishes and feelings of the Protestants of Ireland, which the retired habits, or the fastidious taste of that right hon. gentleman prevented his acquiring. In the name of that profession to which they both be longed, and whose sentiments the right hon. gentleman had misrepresented, he disclaimed his unauthorized advocacy. That this was not mere assertion would be seen by a reference to the petitions on their table—and particularly by the Protestant petition from the second city of the empire, which he had the honour to represent. If those petitions were looked into, the House would see not only noblemen and gentlemen of the highest respectability, but several members of the profession of the law, equal in talents and reputation to the right hon. gentleman himself; and in their names he protested against declarations contrary to their sentiments.—The hon. and learned
15351534Mr. Ellis,
15371536 said, he had no intention of vindicating the right hon. gentleman who introduced this measure, from what he conceived a most unreasonable attack which the hon. and learned gentleman had made upon him in his absence. He declared himself to be no more disposed to take the feelings of the Protestants of Ireland from the hon. and learned gentleman, than he was to take the feelings of the Catholics from that, nameless barrister, that mushroom orator, as the hon. and learned gentleman had called him—who, eloquent as he might be—active as they all knew he was—he was persuaded did not, in the ravings of his eloquence, speak the true and honest feelings of the Irish Catholics. It was on that account that, although he knew Mr. O'Connell was dissatisfied—although he knew that Mr. O'Connell
15371536Mr. Robinson
1539 said, that his hon. friend had alluded to the danger that might result from this bill, if at any future period there should be a monarch oh the throne who, though professing the Protestant
1539Lord Binning
154215411540 commenced by alluding to an argument advanced by the hon. member for Limerick, who had called upon them, as they valued their good faith, to observe the articles of the capitulation of Limerick. That was the first time he had ever heard such an argument brought forward. If that were made the ground of the question, the House had no discretion to exercise; but he would maintain, that, up to the present moment, they were unfettered by the question of good faith. There was but one article in the treaty of Limerick which referred to the state of the Roman Catholics generally, and that was the first. But what did it amount to? Their majesties undertook to engage that the Roman Catholics should enjoy every privilege with respect to the exercise of their religion which they possessed in the reign of Charles 2nd, and to exert themselves to obtain for them from parliament such further indulgence as they might be willing to concede. There was not a word in this of political privilege; the privilege alluded to, referred, according to the terms of the article itself, to the exercise of their religion. There were two considerations upon which he chiefly rested his objections to the bill. In the first place, fie objected to it, because it was a material change in the constitution of the country. He did not consider that objection as fatal in itself; but he felt that every change of so extensive a nature was to be regarded with alarm and anxiety. They could not name a succession of kings, or an important event since the Reformation, which did not bring the Roman Catholic religion before their minds; therefore, it was not unimportant to consider what relation that religion should bear to the state in future. There
154215411540Mr. Peel
Churchwardens!Vestries—"Nunc reges, atque tetrarchas, "Omnia magna loquens;—Nunc"—Churchwardens!Vestries1546"Methinks I see my Duigenan here anew!" [Laughter.]"The tone, the topics opening to my view,154515441543 observed, that his right hon. friend (Mr. Peel) who had taken so active a part against the bill, complained, that those who took the same side as himself laboured under great disadvantages; seeing that they were unfairly called upon to become the champions of those laws which had existed against the Catholics from the Reformation to the present time. But he (Mr. C.) felt, on the other hand, that those who took that part in favour of the bill, which, from conviction, he had found himself compelled to take, were placed in a situation equally difficult; for it was assumed, that every argument Which they brought forward was an attempt to disturb the peace which had hitherto prevailed, and to launch out into an untried sea of speculation. He claimed then for the advocates of the bill, that the system which they wished to introduce should be compared, not with an uniform and recognised system, but with admitted anomalies, with the state of things which had produced the recent innovations. His right hon. friend deprecated a recurrence to that period when the laws against the Catholics had been in their full force. He would not resist the appeal, because he felt unwilling at the close of a debate which had been marked by such unexampled moderation, to create any new source of contention, or to send forth the bill to the country as a firebrand instead of an extinguisher of discord. If, like his right
Churchwardens!Vestries—"Nunc reges, atque tetrarchas, "Omnia magna loquens;—Nunc"—Churchwardens!Vestries1546"Methinks I see my Duigenan here anew!" [Laughter.]"The tone, the topics opening to my view,154515441543Mr. Canning
1538 said, he opposed the admission of the Catholics to political power, on the same principles which had led him for the first fourteen years to resist their claims to the utmost of his power. To show the danger which might
1538Mr. Goulburn
1530 supported the bill. Alluding to the aggregate meeting which had been held on the subject of the bills in Limerick, he observed, that the resolutions there carried in opposition to them were not of native growth; they had been introduced by individuals who were not residents of the county, and originated in factious opposition. He could not consi-
1530Mr. O'Grady
1531 said, that however unpalatable it might be to the House to hear the merits of one class of gentlemen or another canvassed in that place, yet he was driven into the present discussion by the want of candour which had been evinced by the right hon. baronet. Why did he not, when he produced the resolutions to the House, go also into the protest which accompanied them. He had merely adverted to the number of signatures, without acknowledging one fact as to the respectability and character of those who affixed them. The meeting at Limerick was not a meeting of the clergy of the diocese, but of those Roman Catholic clergymen who happened to be assembled in that town. With the permission of the House he would read a letter which he had received from one of the very persons who signed the violent resolutions, to show that the sentiments spoken by them were not generally entertained. The writer of the letter owned that many of his Catholic brethren were willing to receive emancipation upon the terms provided by Mr. Plunkett's bill. This was not the opinion of one who supported that measure, but who had signed those violent resolutions which had been quoted to the House. In another letter which he had received from Ireland, it was stated, that if the measure were passed into a, law, those troublesome spirits and tools of faction who now agitated the country, would be at once put down. He begged to remind the House, that the dissatisfaction of the Roman Catholic clergy of Ireland had arisen, in a great measure, from a clause in the original bill, by which they were subjected, in certain cases, to the
1531Mr. Spring Rice
1528in temporalibus?in spiritualibus,1527l.152615251524 rose. He confessed that, as far as he was able to form a judgment of the bill, the expectations of any improvement of it, so as to obviate the objections to which it had been open, had not been realized. After commitments and re-commitments, and all the elaborate attention which had been bestowed upon it, the bill came before them worse, than it was before. In the instances of former bills, for the same purpose, they had dissatisfied one party only; but by this bill all sides were dissatisfied; the party who objected to it, and those whom it was intended to conciliate. The other party, the House, had an equal reason to be dissatisfied. They had had no success in the manufactory of conci-
1528in temporalibus?in spiritualibus,1527l.152615251524Sir William Scott
1529 considered this bill to be most revolutionary in its character, as it went to put down the ancient landmarks of the constitution, and to recognise, for the first time, a right of interference with the subjects of this country on the part of the see of Rome. He had heard it argued on this occasion, that the constitution of this country was not essentially Protestant. Taking the constitution as it was established at the Revolution, he showed that the Bill of Rights had been particularly directed against popery. In that bill the oaths of allegiance and supremacy were enacted which were now to be altered. It was provided by that bill, that this country must be governed by a Protestant prince, and also, that that Protestant prince must have Protestant counsellors. But the bill before the House went to do away with Protestant counsellors by opening the door to Catholics. It put both the property and the religion of the country in peril: it admitted Catholics to be members of the privy council, to be governors of colonies, and what was still more tremendous, it allowed them to act as sheriffs, and gave them seats in parliament. He felt alarm for the use that might be made of the power given to the Catholics acting as sheriffs in Ireland: they would have the right of selecting juries, and, above all, they would be authorized to return members who were elected to sit in that House. He thought the danger of admitting Catholics to parliament had been undervalued, and considered the measure to be revolutionary, because, while it relieved the Catholic from the old oath of supremacy, it required the Protestant to take it. No Catholic was to take the old oath; and after this bill had passed, he did not see how any Protestant could conscientiously swear, "that the pope neither had nor ought to have any power in this realm." His conviction was, thus this bill would not prove a measure of conciliation. The Roman Catholic clergy and
1529Sir George Hill
 pledged himself to bring the subject before the House at as early a period as possible.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, he had no objection to go into a committee, to re-consider the subject. The question divided itself into two points—namely, whether any good grounds could be stated for making a general distinction between England and Scotland; and if so, to what extent that distinction ought to be allowed.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
d.d.s. said, he had on a former occasion, moved a string of resolutions relative to the duty on Scotch barley, which appeared to him to be most unfair and disproportionate, with reference to the barley of this country. He had done so, because he conceived, that the bad quality of the Scotch barley required a considerable reduction of the duty. With regard to the discussion of that night, he should certainly give his vote for the motion; for by repealing the tax there would be a saving of 1d.d.s.Lord A. Hamilton
8 said, the noble lord had asked his opinion on this subject, and he would endeavour to answer him. The Scotch gentlemen, it should seem, were expected to vote one way on one night, and another way upon another. The chancellor of the exchequer had dextrously held out a sort of hope, that, if those hon. members would not vote against him to-night, he would do something for them at a future opportunity; but he advised them to put no trust in the right hon. gentleman. If the friends of economy and retrenchment in all departments of the public expenditure would this evening keep together, there could be no doubt they would carry their question; but if they split and separated, ministers would take advantage of their disunion. For himself, he had been uniformly in favour of the repeal of every tax, so long as it could be with propriety reduced; and though he highly approved of the proposed repeal, he was of opinion, that it did not do so much for the agricul-
8Mr. Coke
 in allusion to a former speech of Mr. Huskisson, contended, that the agricultural distress was now general. The right hon. gentleman was speaking on the experience of the western part of Sussex, where the farmers were not in an absolute state of ruin; but if he looked to the eastern parts of the same county, there he would find the ruin complete. He would there find many hundred acres which he might occupy merely on paying the poor rates and taxes, and this not very bad land, or land newly brought into tillage, but land which had been cultivated for centuries. The distress did not fall on the farmers alone. The moderate landed proprietors suffered as much. They had their farms thrown back upon their hands, and were obliged to get them tilled by hired bailiffs, who had no interest in them. It had been asked how, if this tax was repealed, the interest of the debt could be paid? The chancellor of the exchequer had told them, that this year there was a saving of a million. The country would not find any benefit from, this, unless there was a proportionate reduction of taxes. It was better therefore to repeal the tax in question, than to add in some small degree to the inefficient Sinking Fund, by which the country had been for a long time humbugged. The agriculturists could not expect relief from the fund holders. They must therefore look to ministers. If an absolute reduction of the amount of taxes could not be suffered, he should propose a limited property tax of two per cent, by which three millions might be raised; other taxes to an equal amount being repealed. It had been said, that if this tax was repealed, his majesty's ministers would resign. He did not wish to see them resign their places, he only wished them to resign a few of their oppressive taxes.Sir J. Shelley,
11109l. observed, that the resolution of gentlemen on the other side to persist in the course of proceeding, of which the repeal of the malt tax seemed to form a part, appeared to be founded on three positions: the first, that we could go on with 1,500,00011109l.The Hon. J. W. Ward
12l. agreed with the hon. gentleman who had just spoken, but more particularly on the subject of the sinking fund. As for the fallacy to which the hon. gentleman had adverted, he wished to get rid of that part of the sinking fund that was kept up by borrowing; for this part of the system must of necessity be a fallacy. The only sinking fund that could ever be applicable to the reduction of the debt, must be the surplus of the income above the expenditure of the country; and, from the finance papers before the House, it certainly did appear, that there was at this moment a clear, actual, and real sinking fund. If, however, the fact were otherwise, it behoved ministers to establish one, and an efficient one too, without a day's delay. He was one of those who, in 1819, gave their consent and support to the imposition of certain new taxes, amounting to 3,500,00012l.Mr. Grenfell
l.l.151413 declared, that he never heard in that House any recommendation to violate the public faith, or to commit any spoliation upon the public creditor: but he had heard much in that House,
l.l.151413Mr. Lockhart
felo de se.17l.16s.quantum said, that after [the fullest examination which he could give this subject, he had come to a conclusion opposite to that of the hon. member who had last spoken. That he felt deeply for the distress under which agriculture laboured, he could assure the House; but then his first inquiry referred to the felo de se.17l.16s.quantumMr. John Smith
18 could not feel himself justified in supporting the repeal of this fax, unless he were assured, by those who
18Sir J. Boughey
l.l. wished, that the hon. gentleman who spoke last but one, instead of merely talking about his feeling for agricultural distress, would afford relief to the farmer by some practical measure. With regard to the existence of that distress, there could be no doubt. The committee which was pursuing its labours up stairs, was not designed to convince the farmers of their wants, or the landlords of the sufferings of their tenants, but, to satisfy and overcome the unbelief of ministers. On the subject of alleviation, he admitted, that to lower the poor rates would afford great relief; but it was still a mystery how that desirable object was to be effected. There was a great difference between the condition of the fund holder and of the landowner; the fundholder received his 100l.l.Mr. Curwen
l.l.19 of Wiltshire, earnestly recommended, that nothing should be done to destroy or to endanger the connexion between the landowner and the fund-holder. He was well convinced, that the best customers of the manufacturers were the farmers, and the best customers of the farmers the manufacturers. The interests of the productive classes of the country
l.l.19Mr. Benett,
20 said, he was as sensible as any member, of the difficulties tinder which the agriculturists laboured, and would go as far as any other to relieve them. The present measure, however, he did not think calculated for their relief. Indeed, no honourable member
20Mr. Keith Douglas
21 said, that he was one of those who admitted the existence of great agricultural distress; at the same time he could not deny, that there were many taxes, the abolition of which would be of more importance to the community than that which was now sought to be repealed. The repeal of many of these taxes was loudly called for by the present situation of the country; yet he felt himself bound to vote for the repeal of the tax. Considering the present state of the country and of Europe, he would say, that it ought to be repealed; for he was convinced, that if the resources of government were diminished their vigilance would be increased. It was said, that this principle of reduction began at the wrong end; that the House had first voted the men, and it would be necessary to vote the money for their support. He was not one of those who had joined in such large votes; but let those who so voted look to it; for he considered, that if this burden was removed, reductions might be afterwards made in those estimates which were to come, fully equal to its amount. He called, then, upon those members who were favourable to the repeal of the tax, and who might have joined in the vote for the large military force, to look to every item which was yet unvoted. All classes were distressed; and he was satisfied that the only effectual mode of relief—the only means to place this country in the proud situation in which she had been accustomed to stand, and which, he trusted she would long continue to hold among the nations of Europe, would be, effectual economy and retrenchment. He was not one of those who would tax the funds to relieve the land, or the land to relieve the funds. The interests of both were so "mixed up, that the injury of one would be the depression of the other. In this view of the case, he would repeal this tax, in the hope of being able effectually to resist the improvidence of ministers. It was said, that the landholder had reason to complain of the Poor laws and of Tithes,
21Mr. Bright
22 admitted, that the interests of the agricultural and commercial classes were the same, and that nothing could be more fatal than to separate them; but he could not believe that the reduction of our finances would be the means of making us more respectable in the eyes of the other powers of Europe. He admitted that the malt tax, as a general measure, pressed hard on the comforts of the poor; but he could not see how this bill was calculated to relieve them. The whole of the tax now proposed to be taken of would not make the difference of one farthing in the price of a pot of beer; but even of that difference the consumers would not get the benefit. The brewers had first to dispose of their large stock on hand; and as very little malt was made after the month of May, this would carry them on to nearly the next sitting of parliament; and then, before they reduced their price, they would wait to see whether the chancellor of the exchequer would propose a renewal of the tax; so that if the present bill were carried, it would be nearly a year before the consumers could derive any benefit from it, however small. The system adopted on the other side seemed to be that of taking a round at every tax, in the hope that with some one they might be able to succeed. There was the motion for the repeal of the tax on malt; for the repeal of that on windows; for a repeal of the wool tax; and, for the repeal of the agricultural horse duty. Now, he contended that the repeal of those taxes would be a great injury to the country. The present tax was proposed to be repealed for the relief of the agriculturists; but the House should recollect that there was a committee sitting up stairs on that
22Colonel Wood
 said, he thought it was a decidedly wise step in the House to have gotten rid of the property tax, because it operated upon too few subjects. This objection did not apply to the malt tax. To render a property tax at all endurable, it ought to exclude from any share of the burden it cast on society, those persons who had merely a life interest in their property. He would not consent to shake the security of the country by making any diminution rashly in the revenue. He could not therefore consent, under the present circumstances, to take off this tax. If establishments of a great extent were necessary for the public security, suitable means ought to be given to his majesty's government to support the charges. He should be particularly averse to this repeal, as the reduction of the tax would necessarily affect the sinking fund. From what he had witnessed of the disposition of ministers to reduce our establishments, he had no doubt, that suitable reductions from time to time would be acceded to. The repeal of the present tax would not, after all, afford relief to the extent of one farthing in the pot of porter.Mr. Frankland Lewis
 corroborated the statements with respect to Scotland, and wished for an equalization of the duties. He objected to this bill, that it did not extend to Scotland.Captain Gordon
 strongly recommended economy, both in our military establishments and in the expense of collecting the revenue. The best preparation for war was, to husband our resources in peace. He should certainly vote for the repeal of the tax.Mr. Smyth
31l.l.30l.2928l.27d.s.d.s.d.s.262524l.l.23 before he made the observations which occurred to him, requested the clerk to read the following entry on the Journals of the 8th June, 1819, of the sixth Resolution of the Committee on Public Income and Expenditure:31l.l.30l.2928l.27d.s.d.s.d.s.262524l.l.23Lord Castlereagh,
 of Norfolk, said, he gave his cordial support to the bill. The system which had been acted upon, and which he had opposed for the last IB years, had brought the country to the state to which he had always expected it would be brought. He almost regretted that he had lived thus long to see the country in its present state. Dire taxation was the cause of the existing distress. But it was said, the public debt must not be reduced. God forbid, that it should be improperly reduced but in time, if something were not done, Hits might become unavoidable. It was said, the House must not break faith with the public creditor. But had that House not already broken its faith? He had been a member of it for 40 years, and had never known it to keep faith in any case. In his opinion, a reform of the system was necessary. The noble lord had said, that the repeal of the malt tax would not benefit the landed interest. In reply to this he would refer the noble lord to the experience of the years 1815 and 1817-In those years barley was only 18s. the quarter. The malt tax was repealed, and the barley rose to a remunerating price, and no complaint was heard on the subject until the chancellor of the exchequer imposed a new malt tax. The price of barley upon this again declined.Mr. Coke,
32 rose amid loud cries of "question." After the reception he had encountered, he felt little disposition to occupy their time; but although he might have some difficulty in justifying to the House a trespass upon its attention, he should have still more in justifying, when he met his constituents, a silent vote upon the subject in debate. The noble lord then went on to answer the arguments employed against the bill. He
32Lord A. Hamilton
And all-involving winds have swept away."Nor cruelly demand what the deep rainsMakes your glass sparkle and your sense rejoice,Which covers yours with luxury profuse,And, oh, be mindful of that sparing board,Whose toil to yours is warmth and graceful pride.Be mindful of those limbs, in russet clad,That sinks you soft in elegance and ease—Be mindful of the rough laborious hand"——Ye masters, then,3433 stated the reluctance he felt to be obliged to intreat the indulgence of the House for a short time; but placed as he was by what had fallen from the noble lord, it was impossible to avoid making a few observations. He was not often ambitious of engaging the attention, or occupying the valuable time of the House, and it would be more congenial to his feelings not to speak on the subject alluded to. Occasions might occur, when to be silent would warrant a conclusion to be drawn which he little wished, and hoped not to deserve. He had no hesitation, however, in declaring, that the hasty mode adopted lately regarding the office he held in the king's family, was not rendered more necessary at the present moment than for a year past—and certainly by no change of conduct on his part. Sufficiently did he announce a considerable time ago, by communications and explanations addressed to a proper quarter, his desire and readiness to retire, from his inability to attend regularly to the duties, and some of them in parliament, to prevent disagreement—owing much to being obliged to watch over the
And all-involving winds have swept away."Nor cruelly demand what the deep rainsMakes your glass sparkle and your sense rejoice,Which covers yours with luxury profuse,And, oh, be mindful of that sparing board,Whose toil to yours is warmth and graceful pride.Be mindful of those limbs, in russet clad,That sinks you soft in elegance and ease—Be mindful of the rough laborious hand"——Ye masters, then,3433The Earl of Fife
habeas corpus wished to offer a few words, in consequence of the allusions which had been made to him. Those allusions referred to an assertion which he had made on a former occasion. All the gentlemen who had alluded to it, had argued as if it was a matter of option with the country whether it would pay the interest of the debt or not. What he had stated was, that in the government of countries there was a moral as well as physical impossibility, which must excuse a breach of faith with the public creditor; and this proposition he would not retract. He had asked if a case might not occur in which it would be a breach of faith to the whole to keep faith with a part, as in the event of invasion by a foreign enemy. Again, he had asked, if the country were reduced by excessive taxation to such a state of commotion that it should be necessary to suspend the habeas corpusLord Folkestone
 replied, that he had received a communication from the chamber of commerce in Dublin, intimating, that it would be more agreeable, if the consideration of the subject were deferred for the present session.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
4 as soon as the Speaker had taken the chair, rose to correct a mis-statement which had appeared in some of the public papers, respecting what had fallen from him during the debate of last night. He was aware, that the error was quite unintentional, for he was satisfied with the general accuracy, impartiality and ability with which the reports of the proceedings of that House were sent forth to the world. "What he was represented to have said of a gentleman, who took an active part in Catholic proceedings in Ireland, was, that he (Mr. O'Connell) was a mushroom orator. Now, he had said no such thing. What he said was this—in allusion to the Catholic aristocracy of Ireland, that as to the antiquity of that gentleman's family pretensions, respectable as they were, when compared with that aristocracy, they were of the mushroom celebrity of a day. He made the allusion, not for the purpose of reflecting on that gentleman's family pretensions, which, he repeated, were respectable, but merely comparatively as to their relation to the aristocracy. He was the more anxious to have the mistake corrected, as nothing could be further from his intentions than to hurt the
4Mr. Ellis, of Dublin,
 brought up the Report of the Committee of privilege, appointed to inquire into the interference of the military at the late election of Carlisle. The report was read as follows:—Mr. Wynn
5 said, that he had never sat in a committee in which more impartiality was manifested, or more, anxiety
5Mr. Wynn
 would venture to say, that, although at most elections political feeling was necessarily excited, yet there never was an election at which it was less observable than at the election for Carlisle. Certainly, nothing had occurred there which could justify the introduction of the military. He did not know in whose hands the regulation and employment of the civil power of Carlisle were placed; but, in his opinion, something ought to be done for the effectual revision of the system.Mr. Bennet
 presented a petition from the merchants and traders of Liverpool, praying for a repeal of the Union duties. He was instructed to support the petition on three grounds: First, on the ground, that the duties were productive of an inconsiderable revenue; Secondly, that much inconvenience was sustained in their collection; and lastly, that by their discontinuance great assistance would be rendered to the Irish manufacturers. He wished to know, from the chancellor of the exchequer whether it was his intention speedily to bring the subject before the House.Mr. Canning
 expressed a wish, if it were resolved that the subject should not be considered in the preset session, that it should be understood by all parties, that it would certainly be taken into consideration in the course of the next.Mr. Canning
 said, he had felt it necessary to bring this subject before the House; but, after the decision of the committee, he was not inclined to press it further.Mr. James
 protested against any further delay. He was convinced that, by a repeal of the duties, the Irish manufacture would be considerably benefited. He hoped the session would not pass without some step bring taken.Sir H. Parnell
l.40 said, he was the unfortunate individual who moved for the committee of 1810. When he had got into that committee, they would agree to nothing that he proposed. He had proposed to the committee to examine to what extent the evil of poaching had gone, and to consider a remedy. This the committee refused, and said they would take for granted there was a great deal of evil from poaching. So that after much discussion the only resolution the committee came to was this—"That it is the opinion of this committee that game
l.40Colonel Wood
 of Wiltshire, thought the game laws required revision. Few persons stole sheep who did not first begin by poaching. If game was put upon the same footing as other property it would be the interest of the occupiers of the land to preserve it; it was now their interest to destroy it. It might be then sold so cheap that it would not be worth the poachers while to sell game.Mr. Bennet,
 jun. thought the effect of making game property, would be, to render country gentlemen odious in the eyes of the nation, by giving them a mercenary sordid character, in converting that which had hitherto been regarded as an exclusive source of amusement into a means of lucre. He did not stand up as the defender of the game laws, but he was convinced it was impossible to put a stop to poaching by any laws that could be devised; and the present laws were so fitted and fashioned to their end by the operation of time, that any attempt at alteration would be more likely to defeat the object than to promote it.Mr. Coke
 spoke against the motion, conceiving its object to be two-fold, namely, to legalize the sale of game, and to prevent poaching. He must protest against the former, as it would serve rather to promote than to prevent poaching.Lord Lowther
 supported the motion, because he thought its principle unobjectionable. At the same time, he should have preferred that his hon. friend had postponed it until after the bringing up of the report of the agricultural committee.Sir W. W. Wynn
l. said, he wished to know the degree of importance which the agricultural committee would attach to the repeal of this tax. Unless they considered its repeal of great importance to the agricultural interests, he thought no benefit arising from it could equal the inconvenience which would result, in a financial point of view, from the subtraction of so large a sum as 500,000l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was satisfied, that the country would consider the repeal of the tax as a great relief. He did not wish to undervalue the opinion of the committee up stairs; he must say that he thought it would be much better for the House to grant this small boon to the agriculturists at the present moment.Sir T. Lethbridge
48 expressed his regret at hearing this question argued with reference to the conflicting interests of different classes of the community. It gave him some surprise to find his hon. friend treating a great national subject in a way which, practically considered, he must pronounce extraordinary and almost absurd. He was now alluding chiefly to what fell from his hon. friend in relation
48Mr. Baring
49 said, he was desirous to keep up the financial credit of the coun-
49Mr. Calcraft
 rose to move for a committee to inquire into the state of the Game Laws. When the House recollected the numbers who were daily committed to prison for offences arising out of these laws they could not but see the importance of the subject. He thought, too, that the laws were in, many respects absurd and inconsistent. In some cases, a son was qualified while the father was not. The noble lord mentioned several other instances to show the anomalous state of the law upon this subject, and concluded by moving for the committee.Lord Cranbourn
 seconded the motion. He was sure that any change would be for the better. A set of laws more absurd or unjust never disgraced any country. With respect to their effects, they tended to demoralize the people. It was his opinion, that game should be put upon the same footing as other property.Sir J. Sebright
39 said, that when he recollected that a bill for altering the game laws had been brought in by the late member for Hertfordshire (lord Dacre), and enforced by all his eloquence and yet had failed, he could not expect much from the present motion. However, the noble lord had said, to use sporting language, "though lord Dacre missed fire, I'll whip on his jacket, and have a shot at the game laws." The game laws had not been fairly treated; for there was no set of laws that might not be open to objection, if their bad effects only were considered. If the game were destroyed, the
39Sir J. Shelly
 said, that nothing could be more fair than that the hon. gentleman should retain the option of reviving his motion if the report of the committee should be delayed beyond this session. His own object certainly was, to perceive what was the degree of importance attached to the tax in question by the committee. All that he had to observe at present was, that he did not see what material relief would be afforded by its repeal, and did not know what substitute could be proposed.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
53l. said, that standing as a neutral person, without any shipping or other commercial interest, he wished to give his public aid to that great principle of free trade, which alone could relieve the country from its present difficulties. The House ought at least to take the first favourable opportunity of putting one branch of trade out of the trammels in which it toiled; and the committee would bear in mind, that this was not a trade which had been established for centuries, it was not like the silk trade, for instance, it had only been established since 1807 or 1809. He wished the committee to bear in mind that they were not legislating for Russia, for Norway, or for Canada—but for England. They were bound to examine in what way they could bring the article of-timber into this country at the cheapest rate. If he could show, as he thought he could, that it could be procured from Russia and Norway, for one half less than from Canada, he should be making out a case which must satisfy the committee. The proposition of the right hon. gentleman went to prohibit the good article which was near at hand in those Northern countries, for the sake of introducing one so bad, that it would otherwise never find its way here. And this was to be done for the sake of saving the pockets of the Canadian lumbermen, or those other lumbermen the ship owners. He contended that what the right hon. gentleman called enabling Russia to compete with Norway, was, in fact, keeping the timber of the latter, which was the very best, farther and farther from our market. Instead of which it ought to be brought here as soon as an opportunity offered, inasmuch as it was not only the best but the cheapest article. Every man of common sense would see, that the proposition of the hon. baronet was that which ought to be adopted by the committee, and not the proposition of the right hon. gentleman. The hon. member then made a statement to prove that the amendment went to save 400,00053l.Mr. Bennet
"Whose flag had brav'd a thousand years "The battle and the breeze." observed, that the opinions which had been expressed on this question were widely different, and the inference he drew from them all was, that the proposition of his right hon. friend was the best that could be adopted. Our colonies he conceived, ought rather to be considered as an integral part of the kingdom, than as an appendage having only a remote interest in common with the mother country. As to the shipping interest he trusted parliament and the country would never be so ungrateful as to forget that to it we owed the glory of that navy
"Whose flag had brav'd a thousand years "The battle and the breeze."Mr. Robinson
5756 remarked, that the general principle of political economy which ought to regulate the conduct of a great country, and which should never be deviated from but in cases of urgent necessity, would lead us to purchase an article wherever it could be had of the best quality and at the cheapest price. Of all
5756Mr. Baring
6362l.d.s.l.ad valorem.616059 said:—I have listened with great attention to the discussion before the committee, and more particularly to the doctrines of our new school of political economists; but must confess that they have produced very little conviction on my mind. Hitherto ships, colonies, and commerce have been considered as inseparably connected with each other; but, according to the new system, we are to sacrifice our ships and colonies, in order that our commerce may go on the better without them. Whenever these philosophers v/ill illustrate their theory by experimental proof; if, for example, they will take off two legs from a three-legged stool, and make it stand on the remaining one leg more firmly than it before did on all the three, then, but not till then, will I become one of their disciples. Our trade with our own colonies and in our own
6362l.d.s.l.ad valorem.616059Mr. Marryat
 supported the amendment; and after a brief reply, from Mr. Wallace, the committee divided four times; viz.Mr. F. Lewis
s. also thought the proposition of the right hon. gentleman would seriously affect the ship-owner, but he supported it because it was less injurious than the amendment. He looked at the interests of the ship-owners as bound up with the general interests of the country, and he did not wish to give them advantages unconnected with the general interest. He apprehended that the necessary consequence of the proposition would be, the transfer of the American trade to Norway which must seriously hurt the shipowners of this country. The American timber trade was carried on by British shipping, but three-fourths of the Norway timber trade was carried on by foreign ships, and the other quarter by British. Even if all British ships were employed in the Norway trade, it would be carried on by one-third of the number of ships employed in the American. If this country wished to retain her colonies, their produce ought to be protected. He did not think the only object to be to procure articles at the cheapest rate possible, because if that were the object the corn laws ought to be repealed, as corn could be purchased at Dantzic at 26s.Mr. Sykes
58l.l. said, he was anxious to deliver his opinion on the present proposition, as it involved a principle of infinitely greater importance than the question immediately under consideration. They had been told that they ought to go to the best and cheapest market, and also that the timber of Norway and Russia was better and cheaper than that of America; and yet they were recommended as a practical measure, to take the worst timber at the dearest rate! His hon. friend (Mr. Bennet), in a speech full of the soundest argument, and as yet totally unanswered by the gentlemen opposite, had shown, in the most convincing manner, that by buying our timber from the northern powers of Europe, we should save 400,00058l.l.Mr. Ricardo
 said, he should certainly give his support to the motion. He should do so on the same principle on which he had voted for repealing the last duty on malt, not because it was in itself a bad tax, or pressed with peculiar hardship on the landed interest, but with a view of compelling the observance of strict economy in the administration of government. It was his belief that the whole amount of the malt tax might be saved by measures of economy; and as he looked upon the sinking fund to be utterly useless—to be at this moment unproductive of one single good effect—he was quite disposed to abrogate every tax so long as any portion of that fund remained in existence. The hon. mover had stated, that foreign monarchs were embarking in the corn trade, that they were becoming merchants, and that the king of Sweden was importing oats into this country. Now if this were the fact, he for one should rather rejoice at it, because he should expect to make much better bargains with kings and princes than with their subjects. The hon. gentleman, however, need not be under any alarm; for if, as he represented, these trading potentates would not take back our hardware and pottery in exchange, and would receive nothing but bullion, there was a sufficient security for our continuing to grow our own corn.Mr. Ricardo
 expressed his concurrence with the motion, but wished it to be postponed until after the agricultural committee had made its report.Mr. Davenport
42 convinced as he was, that great moral evil resulted from the present system, was inclined to support a measure which might tend to correct it. Much stress had been laid upon the argument that the present game laws presented
42Mr. Harbord,
 was glad his bill had been so effectual. If that bill destroyed poaching, it would destroy the nest from which great part of the evil of the country originated. He objected to a committee which would take up the time of the House without adding any thing to its information. As the subject was not new, the noble lord might at once move for leave to bring in a bill. As to the game laws themselves, no one could deny, that a great number of persons were at present in prison on account of them, and nothing would be more easy than to put an end to this, by abolishing those laws. But this might be said of any other law. They all lamented the number of punishments for forgery. Nothing was more easy than to put an end to the laws against it. But what then became of the property of the country? So they might abolish the game laws, but what then became of the game of the country? The general permission to shoot would only make the country people ten times more vicious and indolent: in six months the game would be destroyed, and the better classes of people would be left without their amusement, which attached them to the country.Mr. G. Bankes
l. hoped the hon. member would not press his motion, but bring it forward again after the committee should have made their report. He was convinced if ministers would put their shoulders to the wheel, that they would be able to find means of raising 500,000l.Mr. Gipps
 gave notice, that he should resist the introduction of any substitute in the event of the tax being repealed.Mr. Bright
 of Wilts, approved of the motion, and saw no necessity for its postponement.Mr. Benett,
 said, that if the right hon. gentleman opposite would pledge himself to meet the question at a future period, he would withdraw his motion.Mr. Curwen
 said, that under the circumstances, he did not deem it advisable to press his motion; but, in withdrawing it, he wished to reserve to himself the liberty of again bringing it forward, if there should be no prospect of the committee making an early report.Mr. Curwen
4645s.l.44d.s.431.d.s.s.,s. rose to bring forward his promised motion for the repeal of the tax upon Horses employed in Agriculture. Against this proposition, he felt that the same objections could not apply, which were urged upon the measure of his hon. friend the member for Essex, with regard to the repeal of the malt tax. For the tax to which his motion would refer, operated in a most unequal manner, pressing most severely upon those who had to cultivate the waste land, while it was, to a certain extent, oppressive upon all farmers, especially of the smaller class. There was, indeed, scarcely a farmer who bad not reason to complain of the operation of this tax; for what farmer could conscientiously swear that he never used any of his agricultural horses for any other purpose than farming? and if he did not so swear, the horse otherwise used was charged as a saddle-horse. There was this material difference between the malt tax, and that to which he referred, that while it was maintained, that the repeal of the former would confer no benefit on the agriculturist or the consumer, no such argument could be used in the present case, as the repeal of the agricultural horse tax would be an immediate boon to the farmers. The present tax too, was in amount much less than that of the malt tax; and therefore it could be the more easily dispensed with. This tax was, indeed, so exceptionable, that he was surprised at its original enactment. But the unequal operation of it was peculiarly to be deprecated. For instance, if a farmer had four horses, three were charged at 174645s.l.44d.s.431.d.s.s.,s.Mr. Curwen
41 thought that a committee ought not to be appointed, unless the specific defect in the law were clearly pointed out, and the remedy stated. The proposition of the noble lord, he was convinced, would not produce the slightest improvement in the morals of the country.
41Mr. Lockhart
 neither wished to spoil the amusements of the country gentleman, nor to remove the inducement which he now had to reside on his estate; but he believed the present laws to be the source of much crime, and should therefore vote for their revision.Mr. Warre
51 noticed at some length the objections which had been made to the proposition which it had been his duty to submit to the House. These were most contradictory in their nature. By some he was accused of favouring the trade to the North of Europe too much, while others accused him of undue partiality for that to North America. From these conflicting opinions, he was led to conclude that the proposition which had been brought forward was, upon the whole, pretty fair to all parties concerned. With the view he took of the subject, he could offer no new concessions, and he did not feel disposed to accede to the proposition which the noble lord (Althorp) had submitted to the House on a former night. He was unwilling to afford any undue advantages to the trade of Norway. What had been said with respect to the debt owing by Norway to this country, to make up which he supposed all the bad debts to have been scraped together, did not materially bear on the question. If such debts were owing, it was not to be supposed that it could be paid in wood; it must be settled through the medium of a negotiation between the two governments. Norway had had a full share of our timber trade. This he apprehended, could not be denied, when it was seen that she had had a third of our whole trade to the North of Europe. He was disposed to show some favour to Norway in the arrangements to be made, but he was not disposed to afford her such advantages as would lead to the total exclusion of the trade of Russia and Prussia. The right hon. member then made comparative statements between his proposition and that of the noble lord, thereby shewing that the latter gave considerable advantage to Norway over Russia. The system which had been recommended by an hon. baronet was nothing more nor less than a system for excluding the timber of our colonies from this country altogether. The shipping interests, and the interests of the colonies, had a claim, upon their protection, and it would be the height of injustice if the committee
51Mr. Wallace
 rose to correct a misapprehension under which the hon. member for Shrewsbury laboured. He could assure the hon. gentleman, that though he had an interest in the subject, yet he was as independent as any member in the House. He contended, that the view taken of the subject by the two hon. baronets opposite, was the true view of the subject. He could not agree with the member for Portarlington, that it was a matter of indifference whether the return for foreign timber was made in goods or specie. He had lived long enough to know that a bird in the hand was worth two in the bush, and he should feel disposed to trade with a country which would take his own goods in exchange, rather than demand it in specie.Mr. T. Wilson
 thought, that at a time when the country gentlemen were labouring under so many privations, it was too much to propose to take from them the only solace they had left. With regard to the main question of the game laws, he was convinced that it would be a bad plan to separate the game from the poperty of the country. In this point he was supported by the late Mr. Fox, who, after having maturely examined the subject, had come to the same conclusion.Sir C. Burrell
 after declaring his concurrence with the principle of the motion, expressed a wish, that it had been postponed until the report of the agricultural committee were brought up. The unequal pressure of the existing tax could not be denied. For instance, where land required lime, which was particularly the case with lands of inferior quality, additional horses must be employed to carry it; for oxen, although they answered the purpose of agriculture in the field, could not carry great weights for any distance upon the roads. Under all the circumstances, he trusted his hon. friend would consent to postpone his motion.Sir C. Burrell,
 opposed the motion. To legalize the sale of game would, he observed, be, in effect, to enable persons to buy licenses for the disposal of stolen purchases.Mr. Douglas
 said, he thought it would have been better if the hon. baronet, had reserved his motion till the whole question had been discussed. The system now proposed was only experimental, and it might be corrected by future regulations if found inconvenient: he approved of it generally, though, with respect to deals, he thought too great an advantage had been given to the Americans.Mr. Keith Douglas
s.l.52l.l. said, that nothing which had fallen from the right hon. gentleman went to change the opinion which he had previously entertained upon this question. He considered his proposition to impose a direct tax upon the country, and that partly for the purpose of giving Russia an opportunity of importing deals, if his principle was good in this respect, he would perhaps see the propriety of extending it further in encouraging a free foreign trade. If he took off the duties upon foreign deals, why not also take off the duties upon linen? He knew no reason why the duties upon hemp should be kept up at its present high rate. All these duties would be reduced with the most beneficial results to trade in general. The right hon. gentleman supported his proposition upon the ground of expediency, and upon the great protection which he considered to be due to the shipping and colonies. But with regard to this doctrine of expediency, it was not supported by any of the facts of the case. There had been no case made out to call for the imposition of such duties for the sake of conferring benefit upon the colonies. Nothing had been said to justify the sacrifice which the country must make for the sake of affording protection to these particular interests. The bounty given would create a tax not amounting to less than 3 or 400,000s.l.52l.l.Sir H. Parnell
 said, that though he was not a killer of game, he was an eater of that nice article, but since the bill of an hon. member (Mr. G. Bankes) had passed, he had never been able to get a second course. He hoped, whatever bill the noble lord brought in, there would be a clause in it to provide, that when an humble individual like himself was about to give a dinner, and said to his wife, "My dear, let us have some game" he might not be met with the unpleasant difficulty where shall we get it?"Sir Joseph Yorke
l.54 said, that he differed considerably from his hon. friend the member for Shrewsbury. He had indulged in some remarks upon the evidence given before the committee by those interested in the Canada trade. Now it was impossible not to observe that the same disposition existed in the evidence on all sides, to give the best colouring for the advantage of the different parties. One gentleman being asked if the Norwegian merchants did not owe a considerable debt to this country, replied "yes, and they would be glad to pay it in timber." He was not one who thought that they were bound to look to the interest of the consumer alone. They were bound also to take into consideration how the seller and the importer would be affected by the measures they were about to adopt. The Canada timber was less subject to dry rot than that of any other country. A Mr. Hay had given it in evidence, that he put down gate-posts in 1792 made of Canada timber, and upon taking them up in 1814', found them entirely free from dry-rot, and in a serviceable state for the common purposes of timber. This was undoubtedly an advantage well worthy of attention. There were 1,200 sail of shipping yearly employed in the American timber trade, and
l.54Sir M. W. Ridley
55 conceived the American, timber trade not so beneficial to the inhabitants of Canada as to the ship-owners, because timber was cut down in that country for the purpose of clearing the land. He could not agree with the amendment, because he thought as long as the colonial system was kept up, so long ought protection to be afforded, in such a degree as not to do more hurt than service to the subjects of this country. The right hon. gentleman had said, that Norway being put upon the same footing with Russia might give cause of complaint to the latter; but he could see no reason for complaint on the part of Russia, unless a greater duty were imposed upon her produce than upon that of Norway. The right hon. gentleman had said, that what he (lord A.) had proposed on a former night would benefit Russia; because if the article could not be procured from Norway, it must come from Russia; but the right hon. gentleman forgot that Prussia and Sweden might enter into
55Lord Althorp
 feared, that the distress of the agricultural classes was not duly appreciated. It seemed to him that the best course would be, to allow his hon. friend to bring in his bill, and then to suspend its stages till they were in possession of further information.Lord Milton
 remarked upon the anomaly of calling upon the House to pass an opinion upon a subject of which they could know nothing. If the motion were entertained, the House would be occupied in hearing contradictory statements which could lead to no satisfactory conclusion.Mr. Wynn
 recommended that the matter should be allowed to drop.Mr. Wynn
sine die.68 said, that as he was one of the parties, he could not, if the inquiry were to be proceeded upon at all, consent to one hour's delay. He was most ready to admit, that great heats and animosities
sine die.68Mr. Bennet
 in rising to move the second reading of the Metropolis Roads bill, went into a history of the modes of defraying the expence of the maintenance of roads, which had prevailed in this and other countries. He approved of the system of supporting the roads by tolls on them, as well as of the management by trusts, but the vice into which this system fell, was the minute sub-division, by which economy in procuring the materials, and the employment of scientific aid was rendered impracticable. He urged the benefits which would arise from the present bill, which would remedy these inconveniences, while it retained the advantages of the toll and trust system.Mr. D. Gilbert,
 hoped the bill would not be disposed of, in the summary manner recommended by the amendment. The magnitude of the sums collected by the several courts made it imperative upon the House to take the business into their own hands.Mr. F. Lewis
70 said, he could not help stating that the trustees considered this measure as a bill of indictment against them. Out of between fifty and sixty trusts, the holders of at least thirty had petitioned against it. He could see no reason whatever for extending the provi-
70Mr. Calcraft
l.l.75***74l. rose to second the motion. Nothing could be more constitutional than the course pursued by his hon. friend. It was not necessary to go back for precedents so far as the reign of queen Elizabeth; for, in the early part of the reign of Charles 1st, before the struggles between that monarch and the parliament, sir T. Wentworth, afterwards lord Strafford, moved a resolution in that House, that supply and grievances should go hand in hand. The individual who adopted this sentiment was a man of the first rank and talent in the country, and not liable to the imputation of being a heated enthusiast. In the parliament, called the Pension Parliament, the attention of the House was called to what was then considered an extraordinary fact, that 2,400,000l.l.75***74l.Mr. Hobhousse
 alluded to the statement made in the House by the earl of Fife, with respect to his removal from office. He contended, that the noble earl stated the ground of his dismissal was, the vote which he gave for the repeal of the malt tax. He understood it to be so; and was sorry the words had not been taken down. He agreed with most parts of the resolution of his hon. friend. It could not be doubted that in the present session, the petitions of the people had been totally disregarded. It was equally true that nothing like economy had been attended to in the estimates. It could not be denied either, that establishments were kept up much larger than circumstances could justify. He likewise agreed, that the influence of the Crown in that House was too mighty and too powerful, to allow any real effect to the representation of the people. But he could not agree with that part of the proposition which went in a sweeping way to deprecate the representation of the executive offices of government in that House. He was of opinion that those offices ought to be represented there, and he did not think the public officers too highly paid. However, although he could not agree with that part of the proposition, he could not withhold his assent to the proposition in general.Mr. Calcraft
7776 said, he did not consider that he should perform his duty, if he suffered himself to be led into a debate by the motion of the hon. member which seemed to bring back almost all the subjects which had already occupied the attention of the House this session. This species of opposition seemed to be a duty imposed upon that hon. member, and it
7776Lord Castlereagh
 said, lie had not complained of the removal of lord Fife, but of the cause assigned for the noble earl's having been removed.Mr. Calcraft
 having moved the order of the day, for going into a Committee of Supply,The Chancellor of the Exchequer
80 contended, that the mode adopted by his hon. friend was consistent with the sound constitutional practice of our ancestors, who spoke of grievances before they consented to any vote of supply. Could any man deny that it was the corrupt influence of the Crown which contributed to the majorities in that House? The reason was, that so many in that House held offices under the Crown. He did not allude to the way in which the members of that House were returned; that was another question; but to the way in which they were paid. That it was which occasioned the great grievances
80Mr. Bennet
84 observed, that the strictest attention had been paid by government to the reports of the finance committee. Reductions to a considerable extent had been made in every branch of the public expenditure, and further and more important reductions were in contemplation. The right hon. gentleman pointed out the great hardship which would arise to individuals, as well as the injury which the public service would sustain, from an ill digested and sweeping reduction. He could assure the House, that his majesty's government were most anxious to carry the recommendation of the committee into effect, as far as was consistent with the public interests. The House must at the same time see, that the clerks employed in the higher offices of government, being men of talent and education, were entitled to a more liberal allowance than common clerks. Much evil would arise if persons of a different description were employed in those confidential offices. An unfaithful or negligent clerk might, either from carelessness or from mal-practices, cause
84The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 defended the character of lord Tyrawly. The noble lord had fully cleared himself from the charge which had been made against him.Mr. D. Browne
l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.,l.l.,l.l., observed, that during the war, when the duties of this office were ten times greater than at present, the expense was only one half of what it now cost the country. In 1806 the expense of the War office was only 25,000l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.,l.l.,l.l.,Colonel Davies
l.l.,l.,86l.,l.l. would be content to take for the present year the War-office estimate of 1806; the charge of 1806 being, not 37,355l.l.,l.,86l.,l.l.Lord Palmerston
87l.l.l. insisted, that the noble lord had increased at every point the expense of his department, and was prepared to prove, that if 20,00087l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 complained of the amount of the superannuation list, and also of the expenses of the pay master's establishment. He complained of the number of offices connected with the military accounts, which were, he thought, by far too expensive. He particularly referred to the establishment of commissioners of military accounts in Ireland. In the whole military system there seemed a determination to resist all recommendations which had economy for their object. Why were not the allowances consolidated according to the recommendation in the 4th report of the commissioners? If done, it would not only simplify the process of keeping the accounts, but also considerably diminish the expenses.Sir H. Parnell
 said, that the Irish board of commissioners were appointed by act of parliament. He thought a consolidation of the accounts alluded to would be very inexpedient.Lord Palmerston
l.l.l., remarked upon the increase of the compensations latterly. These compensations in 1807, were only 6,771l.l.l.,Mr. Bennet
 said, that no part of the money passed through his hands. There was a part of his office which merely examined the accounts of these corps, and the warrants were issued from his office for their payments on the paymaster-general.Lord Palmerston
l. said, that at least one half of the amount of the charge for agency, 30,000l.Mr. Maberly
 said, that if the House should deprive the army of their agents, it would be a deprivation of a, great part of their comforts.Lord Palmerston
l., expressed his determination to vote for a saving of 5,000l.,Mr. Wilson
 said, that the present vote had nothing to do with the agency department.Lord Palmerston
l.l.l.l.,l.l.,l.l.l.l.l. was of opinion that the committee were bound to go more into detail. He saw by the estimates that the deputy secretary of war had a salary of 2,500l.l.l.l.,l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Creevey
 seconded the motion. Though he might have wished the instruction to the committee to have been put in a more condensed shape, his hon. friend had perhaps done right in not condensing it, considering the very high quarter from which the recommendation to economy and reduction came.Lord A. Hamilton
 said, that what he understood with respect to the statement made by lord Fife was, not that the giving of his vote against the Malt-tax was the ground of that dismissal, but merely that his impression was so; he therefore could not agree to a resolution, one part of which he conceived not to be consistent with the fact. Without meaning any disrespect to lord Fife's successor, he should like to ask what degree of credit and character would attach to that successor's votes in that House? Would it not be considered by the country, that he held his office by the tenure of supporting all the measures which his majesty's government might choose to recommend? The noble lord urged the House to have recourse, in the present embarrassed state of the country, to every possible reduction in the public expenditure, and more especially in the military part of it. On this subject, the country was extremely indebted to the hon. member for Aberdeen, who, notwithstanding the taunts of the noble lord opposite, had proved himself to be a most industrious, diligent, and valuable member.Lord A. Hamilton
l.l. expresed a hope that some measure would be introduced to amend the Superannuation bill. The provisions of that bill were an enormous charge to the country. Every one must be struck with the enormous disproportion between the allowance of 2,000l.l.Mr. Ellice
 was of opinion that after the committee had sat two years, and had at length brought forward a mature plan, it would be extremely ungracious to shut the door upon it at once. Although he did not approve of it, yet he should vote for the second reading, with a view of subsequently moving for its being referred to a committee up stairs.Mr. Sumner
 said, he did not use the term "criminatory" in his notice, which was merely intended to show that the orders of the House had been contravened by members in the committee. He thought the subject was of great importance, and ought to be thoroughly investigated. He was either prepared to proceed with his motion as chairman of the committee, or with his defence in reply to the hon. member opposite.Mr. Sumner
 could not consent to flinch from the exposition of the whole transaction, after the language used by hon. gentlemen opposite.Mr. Sumner
 said, that in the committee that day a proceeding had been resorted to, which was one of the most extraordinary, and, in its consequences, the most important that could occur, so far as it affected the course of proceeding before a committee up stairs. To the present motion he had not the slightest objection, but in an hour he would call the attention of the House to the other part of the proceedings which had occurred in the committee.Mr. Sumner
7978 said, he was never more surprised than when he heard the pre-
7978Mr. Tierney
 regarded the bill as one of the most extraordinary measures that had ever come before the House. He was of opinion that the hon. gentleman who brought it forward had been imposed upon by false information with respect to the trusts of the several roads.Mr. Curwen
 declared his readiness to withdraw or delay his motion.Mr. Hume
66 said, that having attended the committee, of which the hon. member who spoke last was chairman, he felt it necessary shortly to detail the circumstances which took place there. The committee was very fully attended, there being 50 members present; a question was put whether the report of a former committee should be read for the information of the members. The hon. chairman, without waiting for an opinion on either side, opposed the motion; the question being put, the committee proceeded to a division, and a majority was declared to be against the motion. A motion was then made for an adjournment, in order that time might be afforded to ascertain the sense of the House; and on the question being put, three hon. members who stood at the door having made their appearance, the chairman insisted that they should not be allowed to vote. One of the hon. members said, that they had a right to vote, because the question was improperly and irregularly put before strangers had withdrawn, and therefore the chairman had no right to profit by his own irregularity; they therefore desired that the question should be put again. This, the hon. chairman would not listen to; he insisted that he
66Mr. Hume
8382l.l.l. expressed his regret at the division that had taken place among the gentlemen near him, on the late question. He regretted to see hon. gentlemen, who agreed on a main fact, differ on the words in which that fact was described. It was difficult to couch a motion in terms palatable to two hundred hon. gentlemen: many of whom were, perhaps, anxious to find out a justification for not voting for it. Notwithstanding all that had passed, however, he was about to submit to the House a motion from which he challenged any hon. member to withhold his consent, who regarded his own character, and the interest of the country. Adverting to the civil department of the array, he intreated the House to look at the increase that had taken place in that department. In 1792, the expense of the civil department of the army was 44,9008382l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 withdrew his amendment, and the sixth report of the commissioners of naval inquiry, presented to the House on the 2nd of May 1804, was referred to the committee.Mr. Hume
 said, that in the resolution he had merely stated the fact, that lord Fife had declared in his place, that he was dismissed from his office for the vote he had given.Mr. Creevey
7372l.l.71 rose to oppose the motion. The course which he was about to take might not, be said, be very agreeable to the right hon. gentleman opposite or to the House, but he felt it necessary, in the discharge of his public duty, to oppose the motion for going into a committee of Supply. Instead of going on, he thought it was the duty of the House to retrace its steps. There had been supplies enough voted; and what good had been hitherto effected? Notwithstanding all the petitions from all parts of the kingdom, complaining of the greatest distresses, and praying for the strictest economical reform, the House had still gone on voting away millions of money, and all the labours of his hon. friend the member for Aberdeen (Mr. Hume) had not produced the diminution of one single farthing in the public expenditure. Under these circumstances, nothing could induce him, as far as his vote or influence in that House went, to go again into a committee of supply. The members of that House had been called the trustees of the people, but they differed from all other trustees, for they themselves lived upon the profits of the estate. When the affairs of a private gentleman were deranged,
7372l.l.71Mr. Creevey
 agreed in the recommendation.Mr. Denison
 seconded the amendment, deprecating any attempt to cast a reflection upon those at present invested with the several trusts in the neighbourhood of the metropolis, by whom the roads were kept in the best possible state.Mr. Denison
 suggested, that instead of the present long resolution, it would be better to refer the whole report to the consideration of the committee. Having been a member of the committee which made that report, he cordially concurred in the recommendation which it contained, and thought it the duty of the Treasury to carry it into effect as speedily as possible. He also agreed with those who thought that the 50th of the late king, which regulated the amount of allowances for compensation and superannuation, required some alteration in the present situation of the country.Mr. Huskisson
69 was of opinion, that no party would compromise his feelings by a delay that should conduce to mutual conciliation. With reference to the forms to be observed in committees, they ought to correspond in most instances with the forms of the House itself. No member was entitled to vote in either who had not heard the question put, the question was generally put whilst strangers were withdrawing; but it did not follow that because a member came in whilst strangers were withdrawing, he was on that account entitled to vote, for he might not have heard the question. As to the receiving the numbers of the division, there could be no question but that they must be received when the tellers agreed upon them. Suppose an error to be made by the clerk in setting down the numbers; suppose that he transferred the numbers from one side to another; it must appear quite obvious in that case, that the reference must be immediately made to the tellers, and the moment they had decided, the error must be rectified by the clerk. The clerk was not the teller of the committee. He hoped the House would not be displeased at the statement he had made on this subject. He did not know but that he had gone farther than he ought to have done; but he had proceeded from a conviction on his own mind, and he believed on the mind of the House generally, that the most perfect confidence was, in the outset, placed in the judgment of those to whom the proceedings of committees were intrusted; that in the second place, if they had misjudged, the House would lend its assistance to rectify the error, without casting an insinuation on any party; and, thirdly, that if any of the points to which he had adverted had operated, either in part or entirely, to produce this disappointment in the committee, the House would perceive, if they concurred with him in any of those points, the necessity of having a
69The Speaker
 pointed out the inconvenient shape of the motion. If the question for the consideration of the House were some abstract point as to the duties of chairman of a committee, under any supposed circumstances, there would be no difficulty in the House entertaining it. But when the question was a charge against an individual for his personal conduct in the discharge of the duties of his situation generally, he did not see how the House could make their way clearly through it. At all events, if a proposition of that nature were to be entertained, it would be necessary to have the Minutes of the committee in question.The Speaker
 spoke against the measure, which he conceived quite unnecessary, from the improved state of the roads m the vicinity of the metropolis. He therefore moved, that the bill should be read a second time on that day six months.Sir E. Knatchbull
 thought the bill was rendered necessary, both by an excess of expenditure, and a total want of science evinced in the execution of the present trusts. The roads might be kept in excellent condition for one half of the tolls now collected.Sir H. Parnell
 animadverted upon the conduct of the chairman of the committee, who ought, he thought, to have furnished rather than withheld any information which might be deemed necessary for the understanding of the committee. For the chairman, without any instructions from the committee, to have given notice of a motion of a criminatory nature against any of its members, did certainly appear to him not a little extraordinary. To say the least of it, it was very unusual. It was, in point of discretion, a very ambiguous act, and seemed to show, on the part of the chairman, a remarkable, deviation from prudence. It appeared to have led to great intemperance and irregularity; and though the chairman might have been happily exempt from that impatience and irritability of temper which so unfortunately prevailed in the committee [a laugh], yet still it was imprudent of him, who should have stood impartially between all parties, to have, in the heat of the confusion, given notice of a criminatory proceeding against any of the members of the committee. There was one thing quite clear—that in the present temper of members at all sides, this business could not be investigated as calmly as it ought: he should therefore suggest to the hon. member to withdraw his notice of motion, and let the other party, whose conduct was purely defensive, do the same. The sooner the whole matter were dropped the better.Sir J. Mackintosh
 said, that the circumstance alluded to respecting lord Tyrawly occurred while he (Mr. Pole) was in office in Ireland. It was found, that not that noble lord, but some persons under him were unwilling to send in their accounts. He was, however, happy to state, that lord Tyrawly had, since that period, made up his accounts much to his honour, and that there was a balance in his favour.Mr. W. Pole
65 addressed the Chair on the subject of some most disorderly and irregular conduct which had taken place that morning in a committee up stairs appointed by the House. The House would remember the circumstances under which the present committee on the Newington select Vestry Bill was appointed. It had been the opinion of the last committee on that bill, that the preamble of the bill was not true, in consequence of some of the standing orders of that House not having been complied with. Upon receiving this report, the House was induced to appoint a special committee, to examine whether the standing orders alluded to had been infringed or not. That special committee having reported that the said orders had been sufficiently complied with, the House again appointed a committee on the bill, with power to send for persons, papers, and records. This was the history of the transaction up to that day, when on the assembling of the committee, his hon. friend, the member for the Borough, thought fit to make a proposition to send for the report of the special committee, which motion was carried by a decided majority; but. notwithstanding that, the chairman (Mr. H. Sumner) was the means of preventing the decision of the committee from being carried into effect. Under these circumstances, he (sir R. Wilson) moved an adjournment, in order that they might have the benefit of the Speaker's advice; for their exclusion from sending for the report by which they were authorised to sit, appeared to him to be a gross violation of justice, and of the orders of the House. That question was carried in the negative, and thus they saw themselves deprived of the means of ascertaining the extent of the powers with which they were invested. He
65Sir R. Wilson
 meant to cast no imputation upon the character of lord Tyrawly: he had only stated a fact which appeared from the report of the committee.Sir J. Newport
 adverting to the office of barrack-master-general for Ireland, observed, that it appeared from a report of the committee of 1810 or 1811, that there was a considerable deficiency in the accounts of lord Tyrawly.Sir J. Newport,
 objected to the clause empowering his majesty's ministers to grant allowances to the discharged servants of the company, contending that they were engaged for public purposes, and had no vested or other right that could entitle them to compensation.Mr. Bennet
 thought, that, as the company's charter had been taken away, the least that could be done was, to afford some provision for its servants, he did not disapprove, however, of the check proposed to be instituted.Mr. Gordon
 then moved as an amendment, the introduction of the following words—"that no such allowance be finally or conclusively granted, until submitted to the consideration of parliament;" which was agreed to.Mr. Bennet
97s.s.96sd.sd.,s.1d.s.d.,s195l94931l.l.l.1.l.l.92 rose to offer an amendment. His original intention, he said, was to move, that it be an instruction to this committee to re-consider the former act of 1819, in order to see whether some provision could not be made to lessen the existing evils under which the public interests laboured. But that mode of moving by way of an instruction, he after I wards thought to be a very inefficient one in the first place; and secondly, such an instruction might seem to imply an opinion on the part of the House as to this j subject, before it was examined; therefore he had come to the conclusion, that the most proper mode of all would be, to move for the appointment of a select committee to reconsider the whole subject. The more he considered this question, the more he felt it to be one not only of the utmost importance, but as "the" one in which were involved all the distresses experienced by the country and their remedy. Not only was he anxious to record on the Journals of the House, his sense of the necessity of adopting a measure such as that he should propose; but, if he found any encouragement, he should certainly divide the House upon it. They all felt, no doubt, that the country did at present stand in a very extraordinary situation. After the termination of
97s.s.96sd.sd.,s.1d.s.d.,s195l94931l.l.l.1.l.l.92Mr. Baring
130129128127l.l.126125There are however obvious circumstances connected with the condition of the labouring classes, universally observed and known, and which are sufficient to convince us that during the late war their condition was highly prosperous. We know that their numbers did never at any period so rapidly increase z we know also that the diet of the lower classes became better, more wholesome and nutritious. Bread made from the inferior species of grain, oats, barley and rye, became every year more disused, and was at length only to be seen in some few, and those very poor and remote districts.d.and 8d.124d.d.s.d.s.d.s.The annals of the poor are at all times short and obscure; what their real existing condition at any time and place is, is never generally and seldom accurately known. It is not easy to know what even the money wages of labour are at any particular time; and there is nothing more difficult, nor more unsatisfactory than to determine what the wages of labour, and the condition of the poor have been at remote and distant periods. We have only a few scattered facts to guide us, and these, unaccompanied with particular circumstances connected with them, are frequently more calculated to deceive than inform us. The wages of labour differ more than is apt to be considered at the same time in places a little distant. Adam Smith observes, that the wages of labour in 1775, were 1d.d.s.d.s.d.s.s..s.l.quarter, and its average price for the twenty years before the termination of the war was not either 7s..s.l.123s.l.It would be idle to trace this miserable perversion of fact and reason further, except that the next statement refers to the effect on the condition of the labourer, of the rise of prices in our own times. A contrast is drawn between the rate of wages and the price of provisions now and at the commencement of the past century. "A comparison," it is stated, "of the price of provisions with the price of labour in the first twenty years of the eighteenth century, and the last twenty years before the termination of the war, would exhibit nearly the same melancholy reverse of fortune to the labourer as we found in comparing the reign of Henry the 7th with that of Elizabeth. The price of provisions advanced about fourfold, whilst that of labour was not even doubled. Generally speaking the first might. be said to have become as seven to two, the second hardly as three to two" [Second Letter to Mr. Peel, p. 83.] And then he asks, "can we wonder therefore at a scene of helpless parents, starving children, &c. &c. all of which is imaginary as applied to the period of the war and of high prices." There are in this statement two facts given, with an apparent attention to accuracy; and they are both of them false; the price of provisions did not advance fourfold nor as seven to two; and it is not true that the wages of labour advanced hardly as three to two. The average price of corn for the twenty years referred to, beginning with 1701, was 2s.l.prosperity and wealth. The picture of a worsened condition of the labourer, at a period when it suited the author's purpose so to describe it, is completed by a similar use of facts and history. Harrison, in his description of England, reckons the annual executions at the end of the reign of Elizabeth, at 300 or 400; and this is at once made use of to shew that the depreciation of money during that reign had involved the people in misery, and driven them to the commission of multiplied disorders and crimes. [Second Letter to Mr. Peel, p. 51.] Now this same Harrison states, that in the reign of Henry the 8tb, which is before any fail of money and rise of prices had taken place, the number of executions were nearly 2,000 annually; and Mr. Hume, who quotes both passages, almost in the same line, says, that it is asserted in an act of parliament of Henry the 8th, that the number of prisoners in the kingdom, for debts and crimes, were above 60,000; but this part of Harrison's statement Dr. Copplestone leaves behind, because it would have destroyed his argument altogether, and takes just as much as he can make to suit his purpose.122s.s.l.d.s.d.s.d.s.twenty years beginning with 1501 and ending with 1520, at 5s.s.l.d.s.d.s.d.s.121Now, in the first place, sir F. Eden's tables do not give the average price of wheat for thed.s.ds.s.d.s.d.s.them subservient to the purposes of his preposterous argument. He has taken a review of the stale of the country in the time of Elizabeth. That was a period in which an operation took place, similar to that which followed the Restriction bill. A great increase of money flowed into circulation in consequence of the discovery of America, and was accompanied with a striking and unexampled increase of national wealth and prosperity. This Dr. Copplestone admits; but he says that he finds it was accompanied with a great deterioration in the condition of the labouring classes. That is the point in question. To prove it, he gives us a table, in which he sets down the price of provisions, and the wages of labour, at different periods, commencing with the year 1459, and ending with 1601. The conclusion he professes to draw from this table is, that in the earlier part of that period, before the rise of prices took place, the wages of the labourer would purchase a greater quantity of provisions than in the latter part of it, after that rise of prices. The first circumstance which strikes us in this table is this, that the price of wheat first given in the year When it commences, viz. 1459, is set down at 3d.s.ds.s.d.s.d.s.120***119118117The value of money since this period has risen 20 or 30 per cent, and not 3 per cent. The cause is to be seen in the reduction of the country bank circulation* There is less money in existence. In May 1819, the Bank of England had in a great degree effected its necessary reduction; but the reduction of country bank paper necessarily following the Bank of England reduction, was an operation that had only recently commenced, and was then going on with great rapidity.By the side of this prediction as to prices, and the amount of the country bank circulation, may be set one by Mr. Ricardo, which is found in a reported speech of his, made about the same time, that is in May 1819. He says, "This question (the bank cash payment question) is one of immense importance in principle; but in the manner of bringing it about, is trivial, and not deserving half an hour's consideration of the House. The difficulty is only that of raising the currency 3 per cent in value. A most fearful and destructive depreciation had at one time taken place, but from that we had recovered, and he was happy to reflect that we had so far retraced our steps. We had nearly got home, and he hoped his right hon. friend would lend him his assistance to enable them to reach it in safety. He would venture to state, that in a very few weeks all alarm would be forgotten, and at the end of the year we should all be surprised that any alarm had ever prevailed at a prospect of a variation of 3 per cent in the value of the circulating medium."11673,800The amount paid for the half year ending Oct. 1818, was
73,800The amount paid for the half year ending Oct. 1818, was27,400For the half year ending 5th October 1820
27,400For the half year ending 5th October 182026,900 For the half year ending 5th April 1820
26,900 For the half year ending 5th April 182027,400 For the half year ending 5th October 1819
27,400 For the half year ending 5th October 1819£.58,400For the half year ending 5th April 1819
£.58,400For the half year ending 5th April 1819Amount paid for Stamps on Country Hankers1 Notes.Amount paid for Stamps on Country Hankers1 Notes.
Amount paid for Stamps on Country Hankers1 Notes.Amount paid for Stamps on Country Hankers1 Notes.
73,800The amount paid for the half year ending Oct. 1818, was
73,800The amount paid for the half year ending Oct. 1818, was27,400For the half year ending 5th October 1820
27,400For the half year ending 5th October 182026,900 For the half year ending 5th April 1820
26,900 For the half year ending 5th April 182027,400 For the half year ending 5th October 1819
27,400 For the half year ending 5th October 1819£.58,400For the half year ending 5th April 1819
£.58,400For the half year ending 5th April 1819Amount paid for Stamps on Country Hankers1 Notes.Amount paid for Stamps on Country Hankers1 Notes.
Amount paid for Stamps on Country Hankers1 Notes.Amount paid for Stamps on Country Hankers1 Notes.against the only true test of their soundness, and their profits depending on the amount of their issues, can it be imagined, that they will ever of their own accord contract those issues?" [Second Letter to Mr. Peel, p. 12.] It might have been expected from a writer who is so intemperate, and loud in his accusations of ignorance, towards those who differ from him on these subjects, that he would have himself shown some degree of knowledge of the principles, at least, if not of the practice of circulation. If Dr. Copplestone believes that the country bankers are restricted or protected from paying their notes by any act of Parliament, as the latter part of this sentence seems to imply, then he is right, and the country bankers, if so protected, would undoubtedly have shot out their circulation, and have filled up any existing void very much to their own profit. But the country bankers have always been liable to pay their notes in notes of the Bank of England; and their circulation has been consequently always reduced by a scarcity of Bank of England notes, and can only be extended in consequence of an extension of the Bank issues. If the country bankers had attempted to proceed according to this plan, it would have terminated in their ruin and they could not have succeeded in keeping one single note more in circulation. In what manner the country bank circulation has in fact, since this time, been increased, to keep up prices, may be judged of from the degree in which prices have kept up, as well as from the following statement of stamps on their notes:115contracted their issues; but to answer the demands of the market in the present state of the currency, other banks will increase theirs: to keep up the present prices, as one draws in, the other will shoot out. Being secure114***113112111110s.ld.s.l.d.s.l.During the nine years of the American war, beginning with 1775 and ending with 1783, the average price of wheat for that nine years was 2s.ld.s.l.d.s.l.101121785 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.
101121785 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.10821784 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.
10821784 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.81221783 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.
81221783 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.10721782 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.
10721782 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.9621764 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.
9621764 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.9021763 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.
9021763 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.01911762 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.
01911762 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.41021714 Peace establishment in July—the average price of Wheat £.
41021714 Peace establishment in July—the average price of Wheat £.101121713 Peace establishment in July—the average price of Wheat £.
101121713 Peace establishment in July—the average price of Wheat £.4621712 last year of war—the average price of Wheat £.
4621712 last year of war—the average price of Wheat £.per Quarter.
per Quarter.
101121785 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.
101121785 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.10821784 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.
10821784 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.81221783 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.
81221783 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.10721782 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.
10721782 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.9621764 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.
9621764 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.9021763 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.
9021763 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.01911762 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.
01911762 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.41021714 Peace establishment in July—the average price of Wheat £.
41021714 Peace establishment in July—the average price of Wheat £.101121713 Peace establishment in July—the average price of Wheat £.
101121713 Peace establishment in July—the average price of Wheat £.4621712 last year of war—the average price of Wheat £.
4621712 last year of war—the average price of Wheat £.per Quarter.
per Quarter.the price of corn at the conclusion of any one of the three great wars in which the country was engaged the course of the last century; on the contrary, there appears a uniform rise; and there would have been no fall in corn at the conclusion of the late war, if that conclusion had not been accompanied by the removal of the restriction act, and an attempt to return to cash payments. The manner in which seven millions of gold was issued by the Bank of England in 1818, in an attempt to re-establish cash payments, was equivalent to giving a bounty of 25 per cent, on the foreign corn imported at that time. The following table shews the manner in which the price of wheat was affected by the establishment of peace at the conclusion of each of the three great wars in the last century:—109***108107d.s.l.milar instances. The depreciation in the value of ships, he says, (1820) "is proceeding more rapidly than ever." It has been said, that the importation of grain in 1817 and 1818, gave employment to ships. It did so; but it must be taken into account likewise, that in those years we exported seven or eight millions of gold, supplied by the Bank, at 3d.s.l.106l.l.l,l.l.l.† The following Statement, shewing what the fall in the price of ships has been since 1818, appears in a speech of Mr. Marryat's, reported in Vol. 1, p. 849 of the New Series of the Parliamentary Debates: "The Sesostris, launched in 1818, 480 tons, cost 12,175l.l.l,l.l.l.s.s.d.d.s.l.l.sl.l.*s.s.d.d.s.l.l.sl.l.**105l.104l.samel.103102101100l.9998*** said:130129128127l.l.126125There are however obvious circumstances connected with the condition of the labouring classes, universally observed and known, and which are sufficient to convince us that during the late war their condition was highly prosperous. We know that their numbers did never at any period so rapidly increase z we know also that the diet of the lower classes became better, more wholesome and nutritious. Bread made from the inferior species of grain, oats, barley and rye, became every year more disused, and was at length only to be seen in some few, and those very poor and remote districts.d.and 8d.124d.d.s.d.s.d.s.The annals of the poor are at all times short and obscure; what their real existing condition at any time and place is, is never generally and seldom accurately known. It is not easy to know what even the money wages of labour are at any particular time; and there is nothing more difficult, nor more unsatisfactory than to determine what the wages of labour, and the condition of the poor have been at remote and distant periods. We have only a few scattered facts to guide us, and these, unaccompanied with particular circumstances connected with them, are frequently more calculated to deceive than inform us. The wages of labour differ more than is apt to be considered at the same time in places a little distant. Adam Smith observes, that the wages of labour in 1775, were 1d.d.s.d.s.d.s.s..s.l.quarter, and its average price for the twenty years before the termination of the war was not either 7s..s.l.123s.l.It would be idle to trace this miserable perversion of fact and reason further, except that the next statement refers to the effect on the condition of the labourer, of the rise of prices in our own times. A contrast is drawn between the rate of wages and the price of provisions now and at the commencement of the past century. "A comparison," it is stated, "of the price of provisions with the price of labour in the first twenty years of the eighteenth century, and the last twenty years before the termination of the war, would exhibit nearly the same melancholy reverse of fortune to the labourer as we found in comparing the reign of Henry the 7th with that of Elizabeth. The price of provisions advanced about fourfold, whilst that of labour was not even doubled. Generally speaking the first might. be said to have become as seven to two, the second hardly as three to two" [Second Letter to Mr. Peel, p. 83.] And then he asks, "can we wonder therefore at a scene of helpless parents, starving children, &c. &c. all of which is imaginary as applied to the period of the war and of high prices." There are in this statement two facts given, with an apparent attention to accuracy; and they are both of them false; the price of provisions did not advance fourfold nor as seven to two; and it is not true that the wages of labour advanced hardly as three to two. The average price of corn for the twenty years referred to, beginning with 1701, was 2s.l.prosperity and wealth. The picture of a worsened condition of the labourer, at a period when it suited the author's purpose so to describe it, is completed by a similar use of facts and history. Harrison, in his description of England, reckons the annual executions at the end of the reign of Elizabeth, at 300 or 400; and this is at once made use of to shew that the depreciation of money during that reign had involved the people in misery, and driven them to the commission of multiplied disorders and crimes. [Second Letter to Mr. Peel, p. 51.] Now this same Harrison states, that in the reign of Henry the 8tb, which is before any fail of money and rise of prices had taken place, the number of executions were nearly 2,000 annually; and Mr. Hume, who quotes both passages, almost in the same line, says, that it is asserted in an act of parliament of Henry the 8th, that the number of prisoners in the kingdom, for debts and crimes, were above 60,000; but this part of Harrison's statement Dr. Copplestone leaves behind, because it would have destroyed his argument altogether, and takes just as much as he can make to suit his purpose.122s.s.l.d.s.d.s.d.s.twenty years beginning with 1501 and ending with 1520, at 5s.s.l.d.s.d.s.d.s.121Now, in the first place, sir F. Eden's tables do not give the average price of wheat for thed.s.ds.s.d.s.d.s.them subservient to the purposes of his preposterous argument. He has taken a review of the stale of the country in the time of Elizabeth. That was a period in which an operation took place, similar to that which followed the Restriction bill. A great increase of money flowed into circulation in consequence of the discovery of America, and was accompanied with a striking and unexampled increase of national wealth and prosperity. This Dr. Copplestone admits; but he says that he finds it was accompanied with a great deterioration in the condition of the labouring classes. That is the point in question. To prove it, he gives us a table, in which he sets down the price of provisions, and the wages of labour, at different periods, commencing with the year 1459, and ending with 1601. The conclusion he professes to draw from this table is, that in the earlier part of that period, before the rise of prices took place, the wages of the labourer would purchase a greater quantity of provisions than in the latter part of it, after that rise of prices. The first circumstance which strikes us in this table is this, that the price of wheat first given in the year When it commences, viz. 1459, is set down at 3d.s.ds.s.d.s.d.s.120***119118117The value of money since this period has risen 20 or 30 per cent, and not 3 per cent. The cause is to be seen in the reduction of the country bank circulation* There is less money in existence. In May 1819, the Bank of England had in a great degree effected its necessary reduction; but the reduction of country bank paper necessarily following the Bank of England reduction, was an operation that had only recently commenced, and was then going on with great rapidity.By the side of this prediction as to prices, and the amount of the country bank circulation, may be set one by Mr. Ricardo, which is found in a reported speech of his, made about the same time, that is in May 1819. He says, "This question (the bank cash payment question) is one of immense importance in principle; but in the manner of bringing it about, is trivial, and not deserving half an hour's consideration of the House. The difficulty is only that of raising the currency 3 per cent in value. A most fearful and destructive depreciation had at one time taken place, but from that we had recovered, and he was happy to reflect that we had so far retraced our steps. We had nearly got home, and he hoped his right hon. friend would lend him his assistance to enable them to reach it in safety. He would venture to state, that in a very few weeks all alarm would be forgotten, and at the end of the year we should all be surprised that any alarm had ever prevailed at a prospect of a variation of 3 per cent in the value of the circulating medium."11673,800The amount paid for the half year ending Oct. 1818, was
73,800The amount paid for the half year ending Oct. 1818, was27,400For the half year ending 5th October 1820
27,400For the half year ending 5th October 182026,900 For the half year ending 5th April 1820
26,900 For the half year ending 5th April 182027,400 For the half year ending 5th October 1819
27,400 For the half year ending 5th October 1819£.58,400For the half year ending 5th April 1819
£.58,400For the half year ending 5th April 1819Amount paid for Stamps on Country Hankers1 Notes.Amount paid for Stamps on Country Hankers1 Notes.
Amount paid for Stamps on Country Hankers1 Notes.Amount paid for Stamps on Country Hankers1 Notes.
73,800The amount paid for the half year ending Oct. 1818, was
73,800The amount paid for the half year ending Oct. 1818, was27,400For the half year ending 5th October 1820
27,400For the half year ending 5th October 182026,900 For the half year ending 5th April 1820
26,900 For the half year ending 5th April 182027,400 For the half year ending 5th October 1819
27,400 For the half year ending 5th October 1819£.58,400For the half year ending 5th April 1819
£.58,400For the half year ending 5th April 1819Amount paid for Stamps on Country Hankers1 Notes.Amount paid for Stamps on Country Hankers1 Notes.
Amount paid for Stamps on Country Hankers1 Notes.Amount paid for Stamps on Country Hankers1 Notes.against the only true test of their soundness, and their profits depending on the amount of their issues, can it be imagined, that they will ever of their own accord contract those issues?" [Second Letter to Mr. Peel, p. 12.] It might have been expected from a writer who is so intemperate, and loud in his accusations of ignorance, towards those who differ from him on these subjects, that he would have himself shown some degree of knowledge of the principles, at least, if not of the practice of circulation. If Dr. Copplestone believes that the country bankers are restricted or protected from paying their notes by any act of Parliament, as the latter part of this sentence seems to imply, then he is right, and the country bankers, if so protected, would undoubtedly have shot out their circulation, and have filled up any existing void very much to their own profit. But the country bankers have always been liable to pay their notes in notes of the Bank of England; and their circulation has been consequently always reduced by a scarcity of Bank of England notes, and can only be extended in consequence of an extension of the Bank issues. If the country bankers had attempted to proceed according to this plan, it would have terminated in their ruin and they could not have succeeded in keeping one single note more in circulation. In what manner the country bank circulation has in fact, since this time, been increased, to keep up prices, may be judged of from the degree in which prices have kept up, as well as from the following statement of stamps on their notes:115contracted their issues; but to answer the demands of the market in the present state of the currency, other banks will increase theirs: to keep up the present prices, as one draws in, the other will shoot out. Being secure114***113112111110s.ld.s.l.d.s.l.During the nine years of the American war, beginning with 1775 and ending with 1783, the average price of wheat for that nine years was 2s.ld.s.l.d.s.l.101121785 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.
101121785 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.10821784 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.
10821784 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.81221783 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.
81221783 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.10721782 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.
10721782 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.9621764 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.
9621764 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.9021763 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.
9021763 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.01911762 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.
01911762 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.41021714 Peace establishment in July—the average price of Wheat £.
41021714 Peace establishment in July—the average price of Wheat £.101121713 Peace establishment in July—the average price of Wheat £.
101121713 Peace establishment in July—the average price of Wheat £.4621712 last year of war—the average price of Wheat £.
4621712 last year of war—the average price of Wheat £.per Quarter.
per Quarter.
101121785 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.
101121785 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.10821784 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.
10821784 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.81221783 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.
81221783 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.10721782 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.
10721782 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.9621764 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.
9621764 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.9021763 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.
9021763 Peace in February the average price of Wheat £.01911762 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.
01911762 last year of War the average price of Wheat £.41021714 Peace establishment in July—the average price of Wheat £.
41021714 Peace establishment in July—the average price of Wheat £.101121713 Peace establishment in July—the average price of Wheat £.
101121713 Peace establishment in July—the average price of Wheat £.4621712 last year of war—the average price of Wheat £.
4621712 last year of war—the average price of Wheat £.per Quarter.
per Quarter.the price of corn at the conclusion of any one of the three great wars in which the country was engaged the course of the last century; on the contrary, there appears a uniform rise; and there would have been no fall in corn at the conclusion of the late war, if that conclusion had not been accompanied by the removal of the restriction act, and an attempt to return to cash payments. The manner in which seven millions of gold was issued by the Bank of England in 1818, in an attempt to re-establish cash payments, was equivalent to giving a bounty of 25 per cent, on the foreign corn imported at that time. The following table shews the manner in which the price of wheat was affected by the establishment of peace at the conclusion of each of the three great wars in the last century:—109***108107d.s.l.milar instances. The depreciation in the value of ships, he says, (1820) "is proceeding more rapidly than ever." It has been said, that the importation of grain in 1817 and 1818, gave employment to ships. It did so; but it must be taken into account likewise, that in those years we exported seven or eight millions of gold, supplied by the Bank, at 3d.s.l.106l.l.l,l.l.l.† The following Statement, shewing what the fall in the price of ships has been since 1818, appears in a speech of Mr. Marryat's, reported in Vol. 1, p. 849 of the New Series of the Parliamentary Debates: "The Sesostris, launched in 1818, 480 tons, cost 12,175l.l.l,l.l.l.s.s.d.d.s.l.l.sl.l.*s.s.d.d.s.l.l.sl.l.**105l.104l.samel.103102101100l.9998***Mr. Attwood
133s.l.s.,132s.l.sl.d.s.ls.s.l.131 said, that he had been often called upon in repeated discussions in that House to return to the old metallic standard, and frequently reproached as one that prevented that desirable return to the ancient currency from being realized: he was reproached on the ground of supporting an artificial system, destructive of the public credit and the public prosper, and entreated to support the ancient legitimate standard. He had never any other opinion than that it ought to be supported, and believed it would never have been departed from, but on account of the pressure of circumstances, which established a strict and overwhelming necessity, a necessity that was not to be controlled or resisted; but although that standard had been so departed from, it had never been lost sight of; and accordingly, when circumstances allowed its re-adoption, it was solemnly restored. He was now called upon to accommodate that standard to engagements contracted during the war. He would ask what was the standard of 1797? precisely that of the war which ended by the peace of Amiens, and which the act for the resumption of cash payments proposed to restore. After the peace of Amiens the price of silver rose, and an alienation took place between the paper and bullion value, but it was not very perceptible till after some time; afterwards the standard varied year by year, month by month, and sometimes post by post. Now he wished to be informed, which of those fluctuating standards was it that the hon. member would fix upon for the fulfilment of our war engagements? Were these engagements to be fulfilled only in part or altogether? If the whole were intended
133s.l.s.,132s.l.sl.d.s.ls.s.l.131The Chancellor of the Exchequer
134 expressed his surprise at the contradiction between the principles advocated by his hon. friend the member for Taunton on a former occasion, and his practice on the present. His hon. friend had formerly supported the necessity of placing our currency on a basis which nothing could shake, and he now made a motion to refer the whole question to a committee, the effect of which would be to set all afloat again, to undo every thing that had been done, and to replunge the country into all those embarrassments and ail those fluctuations from which so
134Mr. Grenfell
l. presented a petition from a number of dealers in wool praying for a repeal of the new duty on Foreign Wool. The petitioners set forth, that, in consequence of this tax, the importation of foreign wool had fallen off very materially, the consequence of which was, that certain branches of the woollen manufacture had suffered greatly. He had learned from a letter which was dated so late as the 8th of February last, that in one port of Spain no less than three American vessels were loading with wool, which it was found useless to send here, on account of the high duty with which it was charged. This was a circumstance entirely new in our commercial transactions, and showed the bad effect which the tax produced. A gentleman having 300 bags of wool consigned to him, was compelled on account of the duty to send them abroad; and a merchant at Liverpool having purchased 350 bags, finding that the commodity could not bear the extent of duty, had shipped the wool to the United States. A communication had been made to him, from a respectable house in the city, stating that a demand to the amount of. about 6,000l.Mr. Wilson
 said, that a more important subject could not possibly be brought under the consideration of that House. He could not help stating his conviction, that if parliament did not listen to the voice of the manufacturers, Great Britain was in danger of losing a large portion of her trade.Mr. Baring
s.s.140 said, that several lion, gentlemen, in the course of these discussions, had professed themselves shaken in the opinions they had at first entertained. For himself, every thing had gone to confirm him in that which he had
s.s.140Mr. Gurney
146 said, it was admitted on all hands that some shock would be felt by the country. To make that shock as slight as possible was the business and the duty of parliament. He agreed, that to return to cash payments by degrees was the best plan that could be adopted; but, at the time that it was. resolved to adopt that plan, he was not given to understand that the one pound notes were to be altogether withdrawn from circulation—he thought that it would be left at the option of the public either to get at the Bank a one pound note or a sovereign; but he was now informed that the Bank intended to withdraw one pound notes altogether—a step of which the country had just reason to complain. If it was intended as a means to prevent
146Mr. Cripps
 said, he should support the amendment. If good resulted from the inquiry, so much the better; at any rate, it would be some satisfaction to know that so important a question had not been disposed of with every possible consideration being paid to it.Mr. Wilson
 thought the subject required immediate consideration. He should therefore also support the amendment.Mr. Wodehouse
 said, that the real point on which the public distress hinged was the change of the currency. The bill now insisted on might drive Bank notes out of circulation to the amount of six millions, which, together with the six millions of gold locked up in the coffers of the Bank, would diminish the currency by 12 millions. How was such a diminution to be supplied? It was the policy of the Bank to return to cash payments; because it was their interest to pay off a number of small notes which had been repeatedly forged. The prosecutions occasioned by forgeries had led to great expense, which it was desirable to prevent. The proposed measure might tend to reduce forgeries, but burglaries and highway robberies would increase as forgery decreased. He implored the House maturely to weigh the question, which was ten thousand times more important than the malt tax.Mr. Alderman Heygate
s. maintained, that prior 1797, gold and silver formed a legal tender; and that if they did not choose now to return to the double standard, they would be perfectly justified in raising the value of the sovereign to 21s.Mr. Baring
 expressed his belief that if the present measure did not restore them to a permanent metallic currency, it was in vain to hope success from any other.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 observed, that they would now have a gold standard distinct from all the nations in the world.Mr. Baring
 wished to learn, whether there was any foundation for the rumour, that an application had been made by the bank of Ireland for a renewal of their charter. If such an application had been made, and ministers were to accede to it the bank of England would have a good right to demand a like privilege; and when the House considered the immense profits made by that establishment, it must strike them as being a subject well worthy of their attention.Mr. Grenfell
 expressed himself unprepared to give an immediate answer. He trusted, however, that whatever measure might be brought forward upon this subject, would meet with the approbation of parliament.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that the apprehension of the hon. gentleman was unfounded. No negotiation of this kind could be brought near its termination without the knowledge of parliament.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 did not know how a great country like this could go on without a national bank. At the same time he thought that to renew the charter of a bank, of which charter several years remained unexpired, was a question of very great importance.Mr. Baring
 wished distinctly to know whether any negotiation had already commenced. He knew very well that if ministers came down to that House and stated that they had made an engagement with the bank, the House would at once sanction it; and therefore, when the right hon. gentleman spoke of an appeal to parliament, he begged leave to say that it was no appeal at all. In a poor country a national bank might be of great service; but in a rich and powerful country like this, he could see no necessity for such an overgrown etablishment, with their bonuses and their hangings. He traced all the evils which had afflicted the country for many years, to the proceedings adopted by the Bank and by the government. He must enter his protest against the negotiation.Mr. Bennet
 deprecated such observations as those that had fallen from the hon. member. With respect to bonuses, they had always operated beneficially for the public; and the Bank, it should not be forgotten, had on all occasions shown themselves most anxious to assist the country. As to the number of forgeries, it was certainly a most unfortunate circumstance; but could the hon. member suppose, that the Bank had any interest in multiplying prosecutions? They did all in their power to prevent the commission of the crime; but their object was not so easily effected as the hon. gentleman imagined.Mr. Pearce
150 observed, that the question relative to the bank of Ireland was second to one other only, in its import-
150Mr. F. Lewis
all said, he would vote for the amendment, because he was convinced the subject was one which would ultimately force itself upon the attention, of the House. Inquiry must come, and he looked upon the present as the most convenient time for instituting that inquiry. The House would recollect how often he and his hon. friends had, as it were, persecuted that House with motions to compel the Bank to return to a sound currency. The right hon. gentleman opposite, and those who acted with him, uniformly resisted those motions. The right hon. gentleman boldly asserted, that there was no depreciation to guard against; and there was a resolution framed by him, and supported by a majority of that House, which broadly declared that no depreciation existed. Now, however, the right hon. gentleman, with great simplicity, and certainly with great candour, talked of the great depreciation, and was willing to found legislative measures upon it. His noble friend (lord Folkestone) had been charged with abetting rapine and spoliation, because he wished the whole subject revised; while, so far from being exposed to such imputations, he was on the contrary the best asserter of public faith. It was said that it would be time enough to reconsider the claims of the public creditor when the agriculturist had paid his all. If the statements of agricultural distress were not exaggerated, that allLord A. Hamilton
s.l.139138l.l. said, he would not have troubled the House if he had not been so pointedly alluded to in the course of the debate. He was not answerable, he said, for the effect which the present measure might have upon particular classes; but he contended that if the advice which he had given long ago had been adopted—if the Bank, instead of buying, had sold gold, as he recommended—the effect would have been very different from what it was at present. It was impossible, on any system of metallic circulation, to guard against the alterations to which the metals themselves were liable; yet all the complaints they had heard that night referred to the changes in the value of the metals. When the measure of 1819 had been adopted, they had known that the alteration that it would make between gold and paper would be 4 per cent: yet with that knowledge, they had, in all the difficulties with which they were surrounded, recommended the measure. The hon. member for Taunton had entered into a speculation on the subject, as if a gold standard had been an innovation of 1819. But that standard had been adopted some time between 1796 and 1798. Up to that period, gold and silver had been the standard. The chancellor of the exchequer had laboured under a mistake when he had said that silver had been a legal tender only to the amount of 25s.l.139138l.l.Mr. Ricardo
144143l.ld.s.l.s.l.142d.s.l.s.l.141 said, he had offered himself to the House immediately after his hon. friend (Mr. Ricardo), not to controvert the principles he had stated, in most of which he concurred, but to deny the correctness of his statement, that the depreciation of property occasioned by the measures of 1819, did not exceed 4 to 6
144143l.ld.s.l.s.l.142d.s.l.s.l.141Mr. Ellice
 defended the proposed compensation, maintaining that, according to every principle of justice, individuals should not be allowed to suffer by arrangements made for the public service, especially where a great saving would result to the public from such arrangements.Mr. Goulburn
maximum145l.l.,l. corroborated the statement of the hon. member for Coventry, respecting the losses sustained by those whose speculations had commenced in the years 1817, 1818, and 1819. He had seen a statement of the concerns of a mercantile House, which had vested 360,000maximum145l.l.,l.Mr. Irving
137l.136l.l.,l.s.s.ds.ls.l.sl.135s.,s.,s.,s.s.s.s. was of opinion, that the cause of all the distress which existed in the country might be summed up in these two principles—the pressure of excessive taxation, rendered still more heavy by the attempt to return from a false and fictitious, to a sound currency. But however much we might feel that for a time, it would be better than to return to that unsound state of our currency from which we were now emerging. The question now was, whether, owing the immense debt which had been contracted for the country, we should pay it in a debased or in a sound and metallic currency. On this subject, he thought the conduct of ministers had been most reprehensible. The chancellor of the exchequer had induced the House, ten years ago, to come to a resolution, which certainly he considered a disgraceful one. He had proposed, and the House had adopted the proposition, that a pound should not be taken for less, nor the guinea sold for more than its nominal value; and upon this, soon after, an act was passed, making it a misdemeanor to take more than 21137l.136l.l.,l.s.s.ds.ls.l.sl.135s.,s.,s.,s.s.s.s.Mr. Monck
 thought there was no necessity for going into a committee on this subject, after that House had given such ample deliberation to it. He was convinced that it was the political events of Europe, and not the report of the committee of 1819, which had brought about the state of things so much complained of. For some time there had been a very steady favourable exchange with foreign countries; and being satisfied that this would continue, he should vote against any further revision of the question.Mr. Pearse
147 could not agree, that the depreciation of the currency was the real cause of the agricultural distress. As a proof that that could not be correct, he had only to advert to the fact, that within the last nine months corn fell 80 or 90 per cent, whilst the currency had not depreciated at all in the same proportion. He never knew capital so easily obtained as within the last two or three years. The Bank refused no accommodation to persons who offered a fair security. In his opinion, the effect of issuing two or three millions by the bank of
147Mr. John Smith
 said, that he would gratify his hon. friend with an answer. When they recollected the immense profits which the bank of England had made, and that that body was not disposed to take care of the national debt without being paid a large sum, they ought to take care that no proposition was acceded to without being brought regularly before that House.Mr. Hume
l.91 denied that it was the disposition of his hon. friend to refuse compensation where a fair claim was made out. But his hon. friend objected, as he did himself, to invest government with the discretion to allow pensions to whom they pleased, and to what extent they pleased. The noble secretary for foreign affairs had himself justified the principle of such an objection, by declaring that a similar discretion, in the act of the 50th of the late king, had been so abused, that he was willing to give it up. Upon the ground of this declaration then, he would I oppose the proposition to which his hon. I friend had objected. But he had still stronger grounds. In the Ordnance office for instance, he found, from a document on the table, that in consequence of a similar discretion, superannuation pensions were allowed to young men of 23 years of age. He could not then grant a discretion so liable to be abused. Let a case be stated to the House, where, from services rendered, compensation was fairly due, and he had no doubt that it would be promptly granted. But, then,
l.91Mr. Hume
 thought the question ought to be fully inquired into.Mr. Hart Davis
l.ex parte said, as notice of a motion for the repeal of the tax had been given, it would be better to go into a consideration of the question when that motion was made, instead of arguing it on the l.ex parteMr. Huskisson
149 said, from the manner in which the right hon. gentleman had evaded the question, it might be inferred that some foundation existed for the ru-
149Sir H. Parnell
 entered into a short statement of the amelioration that took place in the state of the coin in 1776, and argued, that gold was then considered as the legal standard of the country.Mr. W. Pole
 observed, that the hon. mover complained of the discretion vested in the officers of the House being too narrow; but surely it was fitting to see that the persons applying were of that description that ought to be admitted. He believed there was no instance of a proper person being refused admission; and therefore he hoped the hon. gentleman would withdraw his motion.Mr. Bankes
156 challenged the hon. gentleman, if he had any case of grievance, to state it to the House; but at present he
156Sir C. Long
159158157 then rose. He said, he would not enter at much length into the subject at present, because he believed the motion for the appointment of a committee of inquiry would not be objected to. It would be, therefore, only necessary briefly to point out the principal topics of complaint which an inquiry would go to redress. The first was the irregular and inconvenient construction of the gaol. It was built near the river, and its foundation in some parts being
159158157Mr. Alderman Wood
161 observed, that he had made some inquiry relative to these charges, and the result not having been satisfactory to his own mind, he thought a further inquiry ought to take place, and was due not only to the character of the gaoler, but of the magistrates. He thought the conduct of the magistrates entitled to commendation; they had made great improvements by introducing accommodation and discipline into the gaol, which did not exist there before. He
161Dr. Lushington
 admitted, that this was a case fully justifying inquiry, and was decidedly of opinion, that the circumstances of the case called upon them to appoint a commission in preference to a committee.Mr. Bathurst
162 observed, that some of the complaints respecting Ilchester gaol were now allowed to be true by gentlemen who, when the subject was on a former occasion brought before the House by the worthy alderman, denied every word he uttered. One hon. gentleman had even gone so far as to state, that he believed the worthy alderman had not visited the gaol at all. In such a case as this, the House would do wrong not to take the inquiry into its own hands. He thought the best mode of inquiry was by a committee, and not by commission, which in the case of Lincoln castle, had turned out a mere mockery. He had
162Mr. Bennet
 could not help adverting to the opinion which had gone abroad, that the libraries on the continent, particularly in France, were more easy of access than that of the British Museum. That this opinion was Unfounded would at once appear by adverting to the fact, that the library of the British Museum was open six hours a clay, with only a vacation of three weeks in the course of the whole year; whereas the libraries of Paris were open only four hours a day, with a vacation of six weeks.Mr. Gurney
 stated, that he had had no communication with Mr. Finnerty on the subject, but he believed him to be entitled to as much personal credit as the hon. baronet himself.Mr. Bennet
 did not pretend to say that the conduct of the gaoler might not be exceptionable, but he was sure that not the slightest blame could be attributed to the visiting magistrates. The best means had been used to improve the gaol, especially with regard to its relation to the river; the foundation was several feet above the level of the river. He preferred a commission, by which both time and money would be saved.Sir T. Lethbridge
 spoke in favour of a commission, observing, that although all the witnesses for the complainants might be at large, it did not follow that some of the witnesses on the other side might not be in prison. So that if a committee were even appointed, it might be necessary to resort to a commission at last. As to what had been suggested by the hon. member for Appleby, that the appointment of the commission might invest government with some trumpery patronage, he was not surprised at such a suggestion from such a quarter; but he had no hesitation in stating, that no consideration of patronage could weigh with him, or any of his friends near him, upon a question of this nature.Mr. Robinson
 allowed that it was not desirable to go back to the system of 1792. But his hon. friend made no such proposition. His amendment was, to allow three times the sum expended in 1792. The duties of the office were considerably greater in 1807 than at present, and the expence much less.Colonel Davies
 observed, that the amendment was founded on the report of the committee of that House, appointed, and he might say packed, by the gentlemen opposite. The reduction of the number of regiments must have considerably reduced the duty of the adjutant-general's office. He wished to ask the House whether, in the present state of the country, they were determined not to reduce one shilling of these estimates? If so, there would be but one opinion as to what that House was in the mind of every honest man in the country.Mr. Bennet
 hoped the House would not allow itself to be led into a serious discussion by all the babbling trifles that were uttered with respect to every gaol in the kingdom. The appointment of commissions or committees was a power which the House ought to exercise rarely.Mr. D. Browne
l. objected to the item, and moved a reduction to 600l.Mr. Bennet
l.l., complained that the hon. gentleman should have brought the charge of profligate expenditure against him, without having previously informed himself of the fact. The present arrangement had been made in 1807, and the duties of the office had considerably increased. The salary of the judge-advocate-general was not, as the hon. gentleman supposed, 5,180l.l.,The Judge Advocate
168 perfectly agreed with the lion, gentleman as to the extravagance of the sum proposed; and wished to know at how many general courts-martial the present judge-advocate-general had presided? The deputy-judge-
168Sir R. Fergusson
 stated a recent instance, when the quarter-master-general was called upon to discharge an extensive and important duty, in consequence of several regiments of the line marching to Glasgow.The Lord Advocate
 of Galway, was as ready to economize as any man, but it was neither economy nor prudence to reduce the salaries of public officers. The army should have the highest legal talent. The judges were not liberally paid; and therefore a comparison of their salaries and that of the right hon. gentleman was unfair. He should vote for the larger sum.Mr. Martin,
l.l.l. said, that the judge-advocate had been under secretary of state for 12 years, and could not therefore be entitled to any compensation on the ground of giving up his profession. If the salary of his office was 2,500l.l.l.Dr. Lushington
 said he should be glad to see any the smallest reduction made in the estimates.Mr. Bennet
 said, the rule which he found established, and which he had observed was, for the judge-advocate to attend in person only at the trial of general officers. The trouble and investigation in other cases were however just the same.The Judge Advocate
 begged to ask, how-many courts-martial on commissioned officers the right hon. gentleman had attended since he held his office?Sir R. Fergusson
 stated, that he had attended all the courts-martial held at headquarters except one, and their number, he believed, amounted to six.The Judge Advocate
 said, the ground for the reduction of the salary of the judge-advocate had failed, because it had been shown that the business was as great now as it had been in time of war. The argument drawn from the depreciation of money would apply to all offices.Mr. Bathurst
 thought that if a commission were appointed, it ought to consist of persons perfectly acquainted with the prison. He would object to any paid commission.Mr. Harbord
 then moved as an amendment, "That an humble address be presented to his majesty, that he will be graciously pleased to issue a commission to inquire into what has been, and now is, the condition and treatment of prisoners confined in Ilchester gaol, the conduct and management of the said gaol, and the site and buildings of the same." After some further conversation, the question being put, "That the words proposed to be left out stand part of the question," was put and negatived. The main question as amended, was then put and agreed to.Mr. Goulburn
160 seconded the motion, but in doing so, did not pledge himself to any opinion; his object was to ascertain whether the charges were true or false. They were charges of the most serious nature, and if they were not substantiated, he hoped every one would join with him in giving the character of the gaoler its just vindication; but if they were true, or bore the slightest approximation to truth—if any one of the gross acts of irregularity and debauchery charged on the gaoler had been committed, he was sure every member would join with him in visiting the gaoler with the severest punishment. He was charged by a person who had published a pamphlet on the subject of the prison (Mr. Hunt), with having given a high character of the gaol contrary to all fact. He could only say, that he had visited the prison, and discovered the errors of its construction; but he found there such a system of discipline and industry, as reflected the highest credit on the character of the gaoler; but he acknowledged, that in minor matters he might be liable to deception: whatever was good in those things was made obvious to every one, what was evil was concealed and kept out of view. He had gone to the prison, unacquainted with the name of the gaoler: he did not even know one of the magistrates, and it was through the intervention of a friend that he procured admission. What he had seen he had faithfully described: if he had been imposed upon when he gave that description, there was but one atonement which he could make, and that was, that when in the committee he would be as ready to expose his own mistakes as those of any body else. He would most heartily join with the worthy alderman to detect the truth; and he would join with others to do justice to the character of the gaoler,
160Mr. Buxton
l.165 said, that an hon. baronet who had been in the War-office, was
l.165Mr. John Smith
 expressed his surprise at the words used by the hon. member. As the hon. member had come from Ireland, where oppression, especially in prisons, was notoriously so familiar, his feelings might be steeled to the complaints or sufferings of prisoners. But the parliament of England was not yet, he hoped, prepared to adopt such indifference, or to sanction such scenes as had desolated and degraded Ireland. The case stated by the worthy aldermen was so flagitious, that he could not conceive it possible for the House to refuse inquiry.Mr. Hume
l.l.l. said, that though the office of quarter-master-general was one of considerable labour and importance in time of war, it was monstrous that the country should be burdened with so many quarter-master-generals, &c. in time of peace. Above 3,000l.l.l.Mr. Hume
l.164l.l.,l.l. was utterly at a loss to know for what purpose such an expense was necessary. In 1796 or 1798, a period of war, the whole establishment of the office of the commander-in-chief consisted of sir H. Bunbury and three clerks. The expense of that establishment in the present year was near 6,000l.164l.l.,l.l.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.169l. begged to remind the House, that the salary of the former advocate-general (sir C. Morgan), who not only acted as advocate-general, but as secretary to the board of general officers, amounted in the whole to 1,033l.l.l.169l.Mr. Hume
 contended, that there were five permanent district quarter-masters at present, whereas there were no such officers in 1792.Mr. Hume
 requested to hear from the noble lord, the particular duty the officer had to discharge.Mr. Hume
170 said, that the right hon. gentleman who now filled the chair of that House, and who preceded the learned gentleman in his office, had, he understood, attended, with one exception, every general court-martial held in London during the
170Mr. Hume
s. said, if the hon. gentleman would propose a reduction of 5s.Mr. R. Martin
 was not disposed to press the motion to a division. As the right hon. baronet had challenged him to produce a case of hardship, he would mention two. The first was the case of a gentleman engaged in the profession of the law, and who had been a contributor to the Museum. This gentleman, whose name was Jones, wrote to Mr. Planta requesting admission to the reading-room, and and was answered that a reference was required. The consequence was, that for these three months Mr. Jones had been unable to obtain admission. The other case was that of the son of an eminent professor at Geneva, who wished for admission to see the manuscript of Rousseau's works, but who received the same answer, and consequently had not been able to procure admission.Mr. Lennard
 in submitting the motion of which he had given notice, stated, that his object was to put the House in possession of the number of persons who, in the last five years, had applied for admission to the reading-room of the British Museum without success. It appeared, indeed, by the returns, that the number of admissions was exactly equal to the number of applications, and that the greatest inconvenience to which applicants were subjected by the present regulations, was merely a postponement as it was called. But when this postponement was continued till the person applying for admission obtained a recommendation from a trustee, or an officer of the house, in many cases it must amount to a refusal. All he thought necessary was, that the officers should ascertain that the persons applying were of that respectability and station in life, which, were they personally known to them, would procure their admission. The names of all the persons who had applied within the last five years might easily be furnished; and if no list had been kept of those whose applications had been postponed, then another mode must be taken to ascertain their numbers, and he must apply to the persons themselves to come forward. He concluded by moving for an "account of all applications to be admitted to the Reading, Room of the British Museum, within the last five years, which had been postponed till the person applying could furnish the required reference."Mr. Lennard,
l.l. would vote for a committee in preference to a commission. In one case the House had the affair in its own hands; in the other it listened to commissioners appointed by the Crown, of whom he confessed he entertained a peculiar jealousy. He did not like to see places made on such occasions as this, of 1,000l.l.Mr. Creevey
 had no hesitation in saying, that the labours, not only of the chief justice, but of the puisne judges, far exceeded those of the right hon. gentleman. He regretted, that particular circumstances prevented him from attending in his place to assist those who had so honourably opposed the enormous grants of the public money—exertions which if they did not tell at the present time, would operate most beneficially hereafter.Mr. Denman
155154 rose to present a Petition from the Roman Catholic Bishop, and between 80 and 90 Roman Catholic Clergymen of the diocese of Limerick. It stated, that the Petitioners are ready to testify in any manner that may be required of them, their unbroken and undivided allegiance to his majesty: that there is no language too strong or too significant to express the sincerity of their disclaimer of foreign authority; but they objected, on religious grounds, to the second bill which had been lately introduced into the House. They stated their objections temperately, but firmly, casting themselves, however, on the judgment and impartial justice of parliament, not to pass a law which may be a violation of conscience. There was no individual more entitled to respect and deference, than the prelate who had signed the petition, and no class of the community had proved themselves more deserving than the Catholic clergy. He would take that opportunity of setting himself right with the House, with regard to what fell from him on a former occasion. He had then stated, that by the capitulation of Limerick, Catholics would have been protected from all the disabilities of which they had now to complain. He had stated, that those articles had been violated, and that to their infraction, all the sufferings of the Catholics might be traced. When he made this assertion on a former occa-
155154Mr. Spring Rice
 bore testimony to the facility with which proper persons obtained admission.Mr. Dickinson
 confessed that, knowing what he did of the gaoler, he should be extremely surprised if these allegations could be proved. As to the disorders which were said to have prevailed in the gaoler's house, it was true that they had existed; and it was also true that the magistrates lost not one moment upon information being conveyed to them, in inquiring into the truth. It being found that these malpractices had gone on through the connivance of five or six servants, whose duty it was to have informed the gaoler, they were instantly discharged but the evil was proved to have existed entirely without the knowledge of that individual. As to the infirmary, the ground had been purchased and the building was still going on. With respect to the water, he had himself tasted it, and he understood it was uniformly good. He could of his own knowledge affirm that the bed of the river was 18 feet below the surface of the prison; and so far from the cells being exposed to any noxious effluvia, they were airy and commodious. The hon. gentleman then entered into some explanation relative to the case of Esther Church, a Quakeress, confined for debt, and read a letter from an individual of her own persuasion, to prove that the most humane attentions had been uniformly rendered to her by the gaoler. More than this, her own voluntary acknowledgements, had confirmed the account of her good treatment. He submitted, on the whole, whether it would not be better—as no person was more anxious than himself that the truth should be elicited in this case—to have a commission rather than a committee.Mr. Dickinson
l. said, that the public were to pay 900l.Mr. W. Smith
 said, they had that night had another proof of the unfair manner in which observations originating on his side of the House were treated; for no sooner had a complaint been made of a general system of profligate expenditure, than the right hon. gentleman rose, and took the whole charge to himself, whereas, the charge was against the system, and not against the individual.Mr. W. Smith
 said, he had no idea whatsoever of making apersonal allusion to the right hon. gentleman. He could have harboured no such intention, as the right hon. gentleman was perfectly unknown to him. He said, and would repeat it, that he considered the whole system to be one of profligate expenditure. His majesty's speech from the throne, and the speeches of ministers, had led him to expect a great reduction of expense. But he had been so much disappointed, that though no man was more inclined to support ministers, he could not do so when he saw them resist every proposition that tended to retrenchment. He was determined to do his duty to the country, while he had the honour of a seat in that House, without indulging in any personal feeling or motive.Mr. Chetwynd
l.l. objected to the grant as a profligate expenditure of the public money. The allowance to the judge-advocate exceeded the salary of the lord-chief-justice of England, and he had not only a deputy-adjutant, but an assistant-deputy in his office. Fie hoped the country gentlemen would remember their pledges to their constituents, and draw the strings of the public purse a little tighter. With that view, he should move, as an amendment, that the sum of 3,180l.l.Mr. Chetwynd
 stated, that having been represented by the writer of a pamphlet on the gaol, as having played cards there and got drunk, he would support the motion for investigation.Sir Isaac Coffin
 said, that the hon. member was not justified in calling the commission of inquiry relative to Lincoln Castle a mockery. He objected to the source whence the hon. member drew his information; he believed he had it from Mr. Finnerty.Sir M. Cholmeley
s.s. protested against the idea of taking the salaries of 1806 as any standard for the salaries of the present day. In 1806, corn was sold at 88s.s.Lord Milton
 said, the office was as old as the Scotch Union, and the duty of the quarter-master-general was to make such arrangements as would prevent the troops in Scotland clashing on their march.Lord Palmerston
 observed, that the duties of the adjutant-general's office were multifarious, and quite distinct from those of the commander-in-chief. They consisted in receiving half yearly returns from every regiment in the service, returns twice a month from the inspecting-officers instituting inquiries into claims of every kind, transacting all the business which arose from the recruiting and dismissal of soldiers, granting leave of absence, &c. The House must be sick of references to the year 1792: it was really nonsense to talk of what existed in 1792, unless it could be shown that the business which was now to be carried on was the same as in that year. There was no office under government in which clerks were more closely employed. In 1792, there was nothing known of the state of regiments, or of the claims of individuals. Injustice was then endured from the difficulty of obtaining redress; now, every man of the lowest description in the kingdom knew if his claims were just, that they would be attended to; and his claims often occasioned more correspondence than cases of higher importance. He had seen a hundred letters on the subject of the claim of a private soldier.Lord Palmerston
 observed, that the hon. member was upon this occasion completely caught in his own toils; for this was one of the establishments which was precisely on the same footing of expense that it stood in 1792.Lord Palmerston
 replied, that sir Ralph Cooper, had been a clerk in the foreign department of the War-office, on the abolition of which, he received, as was invariably the usage, the pension alluded to.Lord Palmerston
 said, he should then press his amendment.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that the right of election which was claimed by the petitioners, had been frequently decided against.Lord Lowther
 said, he would withdraw his amendment on the understanding that he should propose it as a substantive motion.Mr. Hobhouse
172 said, that with all deference to his hon. friend, he did not think it the right course that the petition should merely be laid on the table; for if the petitioners had stated that which they could make out by evidence, when they said that a peer of parliament had habitually interfered in the election of members, he thought it impossible that they could suffer a practice to go on in defiance of their declared privileges—and constantly repeated votes, and of the law of the land, without taking notice of it. That the petition should lie on the table would be a very inadequate measure, and he should therefore move to refer it to a committee of privileges. Whatever opinions might prevail in the House as to a sweeping parliamentary reform, there could be no doubt as to the principle that the constitution disallowed the interference of peers in elections. It was provided so early as the reign of Edward 1st by the first statute of Westminster, that no peer or great man should interfere in elections, either by force of arms or malice—which malice meant (according to lord Coke's interpretation at least) the malice of money. In the reign of Elizabeth, the evil of patronage had got to some height; for they heard of a dame Dorothy Packington, who returned two members to the House. Of its height in modern times they had proof in a petition which had been presented to the House from the "Friends of the people" on the 6th of May, 1793, in which the petitioners stated and offered to prove at the bar, that a majority of the House at that day was returned by the nomination or influence of 154 patrons. So late as 1813, a petition had been presented to the House, staing that two seats in the House had been bequeathed by the will of the late sir John Johnstone, and the codicil was
172Mr. Hobhouse
 said, the case of the electors of Lyme Regis, in which borough there had been more litigation than in any other part of the kingdom, had long since been decided. It was not proper to make a complaint at this time relative to the right of enjoying the elective franchise. That could only be done by a petition against the returning officer immediately after an election. With respect to the allegation against a peer of the realm, how could the complaint be entertained when no name was mentioned and no act specified? He believed a great number of gentlemen who sat opposite could be pointed out as being returned to parliament by peers, or the relations of peers, for close boroughs. This, however was not a close borough. The electors consisted of a certain number of freemen and burgesses, who were not the dependants of any peer. He knew some of them who, he would venture to say, were as respectable as any men in the kingdom.Sir J. Graham
 said, that as it was distinctly stated by the petitioners, that a peer of the realm had for some years interfered in the election of members, the petition ought to be forthwith referred to the committee of privileges.Mr. Hutchinson
 said, that this was a petition which the House could not refer to a committee of privileges. The charges were of a vague and general nature; no peer was specified as having interfered; and therefore if the petition were referred the committee would have to ascertain what peer the allegation was directed against. But if this influence were proved, what punishment could they enforce? Except the peer happened to be the lord lieutenant of a county, or held an office under the Crown, from which he might be removed, by addressing his majesty, he feared that the House could inflict no punishment, A complaint of this kind had been formerly made against the duke of Bolton; but the committee found they could not bring it to a useful conclusion; and, after examining some witnesses, adjourned for four months. If bribery or some undue influence, which might be made the subject of a prosecution, were not proved, the House had no means of inflicting punishment.Mr. Wynn
 did not mean to oppose the motion for leave to bring in the bill, but was at the same time desirous of expressing his decided opinion that it was the most mischievous ever proposed for the adoption of that House. It would if it should pass, have the effect of introducing uncertainty into all mortgages; nor would any parties be disposed to lend until they conceived that they had obtained the highest possible interest. At present all money borrowed upon annuity must by law be registered, and this was a very operative check on that ruinous mode of raising money. By the proposed measure, this necessity would be removed. If unhappily it should receive the sanction of the House, he should move for an alteration of its title, and that it be called "a bill for more speedily ruining the young nobility and gentry of the country."Sir Robert Heron
178 thought that those who calculated upon any disadvantage to the landed interest from the measure, had never read the evidence taken before the committee upon this subject. From that evidence it appeared, that a measure of this nature was peculiarly calculated to serve the landed as well as the commercial interests. He could not see why money should not be an article as free in the market as land or goods. From the state of the laws referred to in the motion, many men in trade were often obliged,
178Mr. Philips
 deprecated the theory which this proposition had in view, cautioning the House to beware of theories from the sad experience of the measure for the resumption of cash payments. This, however, was the age of theories, and nothing was heard of but a recourse to first principles. He must, notwithstanding this cry, sanctioned as it was by authority, deprecate the proposed change in the laws against usury, as well as other changes, which he deemed wild and visionary speculations.Mr. R. Gordon
 confessed, that his prejudices were strong against the proposed alteration, and were founded in reflection upon what the country had suffered at former periods from an unlimited rate of interest. With regard to the sale of bread, there had been a maximum fixed by assize; and when that was repealed, great advantages, none of which had been realized, were anticipated to the consumer. The country, it should not be forgotten, had risen under the existing laws to an unrivalled degree of commercial prosperity, and trade had flowed into every channel where capital was found. He greatly feared that the measure was calculated to unsettle mortgages, and to persuade lenders that they ought to have obtained better terms.Mr. Calcraft
 said, that the measure would be of the greatest benefit to the country, and came before the House at the most safe and seasonable period. When introduced about six years ago, it might perhaps have created that alarm and derangement which some hon. members supposed it calculated to produce; because the war rate of interest was at that time above five per cent; but at present, when the rate of interest in the money market was below 5 per cent, there was no reason to apprehend such an inconvenience. He conceived that the measure would not be attended with so much benefit to the mercantile interests and moneyed men as to the landed interest.Mr. Baring
 said, he felt very considerable pleasure in seconding the motion, not on the mere principle of economy alone, but on the general principle of protecting the purity of election. He did not look upon it as affecting any particular administration. He would support it under any. At the same time, he was far from denying that every administration ought to have its fair influence in the country. Such fair influence he was not disposed to curb; but he did not wish to see it overflow its proper bounds, and carry every thing by power alone, without leaving any thing to depend on the mere character of an administration. He had listened with attention to the many cases cited by his hon. friend, in which, in his opinion, the influence of the government had been unduly exercised: but it was not on the strength of any of those cases, or all of them, that he should vote; for if all of them could be satisfactorily explained, still the principle of his vote would remain unaltered. He thought, however, that even by those cases that principle was strengthened; and he hoped his hon. friend would extend his diligent labours to other branches of the civil government. He did not mean by this, that the great officers of the Crown should be excluded from seats in that House; on the contrary, he wished that they should be in parliament; but he did not wish that they whose support depended entirely on the patronage of ministers in several public departments should be allowed to vote so long as they held such situations.Mr. Bernal
 supported the motion, which he contended was founded on the best and the most ancient principles of the constitution.Colonel Davies
 contended, that the principle of the bill, were it entertained by the House, could not be confined to Queenborough nor to the Ordnance department; it would extend a great deal further, and would be applied in the next instance to the navy and to others. It was impossible to separate the present question from the general subject of parliamentary reform. He could not approve of a measure which went to disfranchise, without adequate cause, a number of his majesty's subjects.Mr. Bathurst
 opposed the motion, upon the ground that England and Scotland ought, as regarded the duty, to be upon an equality. He hoped, in a future session, to see the tax overcome by the united efforts of both countries.Mr. Monck
 observed, that the question as it regarded Scotch barley was very distinct from the general question of the malt tax. A motion respecting the additional duty exacted from Scotland had been brought forward by the noble member for Lanarkshire. On that occasion the chancellor of the exchequer had pledged himself to take the subject into consideration.Sir G. Clerk
 said, he knew the course he was about to take was unpopular; but, as he believed the committee was proposed, not with a reference to the merits of the measure itself, but as a boon to the Scotch members to vote with the minister, he would oppose the motion.Sir R. Fergusson
 denied the assumption, that the present measure was intended to induce the Scots to vote with the administration. It was too much for gentlemen to oppose a committee on such an opinion as that. The leading object of the committee was, to enquire whether the statements of some of the Scots counties were correct. If their claims were not well grounded, he was sure the House would not listen to them.Mr. Mackenzie
The Chancellor of the Exchequer supported the motion though he confessed it was brought forward under very suspicious appearances. The Chancellor of the ExchequerMr. J. P. Grant
 said, he would vote for the motion, if the chancellor of the exchequer would give a proof of his sincerity, by allowing the committee to consider the case of the growers of inferior barley in England also. In Northumberland they suffered as much under the tax as in any part of Scotland. The House divided: Ayes 56; Noes 17.Sir M. W. Ridley
l.176 rose, in pursuance of notice, to call the attention of the House to the subject of the laws for regulating or restraining the interest of money. He alluded to those laws which had been passed for the avowed purpose of preventing usury. When he, in the year 1816, brought them under consideration, it was admitted by the chancellor of the exchequer, that they were in principle indefensible, but that the state of the public mind was at that time such as to render the agitation of the question dangerous. The right hon. gentleman added, that a time would no doubt arrive when the discussion might be safely entered on. He had afterwards consented to a second postponement of the subject, in consequence of representations made to him by the solicitors of the Bank. The committee to whom the question had been referred, had gone with the greatest attention into every branch of the inquiry, and had received very important evidence both from persons favourable and persons hostile to an alteration of the existing law. Amongst other witnesses, the hon. member for Portarlington (Mr. Ricardo) had been examined, Mr. Kaye the solicitor to the Bank, some of the first representatives of the monied interest in the city, and a name never to be mentioned without veneration, the late sir S. Romilly. The concurrent opinion of these last mentioned individuals was, that the usury laws answered no good purpose whatever. He would now state the substance of the resolutions to which the committee, on a full review of the evidence, had finally agreed. The first was, that the laws in question were continually evaded with success: that of late years they had been converted into a means of greatly increasing the expense to borrowers; and that
l.176Mr. Serjeant Onslow
179 thought the House and the public were very much indebted to the learned gentleman, for the measure which he had proposed; and expressed
179Mr. Ricardo
177 said, that the measure
177Mr. Davenport
199198 said, that upon this question he could not give a silent vote, lest his conduct should be exposed to misrepresentation. In deciding upon the vote which he meant to give on the present occasion, he entirely threw out of his view the general charges brought by his lion, friend against the Ordnance department, as well as the reply made to them by the right hon. gentleman. He did not know, indeed, how he could come to a safe vote upon these charges, without having the benefit of a previous investigation of them through the labours of a committee. Throwing these out of view, the point to which he wished to call the attention of the House was, that upon which he was inclined to support the proposition of his hon. friend. He was bound to show that in acceding to this motion, he was adopting no novel proceeding—that he was pursuing no new theory; but on the contrary acting remedially, and in the spirit of the existing law. As the law stood, it prevented numerous classes from voting at elections. In 1782, a law was passed to prevent public officers in the Excise and Customs from voting at elections. That law was found so salutary, the advantages of it were so universally felt, that twenty years afterwards, on the union with Ireland, the provisions of the
199198Mr. Tierney
 said, that his hon. friend who spoke last seemed to him to have mistaken both the disease and the remedy. The distress which existed arose from theory, and from the preposterous theory of a legislative interference with money dealings, which was not applied to any other branch of commerce. Some persons had been of opinion, that the same principle ought to be introduced into the manufacture and sale of bread; but in practice it would always be found most advantageous to leave the seller and purchaser, the lender and borrower, to make their own contracts according to their several necessities. It was by this course that they would ensure the best supply at the cheapest rate.Mr. J. P. Grant
171 rose to present a petition relative to the state of the representation of the people in that House from the resident but non-represented freeholders of the borough of Lyme-Regis. The petitioners stated, that, from the 23rd of Edward 1st, to the 14th of George 1st, 1727 the elective franchise was exercised by all the resident freeholders in the borough; but at the latter period the right was disputed, and by a decision of that House, in 1780, the right of voting was declared to be vested in the mayor, burgesses, and freemen only; since which time the borough had been under the patronage and disposition of a peer of the realm, who by his sole influence returned members to parliament for a series of years, generally his own personal friends or relations. It was perfectly well known who the peer here alluded to was; but as his name was not mentioned in the petition, he did not
171Mr. Lambton
 said, this was not an election petition, as it did not complain of an election, but complained that for many years the franchise had been taken away from them. The statement of the hon. baronet that he saw many members who were nominated by peers, was certainly a bad answer to the complaint of the petition. He rather wondered that the hon. baronet had not been called to order. But it seemed now a too generally admitted fact, to affect any squeam-ishness about, that members were nominated by peers. The question now was, whether the House would take any particular notice of this petition? Certainly it would be more consistent with its ordinary usage to admit the facts alleged, and to let the petition go forth to the world uncontradicted. However, as his own opinion was, that the subject was fit to be discussed in a committee, he should agree to the amendment.Mr. Lambton
 said, if there was any thing more clear than another it was that the interference of a peer in an election was a breach of privilege. If the complaint had referred to a particular election it would have been only cognizable by an election committee, but. as the abuse was alleged to be of long continuance, it formed a fit subject for a special examination. If the House suffered it to pass over without notice, it would not increase the confidence of the people out of doors.Mr. Monck
180 spoke strongly in support of the measure under discussion, which proposed to remove one of the remnants of the old and irrational system of assize, the servants of the Ordnance department We had had, in ancient times, an assize
180Mr. Monck
 was of opinion, after having read the petition, that it did not contain such a complaint as the House was bound to refer to the committee of privileges. After alluding to the right of exercising the elective franchise, the petitioners went on to complain, that a peer of the realm had used his influence in the election of members for this borough. This was a grave charge. But he was not prepared to say that influence arising from title, property, rank, distinction, was the same thing as interference. The House only condemned a corrupt and improper influence.Mr. J. H. Smyth
l.l.l.l.in the Customs, makes it 25,000l.
l.in the Customs, makes it 25,000l.
l.in the Customs, makes it 25,000l.
l.in the Customs, makes it 25,000l.188to which the expense of houses and servants in the Ordnance, and provisions
to which the expense of houses and servants in the Ordnance, and provisions£22,772190
£22,772190exclusively of provisions, which several have found them by government.
exclusively of provisions, which several have found them by government.3,735Freemen,—28 belonging to Customs and preventive service, ineligible to vote; the other 4; eligible to vote324,
3,735Freemen,—28 belonging to Customs and preventive service, ineligible to vote; the other 4; eligible to vote324,total 25 houses and 12 servants.
total 25 houses and 12 servants.£19,037
£19,0371,642Estimated profits arising from craft employed by the Ordnance, belonging to freemen of Queenbrought3
1,642Estimated profits arising from craft employed by the Ordnance, belonging to freemen of Queenbrought3three houses and three servants.
three houses and three servants.2,629Freemen's sons or relatives112.
2,629Freemen's sons or relatives112.32 houses and apartments, and 9 servants found; officers at public expense.
32 houses and apartments, and 9 servants found; officers at public expense.14,766Freeman1471.
14,766Freeman1471.NO.
NO.ABSTRACT.
ABSTRACT.
to which the expense of houses and servants in the Ordnance, and provisions
to which the expense of houses and servants in the Ordnance, and provisions£22,772190
£22,772190exclusively of provisions, which several have found them by government.
exclusively of provisions, which several have found them by government.3,735Freemen,—28 belonging to Customs and preventive service, ineligible to vote; the other 4; eligible to vote324,
3,735Freemen,—28 belonging to Customs and preventive service, ineligible to vote; the other 4; eligible to vote324,total 25 houses and 12 servants.
total 25 houses and 12 servants.£19,037
£19,0371,642Estimated profits arising from craft employed by the Ordnance, belonging to freemen of Queenbrought3
1,642Estimated profits arising from craft employed by the Ordnance, belonging to freemen of Queenbrought3three houses and three servants.
three houses and three servants.2,629Freemen's sons or relatives112.
2,629Freemen's sons or relatives112.32 houses and apartments, and 9 servants found; officers at public expense.
32 houses and apartments, and 9 servants found; officers at public expense.14,766Freeman1471.
14,766Freeman1471.NO.
NO.ABSTRACT.
ABSTRACT.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.187l.l.,l.186l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.185l.l.l.l.184183182***181 in rising to submit the motion of which he had given notice, regretted that a question of so great constitutional importance had not fallen into the hands of some member more competent to do it justice. There were two points of view in which he wished to represent the subject to the House: first, as a constitutional question involving the consideration how far individuals under the influence of the Crown ought to be allowed to vote for members of parliament; and next, how far that influence was likely to lead to extravagance in keeping up offices and appointments not necessary for the public service. His attention had been more especially directed to this subject, in consequence of the inquiries which he had made into the state of the brought of Queenborough; and it would be in the recollection of the House that some weeks ago he had called their attention to various mal-practices, peculations, and abuses on the part of certain individuals in Sheerness, belonging to the borough of Queenborough, and connected with the Ordnance department. In almost every department of the Ordnance there were to be found individuals from the borough of Queenborough. Not only had new situations been created for freemen of that borough, but some most meritorious individuals had been turned out to make way for them. The object of his present motion was, to disqualify from voting at elections, in the same man-
l.l.l.l.in the Customs, makes it 25,000l.
l.in the Customs, makes it 25,000l.
l.in the Customs, makes it 25,000l.
l.in the Customs, makes it 25,000l.188to which the expense of houses and servants in the Ordnance, and provisions
to which the expense of houses and servants in the Ordnance, and provisions£22,772190
£22,772190exclusively of provisions, which several have found them by government.
exclusively of provisions, which several have found them by government.3,735Freemen,—28 belonging to Customs and preventive service, ineligible to vote; the other 4; eligible to vote324,
3,735Freemen,—28 belonging to Customs and preventive service, ineligible to vote; the other 4; eligible to vote324,total 25 houses and 12 servants.
total 25 houses and 12 servants.£19,037
£19,0371,642Estimated profits arising from craft employed by the Ordnance, belonging to freemen of Queenbrought3
1,642Estimated profits arising from craft employed by the Ordnance, belonging to freemen of Queenbrought3three houses and three servants.
three houses and three servants.2,629Freemen's sons or relatives112.
2,629Freemen's sons or relatives112.32 houses and apartments, and 9 servants found; officers at public expense.
32 houses and apartments, and 9 servants found; officers at public expense.14,766Freeman1471.
14,766Freeman1471.NO.
NO.ABSTRACT.
ABSTRACT.
to which the expense of houses and servants in the Ordnance, and provisions
to which the expense of houses and servants in the Ordnance, and provisions£22,772190
£22,772190exclusively of provisions, which several have found them by government.
exclusively of provisions, which several have found them by government.3,735Freemen,—28 belonging to Customs and preventive service, ineligible to vote; the other 4; eligible to vote324,
3,735Freemen,—28 belonging to Customs and preventive service, ineligible to vote; the other 4; eligible to vote324,total 25 houses and 12 servants.
total 25 houses and 12 servants.£19,037
£19,0371,642Estimated profits arising from craft employed by the Ordnance, belonging to freemen of Queenbrought3
1,642Estimated profits arising from craft employed by the Ordnance, belonging to freemen of Queenbrought3three houses and three servants.
three houses and three servants.2,629Freemen's sons or relatives112.
2,629Freemen's sons or relatives112.32 houses and apartments, and 9 servants found; officers at public expense.
32 houses and apartments, and 9 servants found; officers at public expense.14,766Freeman1471.
14,766Freeman1471.NO.
NO.ABSTRACT.
ABSTRACT.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.187l.l.,l.186l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.185l.l.l.l.184183182***181Mr. Hume,
l.200l. replied to the statement of the right hon. clerk of the Ordnance. He had understood the right hon. member to say that Savory had not applied to the board for employment: upon that point he would lay proof positive before the House, for he held in his hand a document no less decisive than the answer of Mr. Crewe to Savory's application, stating, that his request had been laid before the board, and that no situation could be found for him. The hon. member then went on to charge undue partiality upon the arrangements of the Ordnance department, and the grant of especial advantage to those servants of that department who chanced to be freemen of Queenborough. The voters of that borough took, he said, annually from government a sum of not Jess than 25,000l.200l.Mr. Hume
ex debito justitiœ173 said, that as this petition did not complain of a particular election, it could not be the subject of an election committee. But as the, Petitioners complained that, for a long course of years,
ex debito justitiœ173Mr. Hurst
197196l.l.l.l.195d.s.194193***192191in limine,190 said, that in rising to answer the hon. mover, and to state his opposition to the bill in every part, he had some difficulty, whether to commence with the conclusion of the hon. member's statement, or to go back to those with which he commenced. Notwithstanding the impression which the hon. member might have made on the House by his latter statements, he thought it would be better to take up the question and go on with it, as the hon. member had done; as he was confident, that he was enabled to give a satisfactory answer to every part of his speech. But first he begged to say of the proposed bill, that if it were of that vast importance which the hon. gentleman attached to it; if it went to create such a great change in the constitution of that House, he would put it to the hon. member, whether it would not have been bet-
197196l.l.l.l.195d.s.194193***192191in limine,190Mr. Robert Ward
 said, the petition was confined to the statement of a general evil, coupled with a complaint of the decision of the House as to the right of voting for the borough. No particular election was complained of, and no specific ground was laid for the interference of the House. The subject of the petition might be very proper for reference, upon a motion respecting the general state of the representation; but he did not think it a case to justify a reference to a committee of privileges.Mr. Huskisson
 said, that could not be done on the same day that the petition was laid on the table.The Speaker
175 said, that if the position of the hon. member was correct, the
175Sir J. Newport
 could not conceive how a bill of this nature was likely to operate injuriously towards the landed interest. On other points of legislation, the House was called upon to consider principles, but in the present case it was enabled to decide from practice. It was known that when the legal interest upon money was so much as eight per cent, money was at that rate invested in mortgage, and although eleven per cent could be obtained upon annuities with liberty to insure the life of the borrower, money was not transferred from mortgages to annuities. Why thon should the apprehension of such transfer be entertained in the present case, or that enabling men to sell the use of money at the market price would operate against the landed interest?Lord Althorp
 said, the present was not a general complaint; for it alluded to an individual instance, and an individual peer, though he was not mentioned by name; and it also stated, that that peer influenced the election. He considered this a direct breach of privilege, and highly fit to be considered in a committee.Lord Althorp
 did not see the necessity of adding such a clause to the bill. There would, he was sure be no objection, at the Bank, to exchange those large notes for current gold coin of the realm, or for one-pound notes. An hon. director had distinctly stated, that the Bank was prepared in any possible event, either to give small notes or the current coin of the realm, in exchange for notes of a large amount.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that rather than be responsible for any mistake, with respect to the existing law, he would agree to the clause.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 believed that the Bank neither was nor would be bound by law to pay its large notes in smaller notes or in cash, until 1823. Having this impression, he hoped his hon. friend would press his proposition.Mr. Grenfell
 was convinced that to withdraw the small notes from circulation would serve to aggravate the distress of the country. The Bank should be obliged to supply the country with one pound notes for the accommodation of the public. If, indeed, small notes were withdrawn while gold was issued at its sterling value, he could not conceive it possible to prevent the export of gold. Small bank-notes should be circulated in conjunction with gold; and so long as that was the case, he had no doubt that the former would be generally preferred, as notes were so much more convenient to carry than gold, and formed a great protection against robbery, thieves very naturally feeling it dangerous to deal in articles so likely to lead to detection. In order to guard against the export of our gold coin, it would, in his opinion, be expedient that it should rather be a token than a representative of value. This was the only country in Europe which did not charge seignorage; and that was a disadvantage to us which might be as fairly met by issuing gold, and silver also, as tokens above their real value, as that the banknote should be the standard of value. Such a plan appeared to him the only one that could be devised to prevent our gold coin from being exported. For instance, he would have the sovereign pass for a guinea, and the crown, as well as other denominations of coin, for something more than their real value.Mr. Bankes
l.206l.l.205 said, he should prefer a very great degree of public inconvenience to the numerous and dreadful evils which
l.206l.l.205Mr. Bennet
 expressed his opinion, that the wants of the community could not be adequately supplied by a cash circulation. If any-alarm should arise, and a run upon the banks take place in consequence, the gold would be immediately exported. He could not agree, however, with the suggestion, that it would be more advantageous to circulate the gold in the shape of tokens rather than as coin. With regard to the increased number of forgeries, it was to be attributed, partly to the increase of population, and partly to the general substitution of paper for coin. He believed that a reference to the late assizes would show, that offences of every other kind had also multiplied.Mr. Cripps
 said, that hon. gentlemen had argued as if the Bank restriction act was a measure asked for by the Bank, whereas it was forced upon them by the government, and by the political occurrences of the day. It should be recollected that the Bank was the representative of a large body of persons, whose interests they were bound to protect. He saw nothing reprehensible in the conduct of the Bank; on the contrary, his opinion had always been, that their conduct reflected the highest, credit upon them as trustees of the body for whom they acted.Mr. Calcraft
208 said, that when the hon. member spoke of the increased issues of
208Mr. Wilson
 expressed his doubt as to the efficacy of the bill. He wished to ask the chancellor of the exchequer, whether the Bank had a sufficient quantity of specie to replace, not only the whole of their own small notes, but those also of the country banks, which must be drawn out of circulation. He made this inquiry because it was not unlikely that the country bankers would withdraw their one pound notes as soon as this measure came into operation. The issue of those notes, by country bankers, was the least profitable, but most troublesome part of their business; and they had some time since an intention of withdrawing their small notes, which was not carried into effect, purely out of a consideration for the inconvenience it would produce to the country. If the Bank had been forced into their situation by the government, it was not fair to blame them for the effects which that situation had produced.Mr. Alderman Heygate
 said, that the hon. gentleman was never more mistaken than when he represented him as differing in opinion from his late lamented friend Mr. Horner. On the contrary, there was no one step which he had not taken in perfect concurrence with that learned gentleman. The hon. member adverted to a speech of Mr. Horner, in which he characterised the transactions between the government and the Bank, as a scene of rapacity on the part of the directors, and of extravagance and profligacy on the part of the chancellor of the exchequer.Mr. Grenfell
211 contended, that the country had a right to look for some reductions in the sixth year of peace. He objected to the practice of making an augmentation once allowed perpetual. The argument against reduction upon this
211Mr. Bernal
 though he agreed that the commander-in-chief was not overpaid, considered it absurd that the present reduced number of clerks in the office should receive an equally large amount of salary as when they were eight more in number. He had the strongest objection to the continuance of the chaplaincy, which might very well be dispensed with.Colonel Davies,
l. said, that if the 2,000l.Mr. Alderman Wood
 said, that the highest offices ought to sacrifice a part of their salaries, and then they might fairly call upon the subordinates to do the same.Mr. Alderman Wood
 objected to this vote, on the ground that there were not above two courts-martial in the course of a year requiring the attention of such an officer.Colonel Davies
 did not think the arduous duty of attending six courts-martial out of 3,000 men, sufficient to justify the payment of so large a sum.Mr. Bennet
 said, that ministers heretofore were put to their shifts; but now they had not a rag to cover them.Mr. Hutchinson
 considered the office nothing but a Scotch job.Mr. Bennet
 considered the office as altogether unnecessary.Sir R. Fergusson
l.l.l. objected to the item. He said, that in 1797, when the army extraordinaries amounted to upwards of six millions, the expences of the comptrollers did not amount to more than 4,475l.l.l.Colonel Davies
 said, there was no parity between the duties of army comptrollers in 1797 and the present period. The nature of the duties was almost wholly changed since 1806. In point of fact, their business was increased four-fold. Besides, they were not only comptrollers but auditors.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 supported the amendment.Mr. Bernal
 thought that an inconsiderable saving ought not be put in competition with the perfect auditing of accounts.Mr. Bankes
 said, he wished it was in the power of the government to reward military officers to a greater extent: but nothing could be more unjust than to charge government with illiberality.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
216 deprecated the continuance of laws which were attended with such fatal consequence to the peace of the country. Skirmishes and battles were stated to have taken place between the people and the troops, which had been attended with the loss of lives. He hoped
216Mr. Bernal
 said, that the whole of the coast of Sussex was in a state of irritation and alarm, which had been aggravated by a recent melancholy occurrence. A fisherman had been, as was well known, killed under very suspicious circumstances; two juries had declared that the seaman of the preventive service who killed him was guilty of wilful murder. The judge had thought fit to recommend the man to mercy, on which recommendation the government had acted. The alarm was now such that all the fishermen at Hastings had drawn up their boats, and the whole population were in fear of the recurrence of these dreadful atrocities. Within the last eighteen months, some dozen of persons had been put to death on that coast. It could never be maintained that these murders should be committed (for some of them undoubtedly were murders) to prevent gin or lace from being now and then landed.Mr. Hobhouse
 said, that a judge who conceived that a prisoner was innocent of a crime of which he was found guilty by the prejudices of a jury, and yet did not recommend him to mercy, would be unworthy of his station. To a recommendation in such a case, the government could not do otherwise than attend. With regard to the feelings on the coast, they unhappily shewed that a great portion of the population was disposed to smuggling, and that, that disposition could only be repressed by moderate, yet efficacious measures. Conflicts similar to those now complained of had formerly taken place, when the state of the revenue was very different front what it now was.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 deprecated the existing state of the revenue laws, and assured the House that the const of Dorsetshire and Devonshire were in a state quite as disturbed as the coast of Sussex.Mr. R. Gordon
217 said, there were no grounds for the alarm which prevailed on the coast. He lamented what had recently occurred as much as any man. The person who was accused of murder on going into a boat to search, had been in the first instance thrown out of it. This led to that struggle which had occurred, and which grew out of the resistance offered
217Sir G. Cockburn
 said, he had no doubt the men on the preventive service behaved with moderation. It was the system he complained of. If, instead of prohibiting those goods which formed the objects of smuggling, the principles of free trade were admitted, and moderate duties imposed, this evil would be put an end to. As to Ireland, no place in the world, with the exception of La Vendee during the revolution, had been treated as the North of Ireland had been under the distillation laws. He could not consent to extend to that country the other detestable securities against smuggling with which this country was cursed.Mr. Bennet
 said, that if, after all the expence of Martello towers and preventive service, smuggling was not repressed, it must be done by other means than violence.Mr. F. Palmer
 agreed as to the expediency of taking away many of the restrictions on the importation of French goods, which now existed.Mr. Robinson
 could not avoid complaining of the conduct of government to general officers of a particular class. By a former regulation, an allowance was made to general officers without regiments. This allowance was now withdrawn, and thereby the public faith had been broken with those officers. At the close of the war it was determined that only a certain number of general officers should be kept up: and those who were reduced had only a claim to the half-pay of that rank which they had held in the army before their promotion as general officers. This, he conceived, was a great injustice to very many meritorious general officers, some of whom had spent 30 years in the service. Many general officers, who, before the termination of the war, and before their promotion, might have made a considerable sum by the sale of their commissions, were now living upon their half pay as majors. This he considered as not just treatment to so deserving a class of men. Major-generals were deprived of all pay, except the half-pay which they had before they had been promoted.Sir R. Fergusson
 said, there was always an ingenious excuse offered for any increase of public expense. The noble lord had argued, that large patronage justified large salary; but if this were correct, the commander-in-chief ought to have had three times his present salary during the war. He confessed that he looked at the situation of the country with dismay; especially as he saw no disposition on the part of the House to economize. The salaries had been raised on account of the unfavourable change in the currency, and as that currency had now arrived at a more favourable state, those salaries ought to be proportionably reduced.Mr. Sykes
l. said, he should not have blamed the Bank if they had only increased their issues to an amount sufficient to replace the gold coin that had been removed from the country; but they had extended their issues far beyond what was necessary for that purpose, and to this increase of circulation he ascribed all the depreciation which had followed.l.Mr. Ricardo
l. observed, that if he understood the right hon. gentleman, he stated that the Bank were now bound by law to exchange large for small notes or the current coin of the realm. If this were so, then certainly the clause he proposed was unnecessary. He did not wish to press the clause against the consent of the right hon. gentleman; but if he withdrew it, it was on a distinct understanding that the Bank were now compelled by law, to give either 1l.Mr. Ellice
 wished to draw the attention of the chancellor of the exchequer to one provision, which appeared to have escaped his observation; but which a number of persons who were very much interested in the effects of this bill considered of great importance. By the law as it now stood, the Bank was not compelled to give small notes in exchange for large ones. Now, as some inconvenience might arise to the public, in consequence of the alteration proposed by this bill, and as country banks might be placed in a certain degree of difficulty, if they could not procure small notes to meet any casual run upon them, under peculiar circumstances, he thought a clause might be added, as a rider to the bill, compelling the Bank to give, in exchange for their larger notes, either legal gold coin of the realm, or bank of England one-pound notes.Mr. Ellice
 observed, that the reason stated by the hon. gentleman for preserving the office, was precisely the reason why he would wish to abolish it, namely, that it was an old Scotch office.Mr. Ellice
 was confident that if the clause proposed were not enacted, great mischief would be the consequence. He could assure the House that the subject was one on which the country bankers felt much anxiety. It would inspire them with great confidence, if the clause were added to the bill.Mr. Littleton
 said, that such an argument, if it were good for any thing, was equally applicable to the stockholder and public annuitant—a doctrine which was too absurd to require refutation.Mr. Goulburn
 bore testimony to the severe duties of the military secretary to the commander-in-chief. The present holder of that important office had been there so early as the year 1793; and surely the same principle of remuneration which prevailed in every other public office, might reasonably be applied to the office of the commander-in-chief. When the duke of York was first appointed commander-in-chief, his salary and allowances were lower, than at present, because his own rank was then lower. When the duke of Wellington was made field-marshal he had insisted upon his full pay for the situation as well as for his rank.General Gascoyne
 suggested the expediency of a review, by government, of the situation of all the clerks of all the public departments, with a view of making every possible reduction.Mr. Abercromby
 contended, that the time had arrived when every possible reduction ought to be effected.Mr. Monck
l.l.207 begged to call to the recollection of the House, what had been the extent of the great forbearance of the Bank of winch so much had been said.
l.l.207Mr. Monck
 observed, that there seemed to be but one opinion with regard to the propriety of passing this bill. He really did not see any reason for the alarm that was represented to have taken possession of the country banks. The Bank of England had alway been solicitous to consult the interest and convenience of the public, and to afford all the accommodation in their power. In confirmation of this, he might allude to the respectable authority of the late Mr. Horner in 1810. Here the hon. director read an extract from the bullion report. The Bank had, in the judgment of the committee, exercised a very great degree of forbearance and discretion, in not converting to their own profit the means placed at their disposal, and had fully justified the confidence reposed in them by the public. He was not aware that any thing had subsequently occurred which ought to change this opinion of their conduct.Mr. Pearse
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l. said, he rose to move a reduction of 2000l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 wished to know whether if 2000 men were about to be sent to a foreign station, the noble lord would think it necessary to appoint a deputy judge advocate to attend them. If not, he did not see how he could defend the appointment for the same number in Scotland.Mr. Hume
 expressed his concurrence in what had fallen from the worthy alderman. The commander-in-chief should begin the reduction, and not the minor clerks.Mr. Hume
 thought, that any field officer might discharge the duty of a judge advocate.Mr. O'Grady
215l.l.l. observed, that as on a former evening he had said he should like to see one of those clerks who had 1,400215l.l.l.Mr. Creevey
 contended, that the office was an ancient Scotch office.Mr. W. Dundas
 said, that if the system of the gentlemen opposite were acted upon, instead of producing regularity and uniformity it would produce the utmost confusion. He was confident that by adopting the wild theories laid down, the whole affairs of the country would be thrown into disorder.Mr. Huskisson
 observed, that when in 1804 Mr. Pitt proposed an increase of salaries to various public officers, it was on the ground of the depreciation of the currency. That depreciation no longer existing, the salaries ought to be reduced to their original amount.Sir H. Parnell
 said, before the late bill passed, the Bank were precluded from paying in cash at all. A new discretion would be given to them by the present bill; but there was no law that he knew of, which rendered it imperative on them to pay their large notes in small ones.Mr. Scarlett
 could not consent to give the same salaries now as in former years. The situation of the country was much altered from what it had been, when those salaries were granted. It behoved parliament to look into the different statutes by which increased allowances had been made to the royal family, the salaries of the judges, and so on; and into all the other acts passed at a time when the state of the currency and the rise of prices made such previsions necessary. He called upon the landed gentlemen not to lose sight of this important duty. They could not collect their rents; the farmer could not dispose of his produce; and almost every class had to deplore the same overwhelming depreciation. He saw no reason why persons in public offices, and annuitants upon the public, should be alone exempted from any decrease of means or fluctuation of property.Lord Milton
 said, that the judge advocate had been called upon to attend six courts-martial last year.Lord Palmerston
 said, it would be beneficial to the service in general if such appointments were made, although in pursuance of that system of economy which had been adopted in the military departments, many foreign deputy judge advocates general had been reduced.Lord Palmerston
 said, that so far from the duke of Wellington having insisted upon his full pay for his situation and his rank, that arrangement was made without my previous communication with his grace.Lord Palmerston
l.l.l.l.l.,l.210 said, that in the refer-
l.l.l.l.l.,l.210Lord Palmerston
 said, that the argument of the hon. member was not correct. The charge for this establishment was not of a fixed nature, but varied according to circumstances. The estimates were always made out with a view to the necessity of the current year.Lord Palmerston
271 said, that the principles maintained by the hon. gentleman were contrary to the whole system of our commercial policy, and if adopted would prove destructive, both of our shipping interests, and our manufactures. He now alluded particularly to that principle of buying every commodity in the nearest and cheapest market. The hon. gentleman had remarked that the effect of this measure would be to make us purchase an inferior article. But the representation was not quite accurate. The purchaser was under no compulsion: he might, if he chose to go to the additional expense, buy the article for which he had a predilection; and this was pretty much the state of things in every other department of commerce. To show the nature and tendency of monopoly in trade, reference had been made to the historical fact of the Dutch burning their spices in the East Indies; and perhaps, if the whole of our commercial marine belonged to one individual or corporate body, the charge for freight might be greatly augmented by the destruction of a part of our shipping. But this was fortunately not the case; and as, if an army were on the point of being decimated, few would be found to volunteer as objects of that decimation, so in the multitude of ship-owners he doubted whether there was one willing to destroy his own vessels for the sake of enabling others to procure better freight. Much had been said with regard to the preference manifested towards Russia over Norway, but the truth was, that Norway was very much favoured by the bill. If he saw any chance of carrying an amendment in the committee, he would support the motion of the learned gentleman, for the purpose of suggesting one directly opposite to that which the learned gentleman had in view. As he did not, however, apprehend that he should succeed in the attempt, he thought it as well to abstain from making it, and that the
271Mr. Marryat
273l. remarked, that the interests of the ship-owners were directly opposed to those of the public, and whilst the former were engaged in adjusting or reconciling particular interests, it was not surprising that the consumer should be entirely overlooked. A few sound principles had been embodied in this report, apparently as a foil to the bad practice which it concluded with recommending. If the latter were now adopted, and a revision should be proposed three or four years hence, after a greater portion of capital was engaged and a greater number of interests should have become dependent on it, the answer would be, that a full opportunity had been afforded for consideration, and that, although country gentlemen had neglected their duty and left the question to be decided by merchants interested in it, it was too late to unsettle what had been then established. But he would put it to the House, whether it was right at any time, and more especially at a time like the present, to tax the community to the amount of 400,000273l.Mr. Bennet
 said, that if the House went on disregarding the petitions of the people, and voting such estimates as those now before it, such a House would no longer be a blessing but a curse to the country.Mr. Bennet
l. said, that the medical expense of the army was greater now than in the time of war; and moved an amendment for reducing 5,000l.Colonel Davies
 called the attention of the committee to the ninth report of the military inquiry, wherein they recommended, that the patent place of apothecary-general, held by Mr. Garnier, should be discontinued, and the medicines for the army purchased at Apothecaries Hall. He expected some explanation on that subject as well as the botanical garden.Sir R. Fergusson
 said, he was not prepared, in the seventh year of peace, to vote for such an increase beyond the estimate of last year, unless a sufficient reason for employing these volunteers were shown.Mr. Bernal
 asked, why the yeomanry cavalry was tripled within the last year in the county of Bedford? Was it to afford gratification to the personal vanity of some men, who would be pleased at seeing themselves in red clothes? or was it to increase the number of dependants on government?Mr. F. Palmer
 said, it was impossible for any member of the administration to be silent when they heard acts of treason in Scotland charged as the act of his majesty's government. The hon. member had brought forward a charge for which there was not the slightest foundation. It was a gross calumny. It was too much, at the same time, for any reasonable person to credit. The members of government knew nothing of that man Franklin. The hon. member should abstain from making charges unless he could support them by proof.Mr. Bathurst
277 observed, that all that the hon. gentleman had said amounted to mere suspicion: no charge of any thing
277Mr. Bathurst
 said that Oliver was employed by government to ascertain the designs of the disaffected, and not to foment them.Mr. Bathurst
 said, he could vouch that the placard in question was written, printed, and published at Glasgow.The Lord Advocate
 was much surprised at the course of argument adopted upon this question. Norway was said to be benefitted by the new arrangement, merely because she had before suffered a still greater injustice than it was now proposed to inflict upon her. The proposition made by his learned friend went only to place Russia and Norway, as respected the importation of their timber and deals, on the same footing; yet this had been described by the right hon. gentleman, as giving a monopoly to Norway; and it had been contended that such a regulation would cause a proportionate rise in the price of Norwegian timber. Now, a slight degree of attention must convince every one, that the higher the price of Norwegian timber rose, the more able must Russia be to compete effectually with Norway. It was contended, that the interest of the producer ought to be looked to, as well as that of the consumer, in legislative principles. But the fact was, that in attending to the interest of the consumer, protection was ac the same time extended to all other classes. The true way of encouraging production was to discover and open facilities to consumption. An hon. gentleman had observed, that timber of a superior quality might be had by those who chose to pay a higher price, and that there was therefore no compulsion on the purchaser. But it was a little too much to raise the price of the best article by means of import duties, and then tell the consumer that he was not obliged to buy the cheap and inferior one. The practical effect of these duties was to raise as much compulsion as could be introduced into commercial affairs.Mr. Ricardo
 rose amidst repeated calls of Chair! Chair! and several other members presented themselves at the same time. The Chairman intreated the Committee to apply themselves rather to allay the inflammation which had arisen from misunderstanding, than to excite it by any violence of their own.Mr. F. Robinson
 declared that such was his motive in presenting himself, He was sure there was a misunderstanding as to certain expressions, which a moment of reflection would be sufficient to explain.Mr. F. Robinson
 expressed himself to the same effect; and added his conviction that his learned friend would cease to feel the expressions as he had naturally felt them, when they came to be properly explained.Mr. Tierney
 was sure the explanation would be considered sufficient; for if the right hon. gentleman was not aware of having made use of the expressions, he could not have intended to apply them offensively.Mr. Tierney
 said, that no person could be more unwilling than he was to take up expressions captiously which had fallen in the heat of debate. He had no right to recur to those expressions after the explanation of the right hon. gentleman, and therefore he should only say that he was not a man who was capable of insinuating what he would not state in distinct terms.Mr. Brougham
 said, that as the committee had listened to the scandalous charges which the right hon. gentleman had dared to bring against him, he was sure they would permit him to reply.Mr. Brougham
278 denied that the hon. member for Aberdeen had made such a ridiculous charge against the government, as that of sending down placards with a view to spread disaffection in the manufacturing districts. His charge was, that they employed spies clumsily and incautiously, and with an anxiety for information, and that those spies did engage in the promotion of treasonable practices. He would admit that the connexion of Franklin with the government was not proved; but it led to violent suspicion when coupled with those of Oliver and Edwards, both of whom were connected with government. He did not say that government employed them to do as they had done, but that they shewed such an over anxiety for information as suggested to these persons the expediency of making work for themselves where they did
278Mr. Brougham
 asked, why the peaceful vallies of Westmoreland were disturbed by the clang of arms? Was it to give the government the means of indulging their favourites with red coats and horses?Mr. Brougham
 said, he could produce the names of the persons who wrote and the printers who printed the placard in question. He therefore thought the insinuation was most unfounded, and the House was never more abused than by the charge brought against the government.Mr. Monteith
 said, that as far as he was informed, the commercial interest generally approved of, and was satisfied with, the new arrangement. He thought it extremely unfair to describe the shipowners as a class of men favoured and enriched at the expense of the community. A good deal had been said on the subject of competition between Russia and Norway, but any preference shown to the latter would operate not so much to the loss or detriment of Russia, as to the injury of our own revenue. Nine-tenths of the importations from Norway were in the shipping of that country, whilst the trade with Russia was carried on chiefly in our own. He must oppose the amendment, because he was satisfied that it would prove ineffectual.Mr. Gladstone
 said, that the lord advocate was never supposed to have any connexion whatever with this placard; but it did appear to him, and to all whom he had conversed with on the subject, that that placard was neither written nor printed in Scotland.Mr. J. P. Grant
265s.s.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.l. said, that it was his intention to move as an amendment that the question should again be referred to a committee. The learned member proceeded to argue, that the duties contemplated by the bill, went to impose a tax of 600,000265s.s.s.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. J. P. Grant
 recapitulated the facts respecting the apprehension of Franklin, his liberation by the magistrates of Bow-street, and the refusal of the Home-office to issue a reward for his apprehension until eight days had elapsed, which gave him time to escape. He appealed to every man of common sense for the rational conclusion which such facts warranted, and asked if it was possible that lord Sidmouth's office should be unacquainted with Franklin, and his treasonable designs.Mr. Hume
l. proposed, as an amendment, that the vote should be reduced to 7,000l.Mr. Hume
l.l.l. asked, why the increase of the volunteers was so great since 1816? What was the consequence to the finance of the country? There had been 29,000 men, whose horses were not charged, and thereby the revenue was deprived of 90,000l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 attributed all the disturbances which had taken place in Scotland to the malpractices of the emissaries of ministers, particularly the man Franklin, who was employed by parties connected with the government. The placard which, had caused the people at Glasgow to rise was written in London, and carried down to Scotland. Had they not seen that man protected at Bow-street by the magistrates, and permitted to escape? What other conclusion could be drawn, but that this individual, to whom so many hundred pounds had been advanced, was in connexion with the government? He (Mr. Hume) had been made acquainted within this day or two with another most flagrant instance of the employment of these emissaries, which he should shortly expose to the public.Mr. Hume
 was surprised to hear that the reduction was so little as 15 per cent, when there was a fall in the price of all drugs of 50 per cent. He enumerated several items which required examination.Mr. Hume
l.s.269l.l.l.268l.l.l.l.l.l.l.s.l.267l.d.s.l.s.d.s.l.s.l.s.l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.l.l.pro tanto,l.l.266 said, he was glad of the opportunity of obviating a few of the objections to his proposition which had before been stated in the House, and had that night been reiterated by the hon. gentleman, who had prefaced his amendment by an outline of certain measures expedient to be adopted, but in the propriety of which he could not concur. When he had himself first brought a measure forward visibly affecting the interests of the colonies, he had naturally anticipated a great deal of opposition. As he expected, it had proceeded principally from quarters connected with those colonies; but he would candidly avow that he had not anticipated so extensive, so detailed an opposition as he had experienced. He had rather startled at the proposition which had been just insisted on by the hon. gentleman, that there was nothing in this subject which he had particularly to attend to but the interests of the British consumers. He differed greatly on this point from the hon. gentleman. He thought that he was justified in taking a much more enlarged and important range, and such a one as the magnitude of the subject seemed to him to require. As to the report of the committee on foreign trade in the other House, he was disposed to admit the general correctness of the principle there laid down, and quoted by the hon. gentleman; bat he was yet to learn that his own proposition was incompatible with that general principle. As to the various hypotheses which had been so often discussed, as arising out of this subject, a question might hereafter arise (although he sincerely hoped it never would), upon the employment of foreign bottoms in preference to English ones, on account of the cheaper freight payable to the foreigner; but surely it was not necessary for him to enter by anticipation, upon the merits of so difficult and so ungrateful a matter. And the same might be observed of an almost infinite variety of other propositions; which, although they might naturally enough present themselves in the course of the argument, he could scarcely be required to go into, unless they bore immediately upon the
l.s.269l.l.l.268l.l.l.l.l.l.l.s.l.267l.d.s.l.s.d.s.l.s.l.s.l.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.l.l.pro tanto,l.l.266Mr. Wallace
 thought an intermediate scale of duties might have been adopted, so as to arrange the matter more equitably between the Baltic powers. It was most desirable that a competition should be established in all branches of the timber trade. One great objection to the proposed regulation was, that it would not come into operation for near two years. In a further stage of the bill, he should propose what he imagined would prove a more equitable principle.Mr. Keith Douglas
270 said, he was inclined to vote for the amendment. All persons must admit that the shipping interest was one of the most important branches of our commercial prosperity; but it might still be a question whether it was wise to encourage it by sending ships ten times as far as was necessary for particular commodities. Could it be politic, or was it rational, to send to America, for what we might obtain at a lower price, and of a better quality, from the mouth of the Elbe? In fact, this was just as absurd, as it would be to send to the East Indies for the sugar which we could get from the West. It appeared to him to be altogether a mistaken view of policy, to aim at the advancement of our colonial interests, by purchasing from the colonies articles inferior to those which might be had nearer home. The whole capital vested in saw-mills and machinery was said to be very small in this country. But why was it so? Was it not because we had thought proper to encourage the importation of deals from Russia? As to what bad been said of the consumption he must observe, that every body was in some degree a consumer of timber. By equalizing the duties on such foreign timber as we imported, we should only
270Mr. W. Smith
 asserted, that Mr. Garnier had in some cases charged 40 per cent more than the fair price of the drugs. He thought that a very considerable reduction might be made in the estimate, and that some postponement was necessary.Mr. W. Smith
 said, that the present system was excessively expensive, and that in many branches the offices on the Irish establishment were sinecures.Sir H. Parnell
 entered into a defence of the administration, against the insinuations of the learned gentleman. If he intended to insinuate that they had employed such an infamous wretch as Franklin to act as he was accused of having acted, the insinuation was base, false, and foul. It was disingenuous in any man to say that he did not suspect the government, and yet endeavour to lead the country into a belief that he did. Such conduct was not candid or manly.Mr. Wellesley Pole
 said, he should be sorry to utter any thing in the warmth of debate which could hurt the feelings of any hon. member, and if he had done so he was not aware of it.Mr. W. Pole
 conceived that ministers had set out on a wrong system, and had adopted measures, which, if persevered in, would render rebellion a duty. [Hear, hear.] Rebellion might not be an approved term—he would say resistance then.Sir Robert Wilson
 asked, why there bad been a corps raised in the peaceable town of Southampton?Sir W. De Crespigny
 trusted the House would not forget how much was due to the interests of its colonial trade in any future arrangement.Sir W. De Crespigny
 alluded to the part which Oliver had taken in stirring up the people to seditious acts, and asked, whether instructions had not been sent to the magistrates of the West Riding of Yorkshire not to apprehend him? This connection between the secretary of state and Oliver gave colour to other charges of a similar nature.Lord Milton
276 said, it was easy for members to talk of the seventh year of peace, but they should recollect that this was only in fact the first year of domestic peace. They should recollect that a part of this volunteer force was but lately engaged in active operations against bodies of their countrymen leagued against the tranquillity and the laws of the country. It was too much for the government to
276Lord Palmerston
 acknowledged that the higher order of these officers was not liable to serve abroad. He shortly hoped to introduce a further economical arrangement in this department, by consolidating the medical staff of Ireland with that of England.Lord Palmerston
 said, that the office of supplying the army with medicines had been held by Mr. Garnier up to his death. Two years ago Mr. Clarke who was deputy to Mr. Garnier was employed by government to buy medicines. He did buy the medicines from the merchants, from whom the Apothecaries' company bought them. He produced the medicines and his bills to the medical board, and the consequence was, that the Apothecaries' Hall lowered their prices to the public 15 per cent. Mr. Clarke was a most respectable and upright man.Lord Palmerston
 said, that no strain of inflammatory invective should prevent him from doing his best to reduce the military establishment, whenever such a reduction could be safely effected.Lord Palmerston
 remarked, that individuals were always liable to indisposition. He had felt it necessary to make the observations which he had made in justice to the character of a distinguished individual now no more.The Lord Advocate
"And court him as top-fiddle of the town."Him, thus exalted, for a wit we own,426"Wit that can creep, and pride that licks the dust"—"Beauty that shocks you, parts that none can trust,425***424423422secundum consuetudinem parliamenti,421420419ben trovatovade mecum418suchsuch417bona fide416415414413412resiantbona fide411liberi tenentes,liber homo410409quas vulgus elegerit,"408annual,407new406405***404403**few*402401At Greenland, Zembla, or the Lord knows where."In Scotland, at the Orcades—and there"Ask where's the north—at York, 'tis on the Tweed;posse,esse400l.l.l.399l.,l.l.398***397396 said — Mr. Speaker; If, Sir, my friend, the hon. mover, thought it necessary to make an excuse to this House for the details into which he judged it necessary for him to enter, how much the more must I feel an apology requisite for a person who has not his experience in parliament, and who has besides, on this occasion, the disadvantage of following his very able exposition of the great question now before us. I trust, however, that the House will have the goodness to recollect, that there are some members amongst them whose constituents sent them here principally to advocate the cause of parliamentary reform; and who, however unwilling or incompetent they may be, must therefore, upon these occasions, trespass on the attention of the House. Standing as I do in this predicament, I shall venture to enter somewhat at detail into the examination of the momentous subject now under discussion."And court him as top-fiddle of the town."Him, thus exalted, for a wit we own,426"Wit that can creep, and pride that licks the dust"—"Beauty that shocks you, parts that none can trust,425***424423422secundum consuetudinem parliamenti,421420419ben trovatovade mecum418suchsuch417bona fide416415414413412resiantbona fide411liberi tenentes,liber homo410409quas vulgus elegerit,"408annual,407new406405***404403**few*402401At Greenland, Zembla, or the Lord knows where."In Scotland, at the Orcades—and there"Ask where's the north—at York, 'tis on the Tweed;posse,esse400l.l.l.399l.,l.l.398***397396Mr. Hobhouse
 intreated the House to enter into a dispassionate investigation of the state of the representation, and assured them that, if they did so, conciliation would take place between themselves and the people; but that, if they did not, a tremendous convulsion would ensue, of which no man could anticipate the consequences.Mr. Fyshe Palmer
436notnotnotnotnot435434 stated, that the importance of the present question demanded the serious attention of every member of the House, and he trusted that would be his apology for offering his sentiments in support of the present motion. It had been for some time broadly stated, that the representation of the people required reform, and it would be but an idle waste of the time of the House to enumerate
436notnotnotnotnot435434Lord Bury
, of Galway, complimented the hon. mover on the moderation he had shown; at the same time, he could not support his proposition. The class of resident householders proposed by the hon. member was objectionable as voters. Reform might be carried to an extent that would be not only dangerous, but criminal. During the French revolution, one of the members of the convention told the assembly that they had destroyed the aristocracy of the nobles, the aristocracy of tradesmen and shop-keepers, but still they had another class more dangerous to destroy, namely the aristocracy of talent and genius.—Danton was the monster who made such a proposition. It was an instance, proving that the spirit of reform might lead, if followed, to the most extravagant actions. Besides, scarcely any two persons were agreed as to the precise plan that should be adopted. He would pledge himself that if all the gentlemen on the government side of the House would make their obeisance to the Chair and withdraw, and leave the question to be decided by the gentlemen opposite, the motion would be negatived by the hon. members opposite by an immense majority.Mr. Martin
, in explanation, said, that, the learned lord seemed to have understood him as using the fact of the absence of the baron of the exchequer, as an "argumentum ad hominem:" but it was with quite a contrary intention. All that he meant to say was, that, judging from the absence of this gentleman for two or three years (a term which the leaarned lord had corrected, by substituting one year in its place), it appeared that four barons were sufficient for the business of the court.Lord A. Hamilton
427 said, it was not desirable that this House should be a representation of the people in the sense required by the hon. member who had spoken last; The opinions of the people, though trustworthy guides from age to age, were not to be safely followed from month to month; and it was better, in most cases, for the House to be a little behind public opinion, than a little before it. It was a mistake, however, to suppose, as some appeared to do on the authority of the petition presented by lord Grey in 1793, that 157 individuals returned a majority of the House. Among those 157 were reckoned rather unfairly, not only the proprietors of close boroughs, but all men whose property or whose character gave them a leading power in popular elections: beside which error, it was also to be remembered, that 100 Irish members had, since that petition, been introduced by the Union, of whom at least 80 were returned upon popular principles. Nor was the body returned by individual patrons, a united body, pulling together against the people; but a body split into parties; parties, which, in spite of the objection to the principle of party, must always exist, while mankind should continue to differ upon great political measures. The lateness of the hour would withhold him from entering at large into the details of the subject; but he could not help observing upon the misapprehension which seemed to exist as to the probable effect of triennial parliaments. For reasons of caution, not less beneficial to the people than to the Crown, parliament
427Mr. Horace Twiss
432431430 said, that as he had
432431430Mr. Abercromby
433 said, he gave the highest credit to the lion, member for the county of Durham for the motives which had led him to bring this question before parliament. That hon. member had introduced it with a gentlemanly temper and feeling, to which even those who could not give him their votes were compelled to give their admiration. Though he agreed with that hon. member in thinking that many gentlemen were returned to that House by the power and under the influence of other persons; and though he believed that there was a strong and general feeling in the country that some reform was necessary in the Constitution of it, he would still contend that the House, even as constituted at present, was the only assembly for successfully carrying on the business of the nation. In arguing that point, he must beg leave to inform hon. members, that when they called upon him to look back to distant times for the constitution, he should not look back to the reigns of the Henries, but to those periods in our history in which the great struggles for liberty took place between the sovereign and the people. At those periods he would contend that the rotten boroughs were exactly in the same state of decay as they were at present. He would take Corfe-castle and Old Sarum as his instances, and would challenge the hon. members to point out any time at which they were not under the same species of domination as now existed. They knew both when and how the right of representation had been bestowed on those boroughs, and that knowledge was sufficient to prove the correctness of his assertion. He likewise agreed with the hon. member for Calne, that if the mode of election for members to serve in that House were to be made too popular, the effect of it would be to do away with the House of Lords; and that argument might be considered as of some weight in showing that the influence exercised by peers
433Mr. Stuart Wortley
369368367366365l.In patriam, populumque fluxit.Hoc fonte derivata clades,364363l.l.no362361***360*** rose, and addressed the House as follows:369368367366365l.In patriam, populumque fluxit.Hoc fonte derivata clades,364363l.l.no362361***360**Mr. Lambton
386 began by saying, that he was perfectly convinced that a reform in the Commons House of Parliament was essential to the existence of the rights and even the property of the people of these kingdoms. He had given this important subject his most full and earnest consideration; and he hoped that the House would give him credit, in rising as he did to second a motion which had been so ably stated and illustrated by the eloquence of his hon. friend for a desire only to perform that which he Conceived to be an imperative duty to his constituents. He spoke the opinion of his constituents when he said, that, as the House was at present constituted, it was nearly the reverse of what it was intended to be by the theory of the constitution. It was too notorious a fact to be denied, that a great number obtained their seats in violation of the principle of election, and in contempt of the standing orders of that House. The hon. gentleman then remarked, that without the least disposition, on a topic of such vital interest to the country, to manifest any thing like unbecoming levity, he hoped he might be permitted to make one remark which forcibly suggested itself to him. With respect to the tenacious regard for its forms and its character which that House always manifested whenever its character was called in question. The existence of rotten boroughs was notorious; the existence of corruption in the returns made of members to serve in parliament was acknowledged; the charge of selling seats in that House had been gravely laid against, and openly admitted by noble and hon. members, and yet it was not orderly to speak of these practices in plain terms, as they deserved. Really, it appeared to him, after this, that the House was much in the situation of a woman of bad charac-
386Mr. S. Whitbread
 said, that although he was convinced of the necessity of a reform in parliament, yet he was not prepared to go the length of his hon. friend's proposition.Mr. Honywood
439 said, that from his, earliest days he had given his support to parliamentary reform, convinced as he was that nothing but reform could secure the constitution from ruin. He was desirous of tearing from the British constitution all its imperfections. He was ready to admit that parliament did much good. Indeed, the proceedings of 600 gentlemen of talent and education when reported, must do much good when circulated over the country; but the question wag, did they do enough? He was persuaded that parliament would continue under a stigma, until some regulation was adopted with respect to small boroughs, which had been found a powerful and dangerous instrument in the hands of ministers. He held in his hand an account of various divisions that had taken
439Mr. W. Williams
395394Choose Rich Men;393"And ease the neck that courts the yoke.""The spirit to its bondage broke,"In vain may Liberty invoke,s.392l.l.legally391too longnewCommons;the scale390389Nullus liber homoinevitable388went entirely387 spoke as follows:—If, Sir, the hon. mover has thought it necessary to offer apologies to the House for the execution of the task which he has undertaken to perform, how much more incumbent is it upon me to press such apologies, and even to throw myself upon the mercy of those from whom I am compelled to differ upon this important question; for I perceive that the benches around me are nearly deserted, while the hon. gentleman is surrounded by a great proportion of his political friends; however, I cannot allow that this thin attendance is owing to any feelings of disrespect towards the hon. member, But to the interest excited by another more vital question in another place, the success of which I trust is far less problematical than that of the measure which we have just heard proposed. I will not stop to compliment the hon. gentleman upon the talents which he has just evinced; he will receive such compliments from others whose praise he will be more disposed to value. He says, that he shall be opposed by the misrepresentations of some, the sophistry of others, and the fears of many. He will not receive any misrepresentation intentional, at least from me; he has nothing to dread from any sophistries of mine, and as for fears, I cannot allow myself to feel the slightest, that this House will consent to a measure so dangerous, so unavailing, and so subversive of the real and tried constitution of this great country.395394Choose Rich Men;393"And ease the neck that courts the yoke.""The spirit to its bondage broke,"In vain may Liberty invoke,s.392l.l.legally391too longnewCommons;the scale390389Nullus liber homoinevitable388went entirely387Mr. Wilmot
429428 said, he rose to support the motion of his hon. friend from his conviction of its necessity and propriety and in compliance with the wishes of 2,000 of his constituents. Before he proceeded to state his reasons for voting for the motion, he begged, in the name of the friends of reform, to offer his acknowledgments to his hon. friend who had brought it forward, not for the talent he had displayed in support of the motion—for that was the natural fruit of his genius and application—but for the industry he had bestowed on the subject. The opinions and views of the great body of the reformers were now embodied. It would now be seen whether the reformers could show, not poison, but balm, for a sickening state. Even the enemies of reform admitted that the reformers were theoretically right in demanding a free, full, and fair representation. He could say, from his intercourse with the people this country, that if reform were a mere theory, it would not have interested them. Many might contend for the victory of truth over fallacy; because fallacy must prove remotely pernicious; but the people would not take a deep interest in abstract theory. In other countries
429428Sir Robert Wilson
And stand unshaken."Should the approach of this wild river break,As doth a rock against the chiding flood,Appear in forms more horrid—yet my duty,Abound as thick as thought could make them, and—Though perils did385384383275.*275.**382381l380s.379378377tobona fide376**all*375equally concerned with themliable to all payments, rates, and subsidies,remedy to restore quietness, rest and peacecivil and politick maintenance and governancelosses and damages374373372resident,residentpossessing property, however small its value, from which they contributed to taxation,s.s.shall very likely rise and behavewhereof every of them pretended a voice371370 contended, that the House were justified in entertaining a distrust of his majesty's ministers upon this subject. Three cabinet ministers had voted in the first instance against the institution of a commission; but such a distrust, was further reasonable, because his majesty's ministers had done every thing in their power, first to delay, and afterwards to frustrate the objects of that commission. After the address which was voted had been carried to the foot of the throne, seven months elapsed before any thing was done in the business. At last the commission was appointed; but the learned lord had said that commission had travelled out of its jurisdiction in meddling at all with the constitution of the court, as regarded the judges. Now
And stand unshaken."Should the approach of this wild river break,As doth a rock against the chiding flood,Appear in forms more horrid—yet my duty,Abound as thick as thought could make them, and—Though perils did385384383275.*275.**382381l380s.379378377tobona fide376**all*375equally concerned with themliable to all payments, rates, and subsidies,remedy to restore quietness, rest and peacecivil and politick maintenance and governancelosses and damages374373372resident,residentpossessing property, however small its value, from which they contributed to taxation,s.s.shall very likely rise and behavewhereof every of them pretended a voice371370Sir John Newport
438437 confessed that he had always approached this subject with considerable alarm; not that he thought it to be of itself attended with danger, but that he conceived the theories of some of those who pretended to discuss it likely to produce a complete and radical change in the country. Indeed, it had appeared to him, upon all former occasions, that the House of Commons did virtually represent the people; and, entertaining that Opinion, he could not conceive how those who called for reform could maintain the attack, which in so doing they made upon the ancient constitution of parliament. On those occasions he had looked with the warmest enthusiasm upon the constitution, and had imagined that upon every point it worked well for the community. A better acquaintance with the practices of parliament—a closer investigation of some of its leading peculiarities, and perhaps a
438437Lord Milton
 said, that the hon. gentleman's bill must be considered as almost tantamount to a new law: it would therefore be necessary to guard against the interruption of important works, on account of a trifling inconvenience or proceedings from groundless complaints.Mr. D. Gilbert
 said, that as there were no complaints of steam-engines in Cornwall he thought it would be better to exempt that, and perhaps some other counties, from the operation of this bill. If some such limitation were not adopted the bill would probably have to encounter great opposition. Cornwall itself they all knew, might send a pretty considerable force in hostility to it.Mr. Alderman Wood
447, in giving his sanction to the motion for a committee, was anxious to guard against the supposition that be sanctioned the bill which his hon. friend had in contemplation. He had no hesitation in declaring himself to be a reformer, but one of the most moderate description; and therefore he could only approve of such a plan of reform as was moderate and temperate in its principle. It could hot be denied that there were defects in the representation; and it was natural that there should be, for it was not the result of systematic wisdom, but arose in the course of events, and adapted itself to circumstances, still carrying with it the traces of those remote ages from which it first sprung. The defects he conceived to be these—that several large towns, which, on account of their opulence, commercial importance, and populousness ought to have representatives, were at present unrepresented. In the march of time, another defect had arisen, corresponding to that, it was, that several towns, which had once a degree of opulence and consideration, ceased to possess them, and yet were represented. It was his idea that these latter places should be disfranchised, and their franchise conveyed to the others which were entitled to it. This would have the effect of conciliating the people, who were naturally irritated, from the absence of that political power which they had a right to possess. He then entered into an historical statement to show that there was of old a discretionary power in the Crown to disfranchise boroughs. No less than 68 boroughs had been disfranchised which formerly sent members to parliament, and several boroughs had claimed exemption from returning representatives. As the Crown had that discretionary power formerly of disfranchising boroughs, and exercised it in so many instances, he did not see why the entire legislature was not competent to exercise such a power, when necessary, to rectify the representative system in conformity with the spirit of the constitution. He then stated that be strongly objected to the present bill: it started upon a wrong principle, by recognising householders as competent to vote, it made property the basis of the right of voting, and if property was made the basis, the number of votes ought to be
447Captain Maberly
 would be willing to give up the present system for any better one that could be offered; but finding that it worked well, he could not consent to make the changes now proposed, without having stronger grounds for doing so than had yet been adduced.Mr. D. Brown
453452 said, that he was almost tempted on this occasion to follow the advice which had been given by his hon. friend the member for Galway, and to allow the question to be decided by the honourable members on the other side, in the full confidence that it would be negatived, for certainly no two members on that side seemed to be of the same opinion with regard to the plan which had been detailed by the hon. member for Durham. Much, however, as he disapproved of the plan of the hon. member—although he wished to pay his full tribute to the temper and moderation with which the hon. gentleman had brought the subject forward—he thought it much better, if the House must enter on the subject at all, to enter upon it with a reference to that plan, rather than to accede to the vague, general, and indecisive recommendation to go into a committee to examine the state of the representation, without having any particular proposition whatever before them. Such a step would be to condemn the existing order of things, without being put in possession of any definite measure by which it was proposed to amend it. If they went upon some distinct plan, it might be judged of by comparison; but in the committee the hon. member intended only a general resolution, which could bring them to no decisive pleasure. The proposed bill of the hon. mover would make a most important alteration in the nature and principle of elections, especially in relation to copyholders, leaseholders, and, in short, county representation generally. The extension of the franchise to householders would be very nearly equivalent to universal suffrage; but the general disapprobation the plan had met with, rendered it needless for him to go into its details. It had been taken for granted, that a great majority of the people were anxious for parliamentary reform. Now, he saw no evidence of such a feeling, and he did not believe that it existed. It was true that many petitions had been presented to that House, but they were all, whether proceeding from agriculturists, merchants, or manufacturers, founded on some particular and specified grievance, which no reform of parliament could
453452The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought the measure which the hon. mover had in contemplation was in every way the most objectionable that could be proposed. It was even more obnoxious than the plan of universal suffrage, seeing that it would, if agreed to, involve the complete disfranchisement of a great number of persons who had committed no crime whatever. He knew he should be told that the persons whom it was thus proposed to strip of their franchise would still enjoy the right of voting in common with others; but still it was evident that they must in a manner be lost in the great mass of persons among whom it was intended to distribute the elective franchise. Great stress had been laid on a paper circulated in the year 1792 or 1793, in which it was stated that a certain number of peers and commoners returned a majority of that House. He had made it his business to inquire into the statements contained in that paper; and though it was sanctioned by the countenance of several persons of the highest respectability, he had never seen such a tissue of mistakes in his life, as that document presented. The names of peers had been put down in that list as returning members to that House, merely because they exercised the legitimate influence of their high lineage and distinguished characters. It was absurd to say, for instance, that the duke of Devonshire returned the member for Derby, because a member of the illustrious house of Cavendish was elected the representative of that county. He trusted, that great property high character, and amiable manners, would always maintain their natural influence in that House. He did not wish to trespass upon the time, when so many hon. members were anxious to address the House, but he could not sit down without entering his solemn protest against a measure which went to deprive any man of his franchise upon mere speculative grounds.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
officina.444unâ vocecommune concilium443 observed, that he rose to discharge a duty which he owed to his constituents, rather than with the hope of throwing any new light on the subject. He felt no difficulty in saying that he was disposed to agree to the motion of his hon. friend, and should vote for going
officina.444unâ vocecommune concilium443Mr. Sykes
450 observed, that the subject of reform was the most important question which could come before that House. He was anxious, therefore, to declare his opinion with reference to it. He agreed with the hon. member for Durham, that it was quite necessary the House of Commons should truly represent the people. It was not necessary for him to have the proof of the recent votes of the House to be convinced that the people at present were not represented. From the manner in which that House was constituted, he was quite certain before of that fact. He would, therefore, embrace any plan which was likely to give the country an efficient representation, and should consequently support the measure now proposed. There was only one thing respecting it which he regretted; and here he was sure that what he was about to declare would be very unpopular in the House: he regretted that his hon. friend did not propose the introduction of voting by ballot, which he thought would be a greater security for the full and fair representation of the people than any extension of the elective franchise. The people would then vote for the man whom they should consider as best calculated to support their interest, without any fear of the overwhelming influence of their superiors. It might be said, that if this were to take place, the effect would be, that in time the people would get rid of the Lords. He denied that this would be the effect. The people would never, when left to their own free and unbiassed choice, be anxious to get rid of that which they considered the instrument of their good government; and unless gentlemen were pre-
450Mr. Ricardo
449 said, he was anxious to state the grounds of his vote thus early in the debate, because he was satisfied that nothing but the most commanding eloquence would be sufficient to arrest the attention of members at a later hour of the evening. He would not now enter into the details of the question of reform, but would give his vote for the motion, oil the ground of necessity; for, to quote the opinion which had been so frequently referred to, he was satisfied that, if reform did not take place from within the House, it would from without. Therefore, in voting for it, he thought he should be doing not only an act of justice, but also one of necessity. If he were asked what species of reform he would wish to have effected, he would say, that which gave to the people that power of which they were now deprived—an effective check over the enormous expenditure of the public money, and also a check on those coercive measures which had been carried to so great an extent by the present administration. He did not speak of one administration alone; for he would not give his support to any set of ministers who were not substantively pledged to the question of parliamentary reform. It might be said, that if the reform spoken of took place, the House of Commons would swallow up the power of the Lords and of the Crown; but that was a result which
449Mr. Harbord
 also stated, that he had not been present at the division, and that he was never more surprised than at the charge of the hon. member for Durham, of whose entrance into the House he was entirely unconscious.Mr. Dawson
456 in consequence of what had fallen from his hon. friend who had
456Mr. Brougham,
446 of Wilts, said, he would not go at any length into the question then. It was sufficient for him to know that corruption did exist in the representation; and, as far as he knew, that House ought to be the real representative of the Commons of England. The influence of the Crown by peers and other individuals, was too great in that House to allow it to be a pure representation. They were therefore bound to vote for a committee, in which the state of the representation could be considered. As to the plan proposed, many objections might be taken against it. As to the point of shortening the duration of parliament, he was not prepared to decide upon that, and say what should be the exact term of duration; but he could not see how any man who wished for the purity of parliament, could vote against going into a committee. No man, by giving his vote For that committee, pledged himself to any specific plan. If the hon. mover had not presented a bill, the charge would have been made, which had been often made before, that nothing was referred to the committee to decide upon. If the entire plan was not adopted, he hoped some parts of it would. It could not be denied, that a certain corruption did exist with respect to the return of members, and it was not the nature of corruption to stand still. But it was said, that the machine of parliament worked well—it might do so at present, but if the principle was unsound, it could not work well long. Those who supported reform, were told, that it was necessary ministers should have a certain power in that House; for if they lost a majority, they must retire from office. He could not subscribe to this doctrine; for if it was necessary that ministers should always command a majority, why were the members on his side of the House to come there and lose their time and health, in vainly endeavouring to teach ministers that the acts of public men should be subject to the control of parliament? He hoped to see the time when the House of Commons would once more represent the people, and when seats should not any longer be sold like cattle in the market. He knew that the sale of seats was arranged upon a scale of such sytematic corruption, that they brought different prices, according to the freedom of voting. But, whatever the plan for efficiently reforming the representation might be, the notori-
446Mr. Benett,
 said, that on entering the House, he had heard a laugh, and from the countenance of some hon. gentlemen who took a part in it, he was led to suppose that the laugh was directed at him. He wished that any of those hon. gentlemen would stand up, and avow that such was the case. Some of those to whom he alluded would doubtless have the manliness to do so, if they felt conscious that the imputation was well-founded.Mr. Lambton
 begged shortly to state the circumstances of the case. He had that evening retired to take some refreshment, after the discussion of the measure which he had introduced had commenced—not having taken any refreshment during the whole of the night before.—On his return to the House, he was surprised to hear from the hon. member for Middlesex, that the division had taken place. On entering the House he could not help observing that the attention of several members was directed to him in a very peculiar manner. Among others he would appeal to the hon. member for Chichester (Mr. Huskisson) and to the hon. member for Londonderry (Mr. Dawson), whether they had not particularly directed their attention towards him with a smile. He would move, "That the House do now adjourn."Mr. Lambton
 said, he bowed to the decision of the chair, and certainly would not pursue the subject further. He must, however, lament the unfortunate situation in which he had been placed, and that it should go forth to the people, that this question had been taken by surprise, and had not received that full and mature consideration to which it was entitled.Mr. Lambton
448 said, he would vote for going into the committee, as he was perfectly satisfied of the necessity of some effectual reform of that House. In this conviction he had been greatly strengthened by what had taken place in the latter end of the last, and the commencement of the present year. He could not forget the very general outcry from all parts of the country against the misconduct of ministers towards the Queen. Indeed, he could not understand what object they could have had in view, in lending themselves to that act of oppression. But he would not dwell farther on that subject, as it had passed by. On a recent occasion he had supported the motion of his noble friend (lord J. Russell) for disfranchising a corrupt borough, and transferring the franchise to the large borough of Leeds. Such a reform as that was absolutely necessary; although he considered that the main benefit of the measure had been taken away by the qualifications for voters introduced by the hon. member for Yorkshire, and which, in his opinion, left
448Mr. Ramsden
 was favourable to the general principle of the bill; but doubted the expediency of applying its provisions to the cases of engines worked in the mining districts.Mr. Tremayne
442 expressed his earnest hope, that the House would accede to the motion of the hon. member. In the present distressed state of the country, when the amount of the taxes was three times as
442Mr. Wyvill
 expressed his determination not to exclude any particular county. If the House should agree to introduce such a provision, he would abandon the bill altogether.Mr. M. A. Taylor
441certiorari,440 rose pursuant to notice, to move for leave to bring in a bill with respect to the law as it affected nuisances by smoke issuing from Steam-engines. Of the pernicious effect of such nuisances, no gentleman could be unaware. The steam-engines productive of these nuisances were not only injurious to the health and comfort but even ruinous to the property of persons who happened to be resident in their vicinity. Of the latter effect, a very distressing instance had come to his knowledge. It was that of a clergyman, who, after having erected additional buildings for the purpose of extending his school, was actually obliged to quit his premises, in consequence of a steam-engine erected in an adjoining field, the smoke from which actually rendered his house uninhabitable. If it were said that this clergyman might obtain redress by preferring an indictment he would answer, that the gentleman could not afford to pay the ex-
441certiorari,440Mr. M. A. Taylor
 did not rise to prolong the conversation, nor to take his hon. friend the member for Durham under his protection. He wished merely to observe, that other hon. members must not judge of his hon. friend's feelings upon the unexpected termination of the debate, by their own. The situation in which he Stood with regard to the measure, made it much more a matter of regret to him than to any other person. He was apprehensive that the country might be dissatisfied with the manner in which this great question had been disposed of.Mr. Whitbread
451 said, he could not consent to go into the committee; at the same time he would be at all times ready to give his vote for the redress of any specific grievance which was pointed out. Whenever any instance of corruption in any borough came before the House, he would be willing to vote for its disfranchisement. He could not concur in the principle that a member of parliament was bound by the opinion of his immediate constituents. It was his duty to consider, not so much the particular wishes of those who sent him, as the general welfare of the whole community. If members were to attend to the wishes of the people, one wish would be, that they should not pay any taxes; and he should be glad to know how the business of the country could be carried on without taxes. The effect of the proposed bill would be, that the constituents would have too much control over their representatives. He was aware that in many places at the present moment, if a member happened to differ from his constituents he ran the risk of losing his seat. This, however, was not the case in the metropolis; and he could say that in the whole course of his canvass, he had only in two instances been questioned as to what his conduct would be in parliament. He did not consider himself as by any means bound to adhere invariably to the opinions of those whom he represented. Certainly,
451Mr. T. Wilson
 denied that the smile on his countenance had any reference whatever to the entrance of the hon. member for Durham. It arose from a totally different cause; namely, a conversation which he was at that moment holding with his hon. friend, the member for Londonderry. The fact was, that he had been absent from the division as well as the hon. gentleman, and regretted it quite as much as he could do. So far from his having used any expressions of contempt towards the hon. member, he was wholly unconscious of his presence m the House, Until he had risen to make his complaint.Mr. Huskisson
455 must remind the hen. member, that he had introduced the present topic at a time when there was already a question before the House, and
455The Speaker
 said, the House must feel that its own dignity would be best consulted and most effectually secured, by taking care that no member should meet with any treatment inconsistent with the rules of order and decorum. Whether the offence was conveyed in language or by any other mode, it was the duty of the House at once to put it down. But as the hon. member himself expressed some doubt, he would submit to him, whether the circumstance was such as could be preferred as a charge, and whether it might not be fairly presumed that nothing improper was intended.The Speaker
 said, he would vote for going into the committee, although he could by no means agree to all the parts of the plan proposed by the hon. member for Durham. That some reform was necessary had been abundantly proved during the present session by the way in which the petitions of the people had been treated in that House. It was impossible, indeed, that the people could expect redress of their grievances from a House of Commons constituted as the present was.Sir G. Robinson
 supported the bill, and mentioned the instance of a steam-engine in one of the largest collieries in Northumberland, where, by the application of proper machinery, the smoke had been so reduced as to lose all its offensive power.Sir M. W. Ridley
458457 rose, to present a Petition, to which he requested the attention of the House. It was upon the same subject as that which, some days ago, he had presented, with respect to the power of a judge to fine a defendant in the course of making his defence, and which be had been urged to withdraw, because it was deemed inadmissible, in consequence of an impression that there were some words in the petition which implied an irregular allusion to the speech of a right hon. member of that House. These words were therefore omitted in the petition which he held in his hand, and which was signed by a number of the respectable inhabitants of Westminster and London. This petition did not indeed contain any thing against which the most scrupulous person could make any objection. Upon the merits of the petition or the object which it had in view, he would not then trouble the House with any observation; but seeing the hon. member for Surrey in his place, he thought it right to take that opportunity of correcting the misrepresentation to which that hon. member had called his attention with regard to the remarks imputed to him as to the conduct of the chairman of the Surrey sessions. He had never said, as was alleged, that this magistrate had sanctioned, or had been in any degree concerned in, packing juries, but that he was under a mistake as to the extent of his power to impose a fine upon any person for contempt of court. The conception therefore of the chairman was quite erroneous. The hon.
458457Mr. Hobhouse
 said, he had never imputed to the chairman any thing but a mistake as to the extent of the power which he possessed. He begged to observe, however, that he knew Mr. M'Creery, and that his claim to respectability was fully as great as that of Mr. Harrison.Mr. Hobhouse
 seconded the motion. He thought it most desirable that some arrangements of the nature proposed should be acceded to, more particularly that for assimilating the Irish currency to that of Great Britain, as it would have the effect of simplifying financial accounts. By means of it, they would get rid of all that machinery which made the exchange between the two countries so complex.Mr. Grenfell
 agreed with the hon. baronet so far, as to think that it was highly desirable that the subjects which he had mentioned should come under the consideration of the House, but to undertake a plan of the kind proposed in the present session could only excite alarm in the minds of persons concerned in the trade between the two countries, without producing any practical result. It was necessary to hear the objections to be urged against the plan, as well as the arguments in its favour. The session was now so far advanced, that no practical result could be accomplished by a committee of parliament; but he so far coincided with the object of the motion, as to think, that upon due notice given to the parties concerned, they should prepare their several statements, and on the evidence submitted, the parliament should undertake the investigation. By such preparatory inquiries, it was likely that a considerable mass of evidence would be procured, and in the next session some practical result might be obtained. He would therefore move an amendment to that effect. As to the assimilation of the currency, it was one of great importance and delicacy, and could not be undertaken without great disadvantage, at the moment of approaching cash payments of the two banks. It would have the effect of agitating the public mind, and could not take away the necessity of exchange, as it depended on the course of payments and remittances. With respect to the Union duties, he believed there was great jealousy on the subject among the manufacturers of Ireland; it would be therefore far better to postpone the measure until both parties were prepared. He concluded by moving as an amendment, "That the House will, early in the next session, take into consideration the duties and regulations affecting the trade between Great Britain and Ireland."The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought that the trade between England and Ireland ought to be as free and as open as that between Yorkshire and Lancashire; and that these obstructions ought to be abolished as soon as possible.Mr. Philips
 contended, that, after passing the act of last year, it would be unjust to make any alteration with regard to the protecting duties. Many persons had entered into engagements upon the ground that those duties were to be continued for the period provided by the act, and a departure from that regulation would be of the most serious consequence to them.Mr. Hutchinson
 said, it was of the utmost importance that the duties on fuel and machinery imported into Ireland should be removed without delay. He wished to know what were the intentions of the right hon. gentleman upon that subject. He was convinced that much of the distress in Ireland was caused by the operation of those duties.Mr. Chichester
 said, that the act passed last year provided for the gradual extinction of those duties, and that the subject might again be investigated by the committee.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that all courts of record, from the highest to the lowest, had the power both of fining and imprisoning for contempt, and he believed that was the first time the power was ever doubted.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
464 was glad that the difference
464Mr. Dawson
 was of opinion, that the subject required immediate consideration. He should therefore vote for the original motion.General Hart
 said, he thought he could not better vindicate the conduct of the chairman of the quarter sessions, than by reading to the House the statement which that gentleman had drawn up, in consequence of the observations which had fallen from the hon. member for Westminster, on a former night. Mr. Harrison admitted, that he told Mr. M'Creery, that if he pursued the line of observations which he was addressing to the Court, he would render himself unfit to serve on any jury, and that if he did not sit down, he would fine him. When Mr. M'Creery afterwards called upon him to explain these expressions, the chairman told him, that in his opinion, he did not possess that temper which was requisite for the proper discharge of a juryman's functions; upon which Mr. M'Creery rudely retorted, that Mr. Harrison stood precisely in the same situation. The hon. member panegyrised the conduct of the chairman, and observed that the county of Surrey was under great obligations to him for his services.Mr. Sumner
 thought the House ought to be satisfied with the assurance that early in the next session this subject would be amply discussed. The corn of Ireland was admitted into this country on liberal terms; and in the same way the consumer of English produce in Ireland should receive his supply of such articles without being excessively burdened by taxation.Mr. Gladstone
 said, that to assert that a court of civil or criminal jurisdiction could not fine persons for any contempt or breach of order, was a most extraordinary doctrine. He believed the power of courts to fine for contempt Was as indisputable as any point in the law of England; for how could they vindicate their authority, if they had not the power to fine? Undoubtedly there were ceases in which commitment was necessary, but surely the more lenient course was, to fine.Mr. M. A. Taylor
 admitted, that courts of record had the power both of fining and imprisoning for contempt, but maintained that fining summarily might be the severest mode of punishment which could be resorted to. It might possibly happen, from the pecuniary circumstances of a defendant, that the infliction of a summary fine would have the effect of subjecting him to imprisonment for life.Mr. Denman
462l.l.l.,l.461l.460 rose to move for a select committee to inquire into the Commercial Intercourse between Great Britain and Ireland. He stated his object to be, 1st. That all goods subject to excise duties should be relieved from drawbacks and countervailing duties where the internal duties were equal; and where they were different, that the difference only should be drawn back, or paid. 2dly, That all foreign and colonial goods should be subject to the same regulations. 3dly, That the Union duties should be repealed on all articles not made in Ireland, and continued for a limited time only on those particular manufactures which actually existed in Ireland, and for which large capital and machinery were necessary. 4thly, That all the trade between both countries should be placed on the footing of the coasting trade as to Custom-house documents, port and other charges. 5thly, That the luggage of travellers should be exempt from search, except under particular circumstances of suspicion. And 6thly, That the currency of both countries should be assimilated. The hon. member said, that the policy of adopting several of these measures was so evident, that there was no necessity for making any detailed observations upon them; but on some of them there prevailed a difference of opinion, which required to be more fully discussed. As to the subject of the union duties, the question was, whether any circumstances existed to justify such a great departure from all sound principles of trade; did the interests of a few manufacturers justify she raising of the prices on all manufactured goods to the whole
462l.l.l.,l.461l.460Sir H. Parnell
 said, he had no objection to let the matter take the course proposed by the chancellor of the exchequer. The amendment was then agreed to, and the House adjourned till the 30th.Sir H. Parnell
467 said, he could not listen to the assertion that it was the intention
467Sir C. Long
dd.s.l. defended the motion of his hon. friend, which, he maintained, was consistent with the practice of parliament. It was not at all uncommon that the House should pledge themselves to do something which they had not already done; and that they had not seriously considered any of those estimates with a view to economy was, he thought, clear. His majesty's government had yet done nothing in that respect; and so obedient was a majority of that House to the wishes of the ministers, that, if on a sum of 5,000dd.s.l.Mr. Bennet
468 felt it unnecessary to press on the House the
468The Marquis of Londonderry
 maintained the expediency of agreeing to the motion, in order that the House might show its disposition to attend to the distresses of the people, by pledging itself, at the first convenient opportunity, to take into consideration the salaries specified, in order to determine whether they might not be advantageously reduced. If such motions as these were rejected, he was persuaded that things could not go on as they were; for the distressed people, finding that all their petitions for relief were fruitless, would naturally withdraw their confidence from those by whom their complaints were disregarded.Mr. Hutchinson
 who had himself been educated at the college, expressed his persuasion, that while the senior department was eminently serviceable to the country, the junior was wholly useless; yet the reductions which had taken place had been most injudiciously in that department principally from which alone public benefit was derived. Of the professors of fortification and drawing, three were Frenchmen, one of whom had been a lieutenant in the navy. Now, he was at a loss to conceive what this person could know of fortification. It was urged, that this establishment had furnished many officers to the army; but it should be recollected, that within the last five years no more than 52 officers had been taken into actual service from half-pay. This, therefore, was a gross injustice to the whole of the half-pay list.Colonel Davies,
 observed, that every gentleman who knew the governor of the Military College must acknowledge the great services which he had rendered to the country. Sir G. Murray had devoted his mind to that department, and had introduced great and effective improvements into it.Sir Lowry Cole
472 admitted the merits of the gallant officer alluded to. His objection was not to the individual, but to the
472Colonel Davies
 said, that it was not the duty of the governor, nor would it become his station, to enter into all the minute details of the establishment. It would not become him, for instance, to inquire, on every occasion, whether one boy was to be put into the black hole, or whether another boy should receive punishment of a different nature.Sir L. Cole
 was of opinion, that if the college had been productive of good in disseminating knowledge among our officers, it had also produced much evil in inculcating notions inconsistent with the principles of a free constitution. It was said, that our officers were ignorant before the establishment of this college. This he would deny. He had himself, twenty years ago, known many officers, as well educated, and as well informed, as any gentleman now in the army. It would be better to allow parents to qualify their children for the army, by providing the necessary instruction. If government once established the rule, that none but the educated officer should receive a commission, those who applied would take care to possess themselves of the necessary knowledge.Mr. Bennet
 defended the system pursued in the Military College, as highly beneficial to the country, particularly the first class, which was exclusively for the education of the orphans of officers who bad died in the defence of their country. He read a letter from general Wolfe to a friend, in which he recommends that all young officers should possess a knowledge of the Latin and French languages and also some knowledge of the mathematics. The letter went on to say, that all young officers should make themselves masters of these qualifications, in order that they might be enabled to discharge the important trust reposed in them, and without which we must sink under the indefatigable exertions of our restless neighbours.Colonel Wood
l.l. had no hesitation in replying, that it was not the intention of government to recommend a reduction in the garrisons alluded to. They considered them as a perfectly suitable mode of rewarding the services of distinguished military officers. When he looked at the amount of these garrisons, he by no means thought it an exorbitant scale to exist for the purpose he had mentioned. The hon. gentleman had made a particular application of his general doctrine, which was not very candid towards the person bearing the illustrious name which the earl of Chatham did. That distinguished officer never contemplated his appointment as a sinecure, but, on the contrary, intended to make it one of effective service. The reason why he had not gone out to Gibraltar earlier, was on account of the death of lady Chatham; but he was at this moment about to set out to take the actual command of the garrison. As the noblelord's departure had been announced in the newspapers, he was astonished that the hon. member, with his usual general knowledge, should seem to be ignorant of it. With respect to the emolument of the office, the earl of Chatham had 4,400l.l.The Marquis of Londonderry
l.l. said, he was ready to pay a tribute to the name of Chatham; but it should be recollected, that as the son of the illustrious statesman who first obtained the name, the noble earl enjoyed a pension of 3,000l.l.Colonel Davies
 asked for what conceivable reason, the establishments of garrisons were kept up at Inverness, Hull, and Stirling? Notwithstanding the splendid names which the noble lord had put at the head of his list, he had no doubt if all the names were given, that there would he found among them some excellent electioneerers.Mr. Bennet
 was not prepared to give the noble lord the information he wished to obtain. He could only state, that when the appointment of lord Chatham was made out, it was distinctly understood that the noble earl would proceed to Gibraltar to perform the duties of the situation.The Marquis of Londonderry
 contended, that as the duke of Kent had been absent from Gibraltar so many years, and as lord Chatham had hitherto been absent since his appointment, it must be essentially a sinecure. It seemed to him that lord Chatham's going out was planned to take from the office the character which it had hitherto borne; but still he could not but regard it as a sinecure; and the course now taken, struck him as being merely an expedient resorted to by ministers in consequence of their determination not to give up their patronage.Mr. Philips
l. felt it his duty to offer a tribute of respect to the character of the duke de Guiche, and concluded with moving, as an amendment to the motion of Mr. Hume, that the proposed grant be reduced 2,000l.Mr. Bennet
 said, that the eloquence of angels would be useless against the majority of that House: he would, however, do his duty. He thought the duty which was at present done by six medical attendants at this hospital, might be amply discharged by two. He also complained of the increased salaries paid to the officers of the medical establishment.Colonel Davies
 said, that all the medical attendants were fully occupied. No one acquainted with the duty they had to perform could think they were overpaid.Sir C. Long
l. said, he found a charge of 100l.Mr. Gordon
 explained, that tins magistrate took all the attestations necessary before the board.Sir C. Long
480 observed, that several foreign officers receiving the half-pay of England were serving in the army of other
480Colonel Davies
 asked, whether the ministers would say that the office of governor of Gibraltar ought to continue in perpetuity; if this was their intention, they should avow it. If not, never was there a more improper appointment than that of lord Chatham. It had been the uniform defence of sinecures, that they were bestowed as a reward for great public services: but the assertion was falsified by universal experience.Lord A. Hamilton
 said, that he, for one, did not think it right, in a free country like this, to have young men educated from their earliest youth with a view solely to the army. He entertained an old prejudice against accustoming boys to see nothing around them but military uniforms and military discipline. He did not think it proper that they should be totally separated from the affairs of civil life. However necessary such an establishment might have been during war, he thought it might be reduced in a time of peace. But even if such an establishment were necessary, still there was no occasion for sending boys to it at an earlier period than that at which persons studied for the bar or the church, which was never before 15 years of age. He also objected to the employment of four French professors, as he could not see any connection between a knowledge of the French language and the duties of a British officer.Lord John Russell
 wished to know if it was the intention of ministers that lord Chatham should permanently reside at Gibraltar as governor, and if so, whether it was their intention to abolish the situation of lieutenant-governor.Lord J. Russell
 said, that he looked with great jealousy at the establishment in question! He was convinced that a better system of education might be promoted at much less expense, and should feel it his duty to vote for a reduction of the proposed grant.Mr. Bright
 said, as a proof that influence was not the only means of obtaining commissions at the Military College, that he was present at a recent examination, at which a young man was presented with a commission in an old regiment, as a reward for the excellent manner in which he stood the examination. Formerly, officers sought instruction abroad, merely because in this country military education was neglected. He had no hesitation in saying, that the system of instruction now pursued at Sandhurst was superior to the system pursued at the colleges abroad.Sir H. Hardinge
 was of opinion that the Military College was not of sufficient advantage to the community to be maintained in its present state, during the existence of so much distress in the country.Mr. J. H. Smyth
474 maintained, that the object of this institution was not attended to. The interests of the children of officers were not benefited by it, but only those
474Mr. Hume
476 said, that the services of the late duke of Kent would, at least, bear comparison with those of lord Chatham: every one knew the services of his lordship, and he believed every one was convinced that those services were fully requited wherever they were performed— whether at Walchcren, or at any other
476Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l. repeated his deep regret, that in times like the present, no expectation was held out to the country that the 28,000l.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
l.l.478 called attention to the manner in which this charge had been swollen out by the late temporary embodying of
l.l.478Mr. Hume
l. said, that the description which the noble lord had given of the persons selected did not generally apply But as a pledge appeared to have been given them, though most improperly, he should not press his amendment to a division.l.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l.l.l.d.l.l.l.l.479 said, if the smallest wish for
l.l.l.l.l.l.d.l.l.l.l.479Mr. Hume
 thought it might hereafter be advantageous to consider whether Chelsea Hospital ought to be continued.Mr. Hume
l.l. asked, if government intended to keep up the charges for garrisons, which were merely sinecures? Would they not reduce the appointments of governors in places where there were no garrisons to govern? Included in the present vote were several places of that description. He would particularly instance the governorship of Gibraltar, for which lord Chatham had 2,800l.l.Mr. Hume
 said, that one would suppose, from the gallant general's observation, that the governor was above his work. If the lieutenant-governor attended to commitments to the black hole, what were the captains, and the 10 or 12 Serjeants to attend to? This was indeed drawing a cork with a ten-horse power. Either the boys at Sandhurst were the worst in the world, or their managers were the worst. The reduction he had proposed was extremely moderate, under all the circumstances, and it was the duty of the House to insist that it should be made,Mr. Hume
l.l.470l.l.l.l.l.s.l.l.l. said, he had great objection to this item. He would admit, that the expense of the establishment had been considerably reduced since 1816. It was then 33,000l.l.470l.l.l.l.l.s.l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 said, that the resolution proposed no specific reduction, and therefore did not bind the House to any thing farther than that they would seriously consider the items whenever they came before them. He had not heard of the resolution until it was proposed. If he had been consulted upon it, he would have advised his hon. friend to defer it until the bringing up the report; but as it was now before the House, he would vote for it.Mr. Hume
 observed, that he had the concurrence of every cavalry officer in stating, that the Riding-house at Pim-Jico was totally useless, and ought to be suppressed. He trusted that that department would be again brought under the attention of the House.Captain O'Grady
 said, his object was, not that the House should now go, into the consideration of those items, but that it should pledge itself to consider them when the report of the committee should be brought up. Such a resolution, he conceived, would not stultify the House, His object was, to direct the attention of parliament and the public to those large votes, and that our economy should not consist in the unnecessary dismissal of a, few of the lower clerks.Mr. Creevey
466l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l. said, he wished to address a few words to the House before it went into a committee. They had been now sitting six weeks upon the army estimates, without a single reduction in any one item proposed having been agreed to; still, however, a sensation had been felt elsewhere, as he understood, that circulars had been addressed to the inferior clerks in the public offices to intimate a probable reduction of their salaries. Now, he was anxious, that, when the gentlemen opposite began to reform the public offices, they should begin at the right end. The lower clerks were the most useful class of persons in the public departments, and yet their salaries were to be curtailed, while the salaries of those at the head of the offices were not to be touched. He wished the House to pledge itself on this subject, not, indeed, to any specific reduction, but according to the terms of a resolution which he held in his hand, and which referred to several great officers in the civil department of the army, who were already provided for by the votes on the estimates; and he would only ask the House to come to the resolution of taking into its serious consideration the expediency of reducing the great salaries which they at present enjoyed, when the report of the committee of supply should be brought up. The officers to whom he referred were eleven, and they received collectively the enormous sum of 16,000466l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Creevey
 said, that in the present state of the country, he could not support the grant, the more particularly as he apprehended that there was a perversion of the original design of the establishment.Mr. T. Wilson
 complained of the system of military education. If the children of deceased officers were to be educated, why not give them a civil education? He not only complained of the establishment itself, but of the wasteful expenditure attending it. For 290 children, there were no fewer than 104* masters and servants.Mr. W. Williams
473 could not join in opinion with the noble lord, that officers should be brought up in a happy constitutional ignorance of their profession, and of the language of those countries in which they might be appointed to serve. Such was the case with the officers of the British army at one time, and the consequence was, that foreign officers were hired to do that duty, without a knowledge of which the courage of the British
473Lord Palmerston
477 said, it was a mistake to suppose that the whole of the offices in question were sinecures. The governors were almost the only officers that could be regarded as holding sinecures; which situations were more congenial to the
477Lord Palmerston
 observed, that the agent alluded to had not been appointed by him. The only concern, indeed, which he had had with that officer was, to reduce the percentage allowed him from 3½ to 2½. As to the comparison between the half-pay of native and foreign officers, the former could, if in this country, receive their half-pay personally without any deduction for agency; and the agency objected to was merely meant to put those foreign officers upon the same footing.Lord Palmerston
 said, the officers who were placed on veteran battalions, had indeed the privilege of full-pay when disembodied, but they forfeited all chance of promotion, and, even after they retired, were liable to be called on again. Officers who had so retired, were called on to serve in the new battalions alluded to; but they had been found too much worn out and broken in constitution to perform any military service. The commander-in-chief had selected, not according to length of service, which was an improper criterion, but those who, from severity of service or incapacity, were disabled for more active duty. Some of them, though they had held commissions for a short time, had served long as non-commissioned officers.Lord Palmerston
 denied that the situation of governor of Gibraltar was a sinecure. An hon. member had declared, that situations of this description were granted to individuals in order to serve electioneering purposes. He had, however, given a very awkward exemplification, when he alluded to the governorship of Stirling. That post was held by lord Hutchinson, who would scarcely exert his influence for electioneering purposes, at least in favour of ministers.Lord Palmerston
 replied, that the gallant duke had never received any half-pay from this country since he entered into the army of his legitimate sovereign, and that his name was inserted in the half-pay list merely as a record of his services to this country.Lord Palmerston
 said, be had never known a resolution so extraordinary in its nature, or so singular in its grounds. The hon. member had heard that some reductions were about to be made; and therefore he called upon the House to re-consider certain votes it had already come to. If the government had not come to any determination to reduce its expenses, then there might be, ground, for the amendment; but it was a, most singular reason for it that government had determined to see what reductions might be made in particular departments. It was not less singular that the hon. member should call upon the House to pledge itself to the consideration of a report, which was not yet before them. The resolutions of the committee were not yet reported, and the House could not regularly know what they were; therefore, according to every parliamentary principle, the motion was inadmissible. In a few days, the items to which the amendment alluded must come before the House, and he conceived it would be, only stultifying itself, to declare now that it would consider what, in the course, of business, must come under its consideration in so short a time. The thing carried absurdity on the face of it, unless the House admitted that it was so sluggish, that unless it thus pledged itself be-forehand, it would not otherwise consider them.Lord Palmerston
l.471 was glad that the hon. gentleman had saved him the trouble of proving the expediency of properly educating officers for the army. With respect to the want of commissions to the number educated in the military college, he had to state that there were only fourteen cadets who had passed examination and had not received commissions. When it was considered that examinations were annual, and that this was the whole produce now unprovided for, it could not be said that the number was too great. If all were appointed to commissions who had passed examination, before the next examination took place, it was as much as could be expected. The House might feel satisfaction in learning that the number educated in this college since its institution was 2,528. Of these 1,867 had joined the service; and 248 remained at the college. Of the remaining 415, some had died, some had been unqualified, and some had preferred other professions. The expenses altogether differed very little from the ordnance and naval establishments of the same kind. The governor and lieutenant-governor were both resident, and conscientiouly attentive to their duties. He was surprised that the hon. gentleman who was so active in his inquiries, and who had sent to survey the Lord Howe, lying God knew where, had not applied his investigating faculties to the duties and salaries of the governor and lieutenant-governor of the military college, but should have come to the House and professed his total ignorance on the subject. When the number and nature of the persons educated were considered, it would be admitted, that not
l.471Lord Palmerston
 expressed his intention, and that of his hon. friends, of discontinuing the discussions upon the different items of the estimates. After the ordnance estimates should be gone through, either himself or some hon. friend of his would move a series of resolutions upon the whole amount of our army establishment. It was impossible not to see that the House was tired of the discussions which had taken place, from the scanty attendances, and particularly that of last night. Therefore it was, that they intended to make their objections upon the whole sums, and to hold them up to the public, so that the country might see what votes the House were willing to grant. With all their efforts they had not been able to prevail upon the House to reduce one shilling upon the whole of the estimates. He was confident, however, that the country would never again see such estimates brought-down in a time of peace.Mr. Bennet
 said, that the House had agreed to the present estimates without correction or diminution, because they were judged to be such as the existing circumstances of the country required. By such circumstances the estimates were always regulated, and were never considered as fixed and permanent expenditure. As to the resolutions of which the hon. member gave notice, on a general scale, when they were brought forward, would be the time to meet them.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
con.nem.l.,l.482 rose to offer some observations on the subject of half-pay, which, he trusted, would meet with due attention in the right quarter. The number of officers on the half pay of the English and Irish establishments, was 8,616, and the amount annually expended in their
con.nem.l.,l.482Colonal Davies
 observed, that the hon. member's motion went to exclude all but military men who had already served from entering the ranks of the army; whereas he ought to take into consideration, that after the long contest the country had been engaged in, there must be many meritorious officers whose claims in behalf of their children were entitled to attention. The appointments that had taken place within the last five years were principally of that description, and, generally speaking, those who were upon half-pay at present had no wish to return to full pay Since 1816, from 250 to 300 annually had retired voluntarily from full to half-pay.General Gascoyne
 after a few prefatory remarks, in which he observed, that the effect of the present system was, that only about an eighth of those who received commissions in the army were previously educated at the college, expressed his wish that the small number of ensigns and cornets from the half-pay placed on full pay, as compared with those who had never been in the army to whom commissions were given, might be stated on the Journals, for which purpose, he would move, as an amendment to the resolution, "That it appears by the returns before the House, that from the 25th Jan. 1816, to the 25th Jan. 1821, there were 1,105 first commissions granted by his royal highness the commander in chief, in regiments of cavalry and infantry of the line, to persons who had never before been in the army; of which 597 were by purchase, and 508 without purchase; that there were, during that period, cornets and ensigns on half-pay, from whom these 508 officers might have been selected, and which appointments would have afforded, at the same time, employment to officers of experience, and a saving to the public of about £.29,464 a-year, or a total charge, if taken at twelve years purchase, of £.353,568 to the country; that in these five years, only 54 cornets and ensigns have been brought on full pay, from the great number of 1,214 cornets and ensigns which now are on the half-pay of the army."Mr. Hume,
 said, that the amendment went directly to stop all promotion in the army, and to recognise the exclusion of all civil ranks of the community. The hon. gentleman was wrong in supposing that it was the general wish of half-pay officers to return to full pay. The deaths amongst the half-pay officers last year were eighty-seven, whilst the whole number of deaths which occurred in the army on active service at home and in every part of the world in the same year, was only sixty-one, which showed the description of the former to be that of worn-out soldiers, not anxious to return to active service.Mr. Huskisson
l. called the attention of the House to circumstances of great hardship under which officers of the rank of major-generals laboured in consequence of the existing regulations. He knew an instance in which the officer having expended 5,000l.Sir H. Vivian
483 observed, that it was the anxious desire of the commander-in-chief, to relieve the half-pay list, and to satisfy the claims of the officers on that list by appointing to full pay from it, as far as was consistent with the interests of the country. From Jan. 1816 to Jan. 1821, there had been 1,105 officers commissioned. Of these, 508 had been without purchase, 114 were cadets from Woolwich, and 80 from the half-pay; the remaining 314 were appointed without purchase. On the average, therefore, 62 commissions had been given away every year, of which 38 were to cadets from the military college and to the half-pay list. If the whole of the vacancies in the army
483Lord Palmerston
486 could not avoid calling the attention of the House to the time at which this complaint made its appearance: this transaction took place in April 1820, and eleven months had been allowed to pass before the present petition was put into the hands of the noble lord. During all that time the doors of the courts in Scotland had been open to the petitioner, if he thought himself aggrieved. This House had also been open to him; and if the petitioner had suffered the injury which he alleged, he owed it to himself to bring forward his demand for redress at an earlier period. As far as regarded himself—and he was the only party responsible—he was not bound to produce the grounds on which the charge of high treason had been made against this individual. But supposing that there were even no grounds at all, he was prepared to contend, that the petitioner should have called for redress in a court of law, where the lord advocate's mouth would have been open. He contended, that he had the best grounds for causing the apprehension of the prisoner, and denied that he was treated with harshness and severity; on the contrary, he was taken to the Bridewell instead of the prison of Glasgow through lenity, as there were then about one hundred culprits in the prison, and in Bridewell he had every accommodation which it was proper to
486The Lord Advocate
 observed, that though he agreed that the case of the petitioner was not so severe as he had first supposed, yet he thought it was more severe than ft ought to have been. The reason why the petitioner had not brought his action was, his conviction (whether right or wrong) that he could not obtain justice in a court in Scotland against the lord-advocate. The charges against the whole of the persons arrested on the occasion alluded to were similar in their nature to those against the Spa-fields rioters. It turned out that the accused was only guilty of a riot. He was sorry that the learned lord had not taken example by what had occurred on that occasion.Mr. Maxwell
 replied, that that was not the practice of the law of Scotland. The public prosecutor proceeded on the information which he received, and was of course responsible for his acts.The Lord Advocate
 rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move an address to his majesty for the employment of officers on half-pay in preference to individuals who had never been in the army. The address he had copied verbatim from one carried unanimously in 1740. It was indisputable, that every possible attempt ought to be made to diminish the public expenditure, and the present proposition was one which would materially tend to the attainment of that object. After the discussion of yesterday lie would only observe, that the case of many of the officers on half-pay was one of peculiar hardship; for being once reduced, it was only by the greatest interest that they could again obtain employment in active service. The hon. member then moved, "That an humble address be presented to his majesty, that, for the present and future ease of his majesty's subjects, he will be graciously pleased to employ in his army such persons as now remain upon half-pay who are qualified to serve his majesty."Colonel Davies
 observed, that there was at this moment under the consideration of government a measure for lessening the scale of superannuation allowances, with respect to persons who held public offices.The Marquis of Londonderry
 said, the regulation was, that two-thirds of the fees payable on issues from the exchequer on account of the army, should be carried to the consolidated fund; and an act had been passed for that purpose. Now, what was the complicated state of the accounts of which the hon. member complained? The fees paid into the exchequer on military issues had, from time immemorial, been voted in the committee of supply, and were partly handed over to certain officers whose property they were; the remainder went to the consolidated fund.Sir C. Long
 said, that in the event of new appointments, such appointments would be open to any pew regulation that might be considered necessary.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
491 said, he had no objection to pay liberally persons employed in the public service, but he would wish to see
491Mr. Bennet
 said, there were two provisions in the bill which he conceived might be improved. By one clause the secretary for the home-department was empowered to re-imburse police officers for any extraordinary expense they might incur in the prosecution of certain duties, the fact being certified by the police-magistrates. This provision might be extended, with much benefit, to cases in which the parties aggrieved were unable, from their poverty, to employ officers. It was provided, by a second clause, that, in cases of petty misdemeanor, the constable of the night might suffer the party accused to go at large, on giving bail to appear at the police-office in the morning. It was not, however, imperative on the constable to do so. Now, he thought the constable ought to be compelled to receive bail in such cases.Mr. Bernal
495494mandamus493492 expressed his surprise that the hon. gentleman should bring forward the measure in question in the absence of many individuals who felt a deep interest in its provisions. After all that had been said on the subject of the metropolitan police—after all the evidence that had been given to show the necessity of new-modelling it—he could not repress his astonishment, when he found such a measure proposed as that which the hon. gentleman had introduced—than which no measure could be imagined so utterly imperfect for any good or efficient purpose, or containing the seeds of so much real mischief. The objection which he and other gentlemen had to this bill was, that, in the dangerous situation in which the metropolis now stood, recourse had not been had to those salutary measures for checking the evil which a wise government would have seen and adopted. He was sorry that the step which he had suggested, and which experience had shown to be beneficial in the ease of the Prison bill, had not been adopted, namely, the sending the bill to a committee above stairs, where alone details could be examined in an effectual manner. The bill had been brought in without consultation with the magistrates of the metropolis, or with those who were most conversant with
495494mandamus493492Mr. Bennet
 said, that the hon. gentleman had suggested many things that might hereafter be proper subjects for inquiry by a committee upstairs. At present the appointment of a committee seemed unnecessary, there having already been four committees at different times, and three very full reports. These reports had been attended to in the framing of this bill.Mr. H. Clive
 objected to the principle of several of the clauses, especially those respecting the power of taking up persons suspected to be vagrants. He also observed that the latter part of the bill was wholly unconnected with the former; so much so, that he would suggest the propriety of dividing it into two distinct hills. If the first part relating to the payment of salaries, could be brought within a reasonable compass, no gentleman could object to it; but, as it stood at present, he must oppose it.Mr. Denman
 replied, that those fees were regulated by law, and were the vested rights of individuals. By interfering with them, the House would enter into a complicated inquiry with little prospect of advantage.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
485 rose to present a petition from Mr. James Turner, a respectable person, who had resided for twenty-two years in Glasgow, carrying on the trade of a tobacconist. The petitioner complained, that he had been arrested on a charge of high treason, and had never been brought to trial, or received any compensation. The petitioner did not mean pecuniary compensation, for he was far above accepting any such; but he complained that his character had not been cleared by an acknowledgment that he was innocent of the charges for which he had suffered. He stated, that on the 9th of April, 1820, he was awoke in the night-time by officers, who entered his house with a warrant to search for papers and arms: he was taken immediately to the police-office, and was marched from thence, guarded by a file of soldiers; to the common Bridewell, where he was locked up in a solitary cell with a stone floor, and denied the use of writing ma-
485Lord A. Hamilton
 related the circumstances which had given rise to the apprehension of the petitioner, and observed, that the Bridewell in which he had been confined having been cleared of its usual inmates, was more comfortable than the gaol. Such a variety of information, some good, some bad, was laid before the magistrates, against individuals engaged in the riots in question, that it was surprising that more had not been apprehended. tsMr. Monteith
 had not heard the learned lord say, that the deposition on which the petitioner had been apprehended, was on oath. If it was not, what could warrant such an infringement of the rights of the subject?Mr. Hume
487 appealed to the House whe-
487Mr. Hume
 said; his proposition was, that all fees received at any public office, to which the public had a claim, ought to be brought to one account, and carried to the consolidated fund. At present the treasury account comprised four documents, and nothing could be more complicated. The duties performed at the exchequer ought not to be paid by fees.Mr. Hume
 thought that the idea of the public paying for the payment of its own money was the most preposterous that could be imagined. He could wish the chancellor of the exchequer to bring the whole of the fees thus paid into one account, and then to debit them to the consolidated fund. If so desirable a simplification of accounts were adopted, the House would no longer be in the dark as to the gross amount of these fees.Mr. Hume
 observed, that within the last five years there had been 1,105 cornets and ensigns appointed, of which only 54 had been taken from the half-pay. The House divided: Ayes, 14; Noes, 46.Mr. Hume
489l.l.,l.,l., after a few observations, proceeded to read to the House an extract from the sixth report of the Finance Committee, in which the committee recommended, that an inquiry should be instituted in the superannuation allowances, in order to find out those which ought to be continued, or abolished. The hon. member pointed out several instances of persons receiving superannuation allowances to the amount of 200489l.l.,l.,l.,Mr. Hume,
 Wished to know whether, on the death of the persons now entitled to them, the fees would be abolished, or settled on their successors.Mr. Hume
 supported the resolution. He conceived that there were many public situations, such as barrack-masters, &c. which might be filled up from the half-pay.Captain O'Grady
d.s. would be the last man to cast any implied censure upon the conduct of the commander-in-chief. The exertions of that illustrious personage in his department deserved the warmest praise. He could not, however, help observing, that many general officers were now living upon retired allowances of 7d.s.Sir R. Wilson
 in answer to the hon. member, read an extract from a ministerial circular, of July 1817, in which it was ordered, that no person upon the superannuation list should hold an appointment greater in emolument than that from which he had been superannuated, without being deprived of the difference between such situation and that which such person had formerly held.Lord Palmerston,
488 opposed the resolution, on the ground that it was uncalled for, and would therefore be a censure upon the commander-in-chief, whose conduct at the head of the army had produced the most beneficial effects, and was entitled to the highest praise. The noble lord entered into a calculation, showing
488Lord Palmerston
 vindicated the policy of laying a higher duty on East India sugars than on those made in the West Indies.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
509 wished to know why the English consumer should be obliged to pay more for sugar from the West than from the East Indies. For his part he was not inclined to give such a preference to any class of men, much less to people who had vested their capital in dealing in human flesh. The interest of the consumer, as well as that of the trader, was a point which the House ought never to lose sight of. He would stand up for the people of this country, against the West India trader or grower, or whatever he
509Mr. Bennet
 said, that notwithstanding his hon. friend's lecture on political economy, it was impossible for the West Indian trade to go on, unless by the aid of such a protecting duty. He thought his hon. friend might have spared himself the use of such expressions as he had applied to the West Indian colonists, when he called them dealers in human flesh j such expressions being both uncalled for, and unjust.Mr. Gordon
, with all the respect which he had for the humanity of his hon. friend, wondered that he should allow the heat of the moment to delude his understanding. If his hon. friend inquired into the system of slave management, he would find it to be one of humanity. He must know that the language he had used would go abroad, and operate to the prejudice of the West India traders; and therefore he trusted he would retract the asperity of the expression which he had applied to them.Mr. Bernal
510 said, he was called on to give up his opinion, and to state, that, generally speaking, the slave-trade was one of humanity. He believed it to be no such thing. As an individual capable of forming an opinion upon the principle itself, he could see nothing so humane in it as to lessen the feeling which he had expressed towards it. He certainly did not mean to apply the expressions to any one about him. No doubt there were
510Mr. Bennet
 wished his hon. friend would abstain from speaking on a subject which he did not understand.Mr. Gordon
 observed, that where slavery was tolerated it was impossible that the principles of humanity should not be violated. Against individuals connected with the West India trade his hon. friend had thrown out no charge, but against the slave system, which must ever, be productive of human misery.Dr. Lushington
515514513512511 rose to submit the motion of which he had given notice. He began by observing, that it was not his intention on the present occasion to interfere in any degree with the subject on which a noble lord (W. Bentinck) had given a notice. If he thought that his motion would anticipate, or at all interfere with that of the noble lord, he certainly would not press it. In entering upon so vast and important a subject, he was conscious of his own inadequacy to the task. He would, however, open his view of it to the House, confident that it would be ably enlarged upon by those honourable members who should support him. Looking at the present situation of Europe, he could not but feel considerable apprehension, as well at the nature of the events which were passing, as at the conduct of the British government with respect to them. When the situation of Italy was brought before parliament in February last his majesty's ministers declared that it was not their intention to interfere with respect to Naples. The document which was at that time laid before, and made the subject of discussion in, the other House, declared that the intentions of our government were those of strict neutrality; but nevertheless, they were not backward in showing what, their feelings were, and how far those feelings were against the cause of the
515514513512511Mr. Hutchinson
518517516 said, he could not help objecting to the mode of proceeding adopted by the hon. member. Nothing, however, which had been urged in the course of the hon. member's speech rendered it necessary for him to enter at that moment into the details of the subject. When he came down to the House, he was under the impression that the House was to enter into a discussion on the navy estimates, and when such a question stood upon the paper, he thought it improper that they should be diverted from it, and dragged into an inquiry into the state of the nation with reference to foreign politics. When he heard of the hon. member's motion, he thought he intended to show that the existing state of Europe would enable us to dispense with a considerable portion of the navy estimates. But instead of hearing it recommended that a great portion of those estimates should be cut down, he could not help feeling some surprise at finding an accusation made against him which would form the ground of impeachment, for not having called upon the House, by a message from the Crown, to grant such additional sums as would place the country in a situation to resist the dangers with which she was threatened. He must, however, with all respect, decline the alternative which the hon. member had given him. The hon. member had also given him much advice, and no doubt with the best possible intention; he recommended entering into treaties offensive and defensive with France and Spain, blockading the greater part of the Northern ports, and many other measures of a very salutary nature no doubt, but which were, he must say, wholly thrown away upon him. He felt it necessary also to decline all political advice, when it came from an hon. member who did not appear to see the political state of Europe with sufficient clearness to enable him to make up his own mind upon it. He felt that ministers would act with great rashness if they followed any advice so tendered to them. He never knew it to be the parliamentary course to goad ministers into any act, or any explanation, by such an irregular proceeding as that adopted by the hon. member. If the hon. member would allow him to suggest to him and to
518517516The Marquis of Londonderry
 was happy to hear that the Russian army had stopped its march. He wished to be informed by the noble marquis whether he had had any communication with the Russian government upon the subject. If the object of the Russian army was only to take possession of Italy, from the conduct of the dastardly wretches who had disgraced the name of liberty, he cared not what became of them.Colonel Davies
519 said, that the Russians had been put in motion at the request of the king of Sardinia, and the emperor of Austria, and therefore it was clear that their march had no reference to Spain. Further than this he had
519The Marquis of Londonderry
 objected to granting so large a sum of money in a single grant, and trusted that the hon. baronet would not persist in pressing it in that form.Mr. Bernal
l.l.l.523l. objected to this grant. If reduction was necessary in any branch of the public service, it certainly was in the Admiralty board. No sufficient reason could be given for the existence of six lords with salaries of 1,000l.l.l.523l.Mr. Bernal
524 defended the original grant. With regard to the office of vice-admiral of Scotland, that office was enjoyed by a patent, and therefore could not be touched without an act of extreme injustice. As to the two lords of the Admiralty, whom it had been proposed to reduce, he was convinced that the public business of the board of Admiralty could not be efficiently transacted without them. The duties of that board were both civil and military, but belonged more to the former than they did to the latter description. The board had in consequence been divided into two distinct boards; and, strange as it might appear to the House, the number of clerks employed under the civil board, to say nothing of the law clerks, who were also numerous, greatly exceeded the number of clerks employed under the military board. But the cause which he had mentioned was not the only one; for the board of Admiralty containing a board within itself, it was evident that the duty of the commissioners would frequently render it necessary for them to go to the outports. Business would also be occurring in town at the same time, of such a nature as to render it necessary for some of them to remain there to attend it. The expediency, therefore, of having a distinct board for the transaction of the town business and the outport business could not be disputed. Gentlemen would say, that four lords of the Admiralty might constitute these two distinct boards as well as six; to which he would reply that no doubt they might. But then he maintained that one-half of the whole board ought to be naval officers; and if there were only two of them, they might differ in opinion, and thus bring the public business to a stand-still. This evil was completely obviated by having six lords of the Admiralty, of which three were naval and three civil lords. He might be told, that the evil which he contemplated would be equally well avoided by having only two
524Sir George Cockburne
 said it was quite new to him that the civil lords were, as it was termed, dumbies. He had the honour of a seat at the admiralty Board, I which he had accepted at the urgent request of his right hon. relative then at the head of the board, and he had found himself fully employed. Far from being sinecures, he in his conscience believed the places in question to be most efficient and useful offices.Mr. Robinson
l.d.s.535534 assured the hon. member, that no man could be more anxious than he was to reduce the expenses of this office, and that he never felt more mortified in his life than when he found that, in consequence of the operation of an order in council, the estimate for the present year was greater than for the last. That order required revision; but he wished to square the proposed reduction by some more general system, and that could not be done without consideration. As to the nature of the office of treasurer of the navy, the hon. member had quoted the opinion of the committee of finance on that point; but he (Mr. R.) could not conceive how the committee could have so described the duties of the office. Many of the duties of the treasurer of the navy were entirely different from those of a banker. The hon. member had observed, that the treasurer of the navy had nothing to do with the payment of money, farther than giving one order for another. This, however, was not the case. If a
l.d.s.535534Mr. Robinson
 objected altogether to the principle of this tax, which recognised the policy of giving the produce of one country a preference to that of another.Mr. Ricardo
l.;l.l.l.531l.530529 said, that he never felt more pain in the course of his life, than during the speech of his gallant friend (Sir J. York), whose confidence and friendship he had long enjoyed. It was to him matter of extreme mortification, now to learn, that on former occasions, when they were favoured with his gallant friend's support, it was not the spontaneous exercise of his own candid opinion of which he had given them the benefit, but that which his love of office had dictated. With reference to the constitution of this board, having had thirteen years actual experience of its labours, he must state his deliberately formed conviction, that the constitution of that board was not only highly useful, but almost absolutely indispensable. As to the comparative value of the lay and naval lords, he would also add, that were he to draw a line of preference between the two classes, he would make it in favour of the civil lords; and that, so far from these being mere puppets moved at the will of another, or not moved at all, they were the most active, useful, and efficient class of persons in the public service. If, therefore, it should unfortunately be decided that' two lords should be struck from the board, he had no doubt that those who knew the public business would prefer that the re-
l.;l.l.l.531l.530529Mr. Croker
 said, the West India interest desired no advantage; but as burthens twenty times greater than had been imposed on any other body had fallen on them, they were justified in calling for some relief to enable them to exist. His hon. friend had thought it right to speak of all persons who had by any circumstance become possessed of property in the West Indies, as having vested their capital in human flesh. He thought his hon. friend, when he reflected on what he had said, would feel how unfair his conduct had been, and was confident that his own reproaches would be more severe than any which he could bring himself to pronounce.Mr. Barham
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.;l.;l.l.l.l.l.l.l.;l.;l.l.l.520l.;l. said, that he had a few observations to make before the Speaker left the chair. No man in that House or in the country, felt more than he did the great importance of the navy—no man was more anxious than he was to preserve it unimpaired: to its naval power this country was indebted for its pre-eminent station, compared with the other nations of Europe; friendly, however, as he was to our naval establishment, he yet thought that it could be kept up in a state as perfect as it stood at present, and at much less expense. He did not at that moment mean to go into questions of detail, but would merely take the total expenditures of various departments and compare those expenditures with those of former periods. Here the hon. member went into several items of expenditure connected with various branches of the naval departments. He then went on to say, that considering the great reductions that had recently taken place in almost every article, the House ought to look narrowly at the different heads of expenditure, and endeavour to approximate the expenditure to the expenditure of 1792. He regretted to have heard a declaration made that night in another place by a noble earl (Liverpool), that no further reduction could be made in the present expenditure of the country. He hoped that before that day twelvemonths considerable reductions would be made. The hon. gentleman concluded by moving as an amendment,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.;l.;l.l.l.l.l.l.l.;l.;l.l.l.520l.;l.Mr. Hume
l.l.528l.l.l. said, it was evident, that it was only the necessity of attending the House which made so many lords requisite. It was only a few years since the naval lords had their half-pay as well as their salaries. He wished to know whether there was any intention of bringing them back to their former condition? Though the vote for marines had passed, he felt it necessary to remark on some extravagant expense under that head. There were sundry officers in the navy in the higher ranks, who received various sums from 5l.l.528l.l.l.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.;l.;l.;533l.l.; objected to this resolution, chiefly on the ground that the charges for this office were as great now that it disposed of but six millions of money, as when it had to distribute 22 millions. In 1792, the expense was but 12,000l.l.l.l.l.l.l.;l.;l.;533l.l.;Mr. Hume
 said, he would not press his amendment to a division.Mr. Hume
 said, that after the candid statement of the right hon. gentleman, he would not press his amendment to a division, though he did not think he had fully answered his objections.Mr. Hume
 had had the honour of sitting at the board of admiralty for four years, and supported the assertion of the right hon. the treasurer of the navy.Mr. R. Ward
527 complained of the awkward dilemma to which he and the honourable friends who acted with him were reduced by the gentlemen on the other side. The gallant admiral, who had been eight years a member of the board of admiralty, said that two of the lords were utterly useless. The right hon. gentleman opposite said, upon his honour, that those two additional lords were most useful. After such a declaration so solemnly given, it was almost impossible for him to say that they were not useful. He should however draw his conclusions from contrasting the opinions of the two honourable gentlemen; and certainly, when he considered that at one time the lay lords were described as shipwrights, and at another time as students of Vattal, he was almost inclined to think them totally useless.
527Mr. Creevey
d.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.522l.l. rose to bring forward the Navy Estimates. He observed, that it was impossible for parliament to judge of the amount of emoluments received by dock-yard officers, in the year 1792, from any documents submitted to its notice. At that time a dock-yard officer, with a salary of only 100d.s.l.l.l.l.l.l.522l.l.Sir George Warrender
d.s.l. said, that it was the invariable practice to vote the estimates in the manner which he had proposed. He had no wish to create any obstacles to the investigation of these estimates; indeed, he was as desirous as the hon. gentlemen opposite could be to have them thoroughly sifted. He had therefore, from a presentiment that an objection would be taken against the old method of passing the estimates, prepared the votes in such a manner as would meet the object of the hon. gentlemen. He would therefore withdraw his motion, and move, "That 70,596d.s.l.Sir G. Warrender
521 said, he would not follow the hon. gentleman through the details into which he had entered, though in the committee he should be happy to afford him an opportunity of correcting some of the errors into which he had fallen. It was very material to recollect, that in 1792 the actual expenditure and the sum voted were very different; and it was not until some years afterwards that the estimates represented the real expense. In referring to the Admiralty office, the hon. gentleman had omitted to notice the change in the system of fees by which the establishment was formerly maintained. The management and regulation of the dock-yards had undergone a complete change since 1792; a comparison therefore was altogether unfair. To the ordinary establishment of the navy, the
521Sir G. Warrender
 put it to his gallant friend, whether at any time during the eight years he had been a lord of the admiralty, he had made use of the observations which he had that night uttered regarding the dummies who had seats at the board.Sir Isaac Coffin
 replied, that his gallant friend must be well aware that the moment he had said a word of the kind at that board, his stern must have been turned to the admiraltySir J. Yorke
 expressed great esteem for his hon. friend, but observed, that he did not think their friendship such a rope of sand as could be broken by his conscientious declaration, that the business of the, Board of Admiralty might be as well done by five as by seven lords.Sir J. Yorke
 admitted, that the office had been far from a useless one to his right hon. relative; for after his right hon. relative had been cradled in that nursery of sucking statesmen, as it had been called, he had got from thence, by a hop, step and jump, until he found himself seated on the treasury bench as a cabinet minister.Sir J. Yorke
l.l.l.526l.l.525 said, that nothing would have induced him to have risen but the extraordinary language which he had just heard from his gallant friend. Considering, however, that the country was reduced to a state of extreme poverty, and that the great ships the Britannia, the Caledonia and the Hibernia, if they were not completely water-logged, had at least six feet water in their holds, it became the duty of the captain, the officers, and the crew, and he meant by that metaphor the king, the ministers, and the representatives of the people, to look, one and all, to the safety of each ship, and to do their best to prevent them from sinking. He had often heard it said, that retrenchment was the only means of salvation which remained to this great and independent nation. He did not mean to state that it was his opinion that such was
l.l.l.526l.l.525Sir Joseph Yorke
 apprehended that ministers were so entangled with confederate tyrants, that it was impossible for them to follow the true policy of this country, even if it were their inclination. He must however believe, that they regarded with pleasure the overthrow of the Neapolitan constitution and the threatening of the constitution of Spain. If they did not, they would have taken measures to oppose the conduct of the enemies of European liberty. He thought that the people of Europe had still enough of spirit and of strength, to vindicate the past and to secure the future. There was no cause for despair: if despair existed, it was that despair which animates, and which persuades men that they can have no security but in action and in arms. The government of Piedmont, which the noble lord had called insurrectionary, but which he would call provisional, had most truly said that the cause of constitutional liberty had been morally successful. The possession of Naples was by no means the triumph of Austria. Austria had endeavoured to suppress a volcano, and every attempt to extinguish its fires increased, instead of diminishing them. Austria looked for aid to scaffolds and military executions; but such aids only offered additional impediments to her successful occupation. Austria then, had no cause of triumph, and the people of Europe no cause to despair.Sir R. Wilson
 had no hesitation in declaring his belief, that the system, of slavery in the West Indies was of the most cruel and atrocious nature.Sir R. Wilson
536 recommended his hon. friend to postpone this measure for at least another year. If, the plan of consuming the smoke of Steam Engines was a good one, it would find its way without any legislative enactment; if a bad one it ought not to be forced upon the country. Were the measure confined to the metro-
536Mr. Lyttleton
 was surprised at the objections which had been made by his hon. friend. He seemed to forget the injury which the poorer classes suffered from the existence of the steam engines in their present state. He could name a class of poor persons in London who so suffered: he meant the humble class who got their livelihood by washing. If a steam engine was established in the neighbourhood of the residence of these poor people, their occupation was destroyed altogether.Mr. J. Smith
 said, he would support the bill. He himself had a large steam-engine, and he used the apparatus for consuming smoke, which had succeeded as well as any machinery could be expected to do. By the attention of one man, a large column of smoke could be consumed in a minute. In his way to the House a printed paper on the subject of the bill, had been put into his hands, which mentioned that the apparatus used by Messrs. Barclay and Perkins had completely failed. Now this was the reverse of the fact. He then read a letter from Mr. Perkins, which stated that the apparatus had entirely succeeded.Mr. C. Calvert
 although he thought the plan might be adopted with advantage in the metropolis, and in large towns, was averse to its compulsory extension to the manufacturing districts.Mr. D. Gilbert,
 regretted that he was under the necessity of opposing the bill. The plan had been tried in many instances and had completely failed. Nothing could be more fallacious than such experiments. It had succeeded in Messrs. Barclay's brewery, but with a very great additional consumption of fuel. But with an engine constituted as his (Mr. Buxton's) was, it was quite impossible to carry it into effect. He hoped his hon. friend would postpone the bill for a year or two. If not, he would move as an amendment, that the bill be committed upon this day six months.Mr. Buxton
 said, that representing as he did a county where manufactures were carried on by steam-engines, he felt it his duty to oppose the proceeding any further with the bill in its present shape.Colonel Wood
 trusted the hon. mover would postpone the consideration of the bill, as in its present shape it went to compel the trying of experiments. The courts of law would have to try the merit of every experiment suggested by every projector. He thought the hon. mover was bound to show that the bill could be carried into effect.Mr. Maberly
 supported the bill. He was convinced, from the experiments he had made, that the proposed alteration would cause an ultimate saving.Mr. Curwen
 said, that if the House considered the present state of the law, no impartial man would hesitate in agreeing to the bill. Every steam-engine might now be prosecuted as a nuisance, if it affected the health, comfort or property of those in whose neighbourhood it was situated. In Cornwall and other places, steam engines were not prosecuted, because those who suffered from them had not chosen to prosecute, and because they were generally under the protection of the proprietors of the engines. But the engines had been introduced into villages to the great detriment of property, and the sufferers had not the ability to prosecute. All that the bill proposed was, to enable the court to reimburse the prosecutor, where the defendant was refractory, or to redress such nuisance as really existed where the prosecutor was unreasonable. It would put it in the power of the court to do what at present was done by a side wind. As to restricting it to the metropolis, he did not see why gentlemen in villages should not be relieved as well as the inhabitants of the metropolis. Why should a clergyman who kept a school in a village be smoked out. Why should Manchester, Liverpool, Leeds, be annoyed by nuisances for the sake of Cornish miners. If hon. members would read the reports of the two committees who had considered the subject, they would be satisfied. He could produce the testimonials of persons who had found the plan successful at little expense. The hon. gentleman (Mr. Buxton) must have employed a very clumsy engineer.Mr. M. A. Taylor
538 read a letter from the proprietors of a large establishment at Liverpool, stating that the new plan in-
538General Gascoyne
 hoped the bill would be postponed until another year. The plan required more care than could be usually applied. This was thought a new invention; but Mr. Watt had obtained a patent in 1785 for the consumption of smoke. The public were much indebted to the hon. mover for his exertions, but he felt it his duty to support the amendment.Mr. Philips
 said, that his attention had been called to the effect of the plan in the metropolis and other places, and he had found it successful. No man had a right to annoy or poison his neighbours.Mr. Marryat
 was of opinion, that Mr. Parkes's plan of consuming smoke was highly beneficial, but he hoped that the clauses of the bill would not extend to Cornwall, as it would there produce the most injurious effects.Mr. Alderman Wood
540539 said, that in rising to move the order of the day, for going into a committee of supply, he wished to advert to a question which had been put to him two days ago, and to which he had not at that time been able to give any other than an argumentative reply. The question to which he alluded was this—" Were the Russian troops continuing their march towards the south of Europe or not?" He had then stated, in answer to the question, that those troops had been put in march under special circumstances, and that, though he was not able to say that their march had been suspended, he felt himself entitled to observe, that the change of circumstances in Piedmont, where events had rendered it necessary to call in the assistance of an Austrian army, might produce a change in the movements of those troops. He could now state to the House from official information, that the Russian army would, not pass its own boundaries. In giving this information, he felt it to be due, not only to the House and to the country, but to the two great powers which had been most improperly, most illiberally, and most unjustly treated in that House—for it was sporting with them most unfairly
540539The Marquis of Londonderry
541 shortly stated the principles on which he had written the circular, with regard to the Neapolitan government, and distinguished
541The Marquis of Londonderry
 said, it was not his fault if the hon. members in question were not in their places: probably they had been kept away by the smoke of the bill of the hon. member opposite.The Marquis of Londonderry
 observed, that his hon. friend did not ask the House to stop the supplies: he merely said, we have been so often deceived, that we ought not to vote more money without previous information. If the former plan had failed, it was by no means improbable that the plan now proposed would also fail. If the House went honestly to work, the truth would be extracted in a committee. Several sums were asked without any estimate at all. No proposition was more fair than that of his hon. friend. He merely asked them to look before they leaped.Mr. Bennet
 called the attention of the committee to the situation of two unfortunate ladies, the wives of insane officers, who were plunged into deep distress, in consequence of the regulations adopted by the Board of Admiralty. They had for many years enjoyed the half-pay of their husbands, which had, however, been suddenly reduced, and they were thus placed in a situation of comparative penury. He could see no reason why the family of an individual, who had been deprived, of his senses while serving his country, should be considered less deserving of support than the relatives of the man who had lost a limb in her defence.Mr. Bennet
547 said, the question he had asked was, whether persons who, like the relatives of the unfortunate ladies who had written him a statement of their case, had lost their reason in the service of their country, ought not to be placed on the footing of officers who had lost their limbs. The hon. gentleman had answered him by a legal quibble, as to whether a success-
547Mr. Bennet
 said, he was acquainted with instances in which the regulation adverted to had produced the utmost misery. He did not think the hon. member had, exactly met the point which his hon. friend had pressed upon the consideration of the committee. The case his hon. friend put was this;—"If an officer receives a wound in. battle, no deduction is made from his half-pay; why then should a deduction be made in the case of a man who, in the course of service, is visited by insanity?" In fact, the wound received by the officers to whom allusion had been made—the mental wound—one of them having been on active service at the time he was seized by the malady with which he was afflicted—was the most severe of all human misfortunes. He had abstained from introducing the subject that night, because he meant to move for a committee in order to have it thoroughly investigated.Mr. F. Buxton
 said, that the half-pay could only have been received by these ladies for so long a period, through some irregularity. There was this legal difficulty, which was entitled to consideration, namely, that if these officers were to recover, they might maintain an action at law against the treasurer of the navy, for the whole of the half-pay received without their authority, during the time of their insanity. The board of admiralty had, however, considered such insane officers to be dead in law, and had exercised a charitable, though not perhaps a strictly legal discretion, in granting a moiety of the half-pay to the unauthorized representatives of officers in that situation. The moral effect of conceding to the principle contended for by the hon. gentleman was also to be considered; for it would in fact be giving a premium to the relatives of persons in that unhappy situation to get rid of them.Mr. Croker
 maintained, that he had only stated the general rule upon which the conduct of the board of admiralty was founded. If officers became insane in consequence of wounds received in battle, it was evident that they were as much entitled to pensions as if they had lost a limb in the service. It was but a few days ago, that, in consequence of an application made on behalf of an officer who had become insane and paralytic, he (Mr. C.) had examined the log-books for thirty years back, to see whether he could not find some wound which would justify the grant of a pension. He felt it necessary to state, in his own vindication, that it was mainly owing to the exertions of so humble an individual as himself, that an asylum for insane officers had been established. He had himself laid before the first lord the information which had been collected on this subject before a committee of that House seven or eight years ago, and it was in consequence of his personal exertions that this asylum was established. He stated this for the purpose of showing the looseness with which the hon. gentleman was in the habit of shooting off his arrows.Mr. Croker
 thought that though great sacrifices ought to be made to preserve the ascendancy of the British navy, its security would not be impaired by attending to the diminished scale of expense which was now proposed.Mr. Warre
 objected to the expense of the new tunnel at Chatham as unnecessary and excessively expensive.Mr. Warre
 thanked God that there was yet one corner of Europe in which the conduct of the allied sovereigns could be freely discussed. He implored the House not to look upon the stoppage of the Russian army in any other light than as an abstinence from crime and violence.Mr. Warre
ll.l.l.l.l.l.l.543l. said, that before the House went into the committee of supply, he should propose a resolution. The House had before it three different estimates for completing and repairing naval works without any information regarding their necessity. In times like these it was fit to get at that information. The complaint against him and his hon. friends had hitherto been, that, excepting as to the army, they had only sought to save trifling sums; but now they were called upon to consider estimates of many millions: independently of the sums already voted by parliament, no less than 1,697,545ll.l.l.l.l.l.l.543l.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l.542 rose to put a question to the hon. baronet, relative to the works in the dock-yards, particularly Sheerness. He confessed that he entertained considerable doubts both as to the necessity and the expediency of carrying them on. He
l.l.l.l.542Mr. Hume
l. re-stated that his object was inquiry, and not to obstruct any important public works. He was ready to vote 50,000l.Mr. Hume
l.545l. said, that a large expenditure was of late years annually incurred for royal yachts. He was aware that they ought to be fitted up in a superior manner for the reception of royalty; but still he was at a loss to see what necessity there was for keeping up annually some of the officers; for instance, there was a sum of 1,300l.545l.Mr. Hume
l. referred to the report of a committee, to show that the manufacture of ships had been carried much further than the circumstances required, and maintained that we were now building more ships than we should be able to man, if we were to go to war to-morrow. Under these circumstances, he would move that the estimate be reduced to 794,580l.Mr. Hume
 withdrew his amendment, on the ground that if carried it would cause the violation of certain contracts, which government had entered into; but he did so only with the understanding, that the reduction proposed should take place after the fulfilment of the contracts.Mr. Hume
l.l. objected to so large a grant for this purpose, without inquiry, and stated that this was only to be part payment of a sum of two millions, 1,600,000l.l.Mr. Hume
548l.l. said, he had reason to know that these unfortunate ladies, who had been in the receipt of their pension for 18 years, had been plunged into the deepest distress in consequence of this small pittance of 60548l.l.Mr. Hume
 said, that he had already disclaimed any wish to limit the proper expenditure for fitting up the yachts in a suitable manner for the reception of his majesty, but he certainly objected to this annual full pay for a few weeks' service.Mr. Hume
 was surprised that the noble marquis should have charged hon. gentlemen with injustice and illiberality, when those gentlemen were absent who had taken part in the debate of Friday last. He himself thought that those charges were perfectly untenable. The House had seen the conduct of the allied powers towards Naples; they had seen the emperor of Russia denouncing the revolution in Spain as an insurrection, at the very moment that it was completed; and they had seen his forces moving in the direction of Spain at the very moment that the forces of the emperor of Austria were moving in the direction of Naples. Under such circumstances, suspicion would have been impossible, even if they had known nothing of the partition of Saxony, the transfer of Norway, and the abandonment of Genoa. If the noble marquis had committed this country by approving of such enormous atrocities, it became doubly incumbent upon members of that House to denounce the continuance of so abominable a system.Mr. Denman
 said, that if the works at Sheerness were not proceeded with, all that had been done would be lost by the encroachment of the sea. After the defence was completed, it was resolved not to continue the works until the whole had been proved. He was certainly adverse to delay.Sir G. Cockburn
 said, that when the sovereign of Great Britain went to sea, it was not to be expected that he would abandon that state which was inseparable from his dignity. He could, however, assure the committee, that no unsuitable expense was occurred in fitting up the yachts. It was true that in the establishment of surgeons, the yachts were placed on the same footing as sea-going ships; and he thought there ought to be no cavil upon that, when it was considered that the appointment was reserved for old surgeons who deserved well of their country. The difference, too, between their half and full pay was so trifling, as to render the saving hardly worth consideration, when the objects of it were kept in view.Sir G. Cockburn
546 said, that persons suffering under the unhappy malady, were confined in a lunatic establishment supported by government at considerable expense. If lunatic officers had no family, government received their pay. If they had a family, then their friends might keep them altogether, and receive their full-pay, or receive half-pay, leaving them at the Lunatic Asylum. The two ladies
546Sir G. Cockburn
 admitted, that if all our ships were now in good order we should want no more; but that was not the case; the ships now building would last almost for ever; for by lying a long while in ordinary, they would acquire a firmness which nothing else would give them.Sir G. Cockburn
 explained, that the tunnel was intended to drain the whole dock-yard; but the hon. gentleman seemed to confound it with the saw-mills, which was a work already finished.Sir G. Warrender
l. said, that the sum now required was not for the same works as were provided for last year, although 30,000l.Sir G. Warrender
544 was sure that if the hon. member inspected the works at Sheerness,
544Sir I. Coffin
 would like to hear the names of some of the scientific and experienced persons who had informed the hon. member that the works at Sheerness were of no use since the introduction of steam boats. At Chatham the water was so shoal that ships of war sometimes grounded at their moorings; whereas at Sheerness there was a depth of 52 feet at low water. Since the project regarding Northfleet had been abandoned, government had wisely thought fit to restore and improve Sheerness.Sir J. Yorke
 thought that half a million might be saved, avid doubted much the policy of continuing to build ships at Bombay.Sir J. Yorke
 thought this the most surprising proposition of any, considering that the wages of the artificers had been reduced one-fifth, and that the consumption of timber must necessarily be much diminished.Sir J. Yorke
 observed, that as the Admiralty had contracted for a supply of timber up to the next year, no reduction could be made in the estimate until that period had expired.Sir T. B. Martin
 said, he was disposed to vote against the whole sum, if government refused inquiry.Lord Milton
 observed, that the House and the country would feel satisfaction at the explanation which the noble lord had given upon a subject so important. He could not, however, think that hon. gentlemen were, in consequence of it, to be restrained from expressing their opinions upon the conduct of the continental powers. Allowing that both Russia and Austria were free from any spirit of territorial aggrandizement, still it was evident that they were actuated by a spirit of aggrandizement scarcely less injurious—he meant that of making the executive government too strong for the liberties of the people. He did not know whether the fact of one sovereign applying to another sovereign for a body of troops to keep down the discontents of his own people, was not a precedent as dangerous to the liberties of nations, as the fact of the Stuarts taking money from Louis 14th, to put down the rising spirit of England, would, if long continued, have been to the liberties of England. When he recollected the conduct of the allied sovereigns in general since the conclusion of the war, and especially when he recollected the conduct of the king of Prussia who had made more promises to give a constitution to his subjects than any other monarch, and who had nevertheless broken them all, he thought it rather too much for any member to say, that they ought not to look with an eye of jealousy at the designs entertained by these sovereigns.Lord Milton
 said, there could be no doubt that the article containing such an insinuation was a libel, and a breach of the privilege of the House. He would therefore support the motion.The Marquis of Londonderry
552551550 said, that during the number of years he had had the honour of sitting in that House, he never rose to offer any animadversion, or to support any censure, upon the public press but with extreme pain and reluctance. But, he should think that he violated his duty to himself, and his duty as a member of parliament, if he did not bring under the consideration of the House a statement in which the honour of the House itself was too deeply implicated, and its privileges too openly compromised, to allow him to hesitate in the discharge of such a task. This statement had appeared in a Sunday paper, called the "John Bull," and trespassed upon one of those privileges which every member had an undoubted title to exercise. The House would probably recollect, that on Friday evening last, in consequence of a question having been put to him by the member for Ross-shire (Mr.
552551550Mr. Bennet
573 expressed his readiness to concur in any arrangement that appeared desirable to accomplish the object which the hon. member had in view. His personal acknowledg-
573The Marquis of Londonderry
 begged leave to express his sincere thanks to the hon. and learned gentleman, for the pains he had evidently taken with this most important subject. In refraining at present from making any observations upon the details which had been so forcibly submitted by the hon. and learned gentleman, he trusted that he would not infer from his silence any want of zeal, or any disinclination to lend his assistance in considering the whole subject. As the hon. and learned gentleman at present merely moved for leave to bring in his bill, sufficient time would no doubt be hereafter allowed to consider the whole question.The Marquis of Londonderry
584583 said, that although he could not entirely agree in the propriety of the measure recommended by his hon. and learned friend, yet he begged leave to tender him his most sincere thanks for having undertaken the investigation of so important and pressing a subject. It appeared to him, that in the Report, which reflected so much credit upon those concerned in drawing it up, one main reason of the increase of Poor-rates had been entirely overlooked. Whoever would trace the rise and progress of taxation, or the national debt, would find that it was regularly accompanied by a diminution of the prices of labour; and thus they would find the increase of Poor-rates accounted for. It was not his intention to enter int6M' the question at length upon: the present occasion but, when the fit opportunity
584583Mr. Calcraft
569 thanked the hon. mover for bringing forward this question, and giving him an opportunity Of saying a few words respecting the operation of these laws in that county of which he was a representative. He did not know what the learned gentleman meant, when he stated that a necessity existed for the continuance of these laws. He could not see that necessity; and he was therefore at a loss to see upon what ground the learned gentleman could vote for bills, which were disgraceful and insulting to the majority of the nation. He would not say that he would not, upon a case of extraordinary necessity being made out, vote for such bills; but he never did think that such a case had been made out by ministers. Would the learned gentleman say, that Scotland was in the year 1819 and in the year 1821, in the same state of tranquillity? The learned gentleman could not forget that the noble marquis and his supporters, in bringing forward these laws, had stated that there were regularly organised bodies opposed to the government; that they were trained to arms—that they marched with flags and banners—and that there were several thousands, both in England and Scotland, so openly opposed to the government, that it was necessary to have an additional number of troops—and that numbers of families in the country had been obliged to leave their homes, and seek protection in large towns. When the noble marquis had made these statements, in which he was confirmed by many hon. members, it was not wonderful that many gentlemen should think that a strong case had been made out, and that the measures had been called for; but the learned member could not have contended, that the same danger existed at the present moment, if he had not spoken under panic, and argued from generals to particulars. He could not conceive any two things more dissimilar than the state of the country in 1819 and in 1821; and when he could not be led to believe that a necessity which justified such an infraction of the rights and liberties of the subject existed in 1819, he could not be expected to alter that opinion in 1821, when the noble marquis who had then stated the necessity of these measures did not pretend to say, that it now existed. He re-
569Mr. Hutchinson
 said, he support 1819, because several meetings had occurred in that part of Scotland in which he resided, little calculated to promote the right of petition. He had also done so, because he knew that nine-tenths of his constituents approved of the measure, and because he wished to guard the people from such mischances as had occurred at Manchester. He certainly could not have given his consent to the measure, had the noble marquis persisted in proposing it as a permanent measure; but the noble marquis, on going to the vote, had met the wishes of himself and others, by making it only temporary. After such a compromise had taken place between them, he should consider himself guilty of a breach of faith to the noble marquis if he voted for the repeal of the Seditious Meeting bill, even though convinced that there was no longer any necessity for its existence. With regard to the Seditious and Blasphemous Libel law, he laboured under no such difficulty, and should vote for its repeal.Mr. Maxwell
587 observed, that although there were some parts of his hon. and learned friend's bill to which he should object if taken separately, yet to the whole united he had no objection whatever. On the contrary, he augured great good from its adoption, and thought it right to take an early occasion of bearing his testimony to the salutary effects of the act passed upon the proposition of the right hon. the member for Christchurch some years ago, especially in those dis-
587Mr. Philips
 said, he believed the disposition to excite the people to tumultuous meetings still existed in full force, and that nothing but the laws in question kept them down.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
564563 said, it did not appear to him that any grounds had been stated in support of the motion sufficient to induce the House to agree to it. It was said, that the bills proposed to be repealed, had been carried through by two classes in that House; that one had been influenced by hostility to the people, and the other by panic. He did not know in which class the hon. gentleman placed him, but he would leave it to those who knew him best, to judge, whether, upon any occasion, he had manifested hostility to the liberties of the people. If fear had any influence on his decision when those bills were before the House, he had not yet sufficiently recovered from it to vote for their repeal. Certain he was, that the state of the country called for them when they were passed. The hon. gentleman said, that they who opposed his motion were bound to shew that no inconvenience arose from these laws. Now, this principle he could not admit. Inconvenience was no ground for legislation. To establish sufficient cause for a repeal, it should have been proved that the evil produced was greater than the good. He could not allow what the hon. gentleman had said, in reference to the conduct of one of the judges of the King's-bench, to pass without notice. It appeared to him a most improper way of bringing such a subject before the House. If there was good ground for a charge, why not proceed against the learned judge in a constitutional mode? He would willingly submit his conduct to the most jealous investigation. He had known the hon. judge alluded to from early life, and he never knew a man of more tender and
564563Mr. Serjeant Onslow
 expressed his surprise that any apprehension should be entertained of the tendency of his hon. and learned friend's bill to create embarrassment in the law of settlement, as the great object of that bill was, to remove all difficulty and litigation with respect to that law. It had been observed that labour, instead of being paid in wages by employers, had been paid out of the Poor-rates. If so, why then should not the amount of such payment be deducted in fairness from those rates? This was one of the objects of his Hon. and learned friend's bill; because that bill, proposed to have the labourer paid in just wages by his employer, instead of having him transferred to the Poor-rates. The effect, indeed, of his hon. and learned friend's measure would be, to regulate the price, of labour by the demand, and that was the end peculiarly desired. With respect to the pressure of the taxes and the national debt upon the, poor, that pressure could not be disputed, especially as it took away from the rich the means of employing the poor: but he had no doubt, if the supply of labour were reduced below the demand, which was the purpose of his hon. and learned friend's measure, that the public debt and taxes would bear exclusively upon the rich, and the poor would be most materially benefitted.Mr. Ricardo
571 said, he was one of the few on his side of the House who voted that the bill should pass into a law. The reasons on which he had done so were perfectly satisfactory to his own mind; and their correctness had been proved by every thing that had since occurred. He had thought the conduct of the people at the time more injurious to the right of petitioning than any thing that had ever been known before, and therefore he had voted for the bill. He, for one, had never doubted that the Manchester meeting was illegal; but many respectable gentlemen had been of a contrary opinion. The question had, however, been set at rest at York; and he apprehended it could no longer be doubted that such meetings were illegal. But when he voted for the passing of that bill, thinking it necessary at the time, he did not bind himself to vote that it should continue in. force when its operation was no longer necessary. Circumstances that had occurred since it passed, had led him to the conclusion that it ought to be repealed. The conduct of the sheriffs under this law, though in some instances very creditable, had in others not been what it ought to have been; and meetings like that which had formerly taken place at Manchester, Birmingham, Sheffield, and other places, having been declared illegal by the decisions of courts of justice, he thought, in the present tranquil state of the country, there was no pretence for keeping this law in force. He should therefore give his vote in favour of the motion; but, at the same time, he regretted that it had been brought forward; for in the same way in which the people had endangered the right of petitioning by the mode in which they had formerly assembled to petition, he was of opinion that his hon. friend had injured the cause, of which he was the able advocate, by bringing forward the motion at the present moment. He wished him to consider in what situation, if the motion were not carried, they must stand, when this bill should expire. Could his hon. friend persuade himself that its failure would not furnish ministers with arguments in favour renewal? "Look," they would say, "at the proceedings of 1821. Where were the meetings—where were the disturbances to be complained of then? Yet the House, though the subject was brought before them, refused to repeal this law in that year, and thus it
571Mr. Abercromby
 felt it his duty to make a remark upon the proposition of the hon. and learned gentleman, not to allow parish relief except to the sick and infirm. In the large town which he represented, one-half of the manufacturers had at one time been thrown out of employ; and that not from a combination of the masters, but from the uncertainty of trade. They had, in consequence, suffered severe distress; and what would have been their situation, had such a bill as the one now proposed then been in operation?Mr. Mansfield
 said, that though, in their debates, they reprobated the principle of an agrarian law or of Spencean justice, yet, in acts of parliament, they had absolutely adopted that principle; for gentlemen of landed property were the nominal owners of the land, while the rents and profits silently found their way into the hands of the parish officers, to be distributed to the poor. The system of our Poor-rates were extremely objectionable. They degraded the poor man, because he received that in the shape of alms, which ought to be given to him in the more creditable shape of wages. But, though the system was objectionable, he was not prepared to abridge the poor of that assistance which they had hitherto received. He traced the great amount of the Poor-rates to excessive taxation; and before he abridged the rights of the poor, he must see a repeal of the malt-tax, and of the salt-tax, and, above all, he demanded in their name a repeal of the obnoxious Corn bill.Mr. Monck
589 observed, that in calling the attention of the House to the present state of the Bankruptcy Laws, he had to remind those gentlemen who sat in the last parliament, that the measure which he had now to propose, was not altogether new. A bill containing nearly the same provisions as that which he should have the honour to move for leave to introduce, he had before submitted to the? House, and it had met with its approbation. It had, however, failed of success in the other House. In bringing it once more under consideration, he should not deem it necessary, at this stage of the proceeding, to go into a minute exposition of all its parts. He would refer shortly to one or two of its principal objects, and state the more important evils which
589Mr. John Smith
 highly eulogised the principle and tendency of his hon. and learned friend's proposition, which he had no doubt would be productive of great good. He considered that the real evil of the Poor-laws arose out of the question of settlements. The litigation and expense occasioned by the disputes upon this question were beyond the conception of those who had not been concerned in them.Mr. M. A. Taylor
 rose to reply. He said he did not entertain any sanguine hopes of the success of his motion, for he had seen nothing in the conduct of ministers which could lead him to expect that they would display the slightest leniency to the people. He had, however, made it in order to show the inhabitants of England that there were still some men in the House who regarded their interests, and who wished to restore them to such portions of their birthrights as they had been unjustly deprived of. He had expected to hear something new from the defenders of these bills; but in this he had been disappointed. Not a single hint had been made as to the existence of any secret conspiracy, nor had any letter been read from any of the anonymous correspondents of the secretary of state, who, on a former occasion, had spread terror and dismay throughout the whole of his department. He thought that the very omission gave him an additional reason for asserting that the bill ought to be repealed.Mr. Lennard
562561560559558557556555554 rose for the purpose of calling the attention of the House to the consideration of two acts of the last parliament—the one intituled, "An Act for more effectually preventing Seditious Meetings and Assemblies;" the other "An Act for the more effectual Prevention and Punishment of blasphemous and seditious Libels;"—two acts, perhaps, the most important in their consequences and the most fatal in their effects on the vital principles of the constitution, of any that had been passed since the just expulsion of the house of Stuart from the government of these realms;—acts, between which an odious rivalry in the power of mischief might be said to exist. In performing the task which he had allotted to himself, he trusted, when his inexperience in the House was considered, that he should meet with the indulgence which was so often shown to persons placed in similar situations. If he could show that the constitution had been infringed by these measures, that important rights of the people had been taken away, and that restraints as unjust as unnecessary had been imposed, his pur-
562561560559558557556555554Mr. Lennard
568ex-parte567566565 said, that having through the whole progress of these bills done all in his power to oppose them, though without effect, he felt obliged to his hon. friend for bringing forward this motion, as it gave him an opportunity of stating that his opinions upon the subject remained unchanged. He maintained that these bills were an innovation on the constitution, and it was for those members who wished them to be continued, to point out the necessity for their further existence. He denied that there had ever existed any necessity for the enactment of such measures. Whatever might have been the excesses committed, the ancient law of the land was sufficient to repress or punish them. If this was not the case, then our ancestors had gone on in the dark, and their errors had only been discovered by the new lights thrown upon the country by the bills of 1819. Where was it found that the ancient law was insufficient to preserve public tranquillity? Was it to be argued, that the proceedings which took place at the memorable Manchester meeting required the enactment of a new law? What greater power could any magistrate require, than that exercised by the Manchester magistrates on that occasion? The House had there the example of a peaceable meeting, assembled for a constitutional purpose, dispersed and routed by a military force—and that, too, without any warning or notice, and while they were receiving from their leader the strictest injunctions to demean themselves quietly. Was that act of the Manchester magistrates legal, or was it not? IP it was not legal, then both the House and the country had been grossly deceived; but if it was legal, where, he would ask, was the necessity of enacting any new law to preserve the country from the dangers arising from public meetings? Not only had that meeting been dispersed, but the persons who called it had been
568ex-parte567566565Mr. Denman
572 said, he could not agree to allow a law to remain in force, by which an individual might be exiled for that which a jury, under particular circumstances, might regard as a libel tending to overthrow the government of the country. He had heard that bill introduced with horror, but the circumstances under which it was proposed were no longer in existence. The blasphemous and seditious press, as it had been called, had been completely put down, not under these bills, but under the old law, as it ought to have been in the first instance. The worst of those libels which had been suffered to inundate the country for so long a period, had been proved to have been sent forth by spies and agents, as it should
572Mr. Denman
553Courier said, that having been personally alluded to by the hon. member, he felt it due to his own feelings, and but justice to the character of the hon. member to declare, that the comments in the paper which he had read, upon the article in the 553CourierMr. Mackenzie
586585 said, he considered it as a matter of congratulation to himself and to the House, that this subject had been taken up by so able and competent a mind as that of the hon. and learned gentleman by whom it had now been brought forward. The propositions which the hon. and learned gentleman had submitted to the House were not new to it. With respect to the first point proposed by the hon. and learned gentleman, namely, that of a maximum, it had been brought under the notice of a committee by a gentleman to whose opinion great deference was paid. He, in common with many others, was, in the first instance, startled at such a proposition; and, in drawing up the report, pains were taken to place it in the clearest point of view. Reference was made to its having already been acted on as a local provision. The Isle of Wight, the place where the experiment was tried, was eminently calculated to give it every fair chance of success.
586585Mr. Sturges Bourne
582581s.d.s.580579d.s.s.578maximum.maximum577l.l.l.l.l.l.576l.l.à priori575à priori574 said, that as a short delay would be of no material importance, he would consult the pleasure of the House, and open the subject now, or postpone it until a future evening. [Cries of "Go on, go on."] As such seemed to be the will of the House, he would proceed, as shortly as the nature of the subject would admit, to state the grounds of the amendments which he wished to make in the laws relating to the poor. Aware of the vast importance of the subject—aware that one of greater importance could not be brought under the consideration of the House, he perhaps ought to apologize that so humble an individual as himself should intrude it upon their attention. It was with some difficulty that he could persuade himself to offer a proposition for altering the poor laws that had not previously received the sanction of the government of the day. Had he thought that such a measure, or any thing like such a measure as he had to propose, would have been originated by ministers, lie would have been the last person in the House to anticipate their intentions by bringing this measure forward. He would go further and say, that if he had had any reason to believe, that the body of gentlemen who formed the committee appointed some years ago, to inquire into that subject, had entertained any design of bringing forward, the measures of which they then suggested the outline in their valuable report, he should have felt it his duty to leave the business in their hands. But, understanding from some who were Members of that committee, that they had no such intention, he ventured to take it upon himself, from a deep and solid con-
582581s.d.s.580579d.s.s.578maximum.maximum577l.l.l.l.l.l.576l.l.à priori575à priori574Mr. Scarlett
588 then brought in the bill. In moving the first reading, he said he wished to make a few observations upon the, remarks of his gallant friend. When his gallant friend stated, that the object of the bill was to abridge the rights, of the poor,' he stated that which was not the fact, and that which must have been founded in an entire misunderstanding of what had fallen from him. The object of the bill was, to increase the independence and to improve the condition of the poor of this country; and if it had, as his gallant
588Mr. Scarlett
 said, that though he acknowledged the good intentions of his hon. and learned friend, he must deprecate any proposition to take from the unemployed industrious poor a subsistence to which they had just the same right as every gentleman had to his estate. If the Poor-rates were oppressive, let a reduction of taxation be first tried, before they attempted to alter the law of the land.Sir R. Wilson
 said, that as no case had been made out by ministers in favour of the laws sought to be repealed, he should feel it his duty to vote for the motion.Sir J. Newport
590—What is your name?—Robert Thomas Weaver.590By Mr. Speaker.
592591—Who was the person who gave you that paragraph?—that paragraph was not given to me.592591By Mr. Bennet.
—In whose name is the house hired which serves as the office of the paper?—The principal office is that of Messrs. Shackle and Arrowsmith, but since the commencement of the paper an adjoining house has been taken.By Mr. M. A. Taylor.
593—You have stated that you receive the profits to account hereafter to Mr. Arrowsmith, what is the na-
593By Mr. Bennet
594—Did you ever inquire of any of the compositors from whom he received the paragraph in question?—I did not.594By Mr. Wynn.
—Do you keep any clerk?—I do not.By Sir R. Wilson.
—Who examines the proof sheets?—Sometimes I do: sometimes the reader.By Mr. M. A. Taylor.
597—Is the gentleman who was with Mr. Cooper to-day, and who prevented your communicating to Mr.
597By Mr. Bernal.
—Is it part of the reader's duty to examine the proof sheet; and if so did he not read the paragraph in question?—The reading boy reads the manuscript, and the reader examines the proof.By a Member.
—By whom is the manuscript put into the hands of the reading boy?—By the compositor.By Mr. W. Smith.
 said, that as no evidence bad been obtained from this man as to the author of the paragraph, and as that was the object of his inquiry, he must move that other evidence be brought to the bar. He did not think the witness entitled to much lenience from the evidence he had given, but he wished to do no more than detain him until those persons had been called from whom more satisfactory information might be derived. He would therefore move, "That Thomas Arrow-smith, William Shackle, and Henry Cooper do attend this House forthwith."Mr. Bennet
 defended the lord chancellor from any imputation of neglect. That distinguished personage was not responsible for the delay which had occurred. The right hon. baronet complained of the expense of the commission; but was there any novelty in that? There was good ground, perhaps, for the commission into the Irish courts; but certainly nothing had resulted from the extension of the inquiry to the English courts which justified the expense of the undertaking.Mr. B. Bathurst
602 expressed his surprise at the right hon. gentleman's view of the duties of government; for, according to that notion, there was nobody to take cognizance of a report framed by a commission under the orders of that House. As to the manner in which the inquiries had been conducted, he should only say, that nothing very sanguine could be hoped from an investigation carried on through
602Mr. Baring
601 rose to defend the conduct of the commissioners, who, he said, had been unremitting in their exertions, and deserved the applause and gratitude of their country. One reason which the right hon. baronet had for finding fault with them was that they had only laid four reports upon the table. It was true, that a greater number of reports had been made by the commissioners appointed to inquire into the state of the courts of justice in Ireland; but though eight reports had been made by them, and only four by the English commissioners, the English commissioners had, independently of the greater research which they had displayed, done more in point of fact than the Irish, their four reports containing 586 pages, and the reports of the Irish containing only 400 pages of printed matter. The commissioners had not had power to enforce the making of certain returns from the offices of the Exchequer; but surely no reasonable man would impute that circumstance as a matter of blame to them. He defended the lord chancellor from the charges which had been made against him, and asked, whether it was to be expected that that learned and illustrious person was to postpone all his other engagements to examine into the matters referred to him by this commission? With regard to certain of the reports not having been sent to the judges of the King's-bench and the Common-pleas, he begged leave to inform the House, that according to the words of the commission itself, the reports were to be returned to the petty bag office, and that it was not therefore the duty of the commissioners to transmit them to the judges. The secretary of state was the person who ought to have forwarded the reports to those learned persons; but? he had failed to do so, from an idea that they had been sent to them from some other quarter. He could assure the right hon. baronet, that there was no reluctance any of the courts to correct abuse, where abuse was proved to exist. It was unfair
601The Attorney General
623, in rising to second the motion of the noble lord, assured the House that he was an enemy to radical reform, whether in the shape of annual parliaments and universal suffrage, or in that milder form of it which proposed to give the right of voting to inhabitant, householders; because it appeared to; him to aim at the total overthrow of that constitution, which had raised this country to a pitch of glory, unexampled in ancient and modern history. The elements of insecurity were so mixed up with the fabric of radical reform, that instead of amending any part of the superstructure of the constitution, it was calculated to throw the whole superstructure down. But, while he objected to radical reform, because it would tend to make that House purely and entirely democratical, he was a friend to a mode? rate and rational reform, and he supported the resolutions of the noble lord, because he thought they were calculated to attain that object; and that the noble lard's plan would be found capable of a safe and easy execution. Great changes had taken place among the people since the House had been constituted as it then was; and a change was therefore necessary in order to make the House suited
623Mr. Whitmore
624l.l. rose; but the noise was be excessive, that for several minutes it was impossible to hear him. He said, he thought the remedy should be considered distinctly from the grievance. He had no objection to the principle of disfranchisement, in cases similar to that of Grampound. He understood the noble lord to propose, in some cases, the disfranchisement of boroughs, although no corruption might be proved. In order to justify this measure, it was necessary for the noble lord to show that the House, in its present state, was inadequate to its purposes. Now, there was no ground for supposing, that by an alteration of the constitution, we should see any increase in the number of popular members. The House, with all its alleged abuses, was perfectly competent to discharge all its functions. The noble lord had stated, that parliament, as it was constituted, could not go on for any length of time. It was however obvious, that parliament in the state it then was, had carried the country through difficulties and dangers never exceeded in the annals of any country in the world. Supposing the elective franchise extended to persons holding property of the value of 10624l.l.Mr. Bathurst
4. "That it be referred to the same committee, to consider further of a mode of proceeding with respect to any boroughs which may hereafter be charged with notorious bribery and corruption, in order that such charges may be regularly and effectually inquired into, and, if proved, that such boroughs may be disabled from sending burgesses to serve in parliament for the future."3. "That a select committee be appointed to consider to what places, according to the principle of the foregoing resolution, it may be advisable to extend the right of returning members to serve in parliament, and of the best method of effecting that measure, without an inconvenient addition to the members of this House.2 "That, in order to strengthen and maintain the necessary connexion between the Commons of this kingdom and their representatives in parliament, it is expedient to give to such places as are greatly increased in wealth and population, and are not at present adequately represented, the right of returning members to serve in parliament.6221. "That grievous complaints are made in the kingdom, and manifestly appear to be true, of undue elections of members to serve as burgesses in parliament, by gross bribery and corruption, contrary to the laws, and in violation of the freedom due to the election of representatives for the Commons of England in parliament, to the great scandal of the kingdom, dishonourable, and may be destructive, to the constitution of parliaments.
4. "That it be referred to the same committee, to consider further of a mode of proceeding with respect to any boroughs which may hereafter be charged with notorious bribery and corruption, in order that such charges may be regularly and effectually inquired into, and, if proved, that such boroughs may be disabled from sending burgesses to serve in parliament for the future."3. "That a select committee be appointed to consider to what places, according to the principle of the foregoing resolution, it may be advisable to extend the right of returning members to serve in parliament, and of the best method of effecting that measure, without an inconvenient addition to the members of this House.2 "That, in order to strengthen and maintain the necessary connexion between the Commons of this kingdom and their representatives in parliament, it is expedient to give to such places as are greatly increased in wealth and population, and are not at present adequately represented, the right of returning members to serve in parliament.6221. "That grievous complaints are made in the kingdom, and manifestly appear to be true, of undue elections of members to serve as burgesses in parliament, by gross bribery and corruption, contrary to the laws, and in violation of the freedom due to the election of representatives for the Commons of England in parliament, to the great scandal of the kingdom, dishonourable, and may be destructive, to the constitution of parliaments.621620l.619618617616615614613l.l.612611610l.609608l.l.l.607606605 rose to make his promised motion. He said that although some circumstances had occurred in that House a short time ago, which were discouraging to any person who meant to bring forward propositions respecting reform, yet he was bold enough to say that he felt a considerable degree of confidence in proposing the measure which he would that night submit to the House. At the same time, he was by no means blind to the difficulties and the importance of the task he had undertaken. If it was true, as it undoubtedly was, that all governments depended ultimately upon opinion, it was no less true, that the government of England depended upon an opinion vigilant and enlightened, to a degree of which history, gave no example. Above all, the eyes of the country were directed, in a peculiar manner, to that House. The people looked, as it were, with a microscope at all their acts, and seemed to consider a vote of even a thousand pounds in the course of the public expenditure as a test by which the honesty of their intentions might be tried and appreciated. Instead of viewing them with any of that superstitious reverence which authority formerly created—that sort of reverence which veiled in mystery all the acts of government—a disposition existed which went rather to deny them even those advantages which must inevitably be acquired by habits of business, and to refuse them credit for that superiority, which experience and the custom of deciding on great questions of state tend so manifestly to produce. But of all the subjects which could be brought forward in parliament, the most, serious were those which related to the constitution of that House, because they operated in a particular manner, and were considered, in a peculiar degree, as tests of the disposition of the House to conduct the affairs of the country with integrity, and with a proper affection
4. "That it be referred to the same committee, to consider further of a mode of proceeding with respect to any boroughs which may hereafter be charged with notorious bribery and corruption, in order that such charges may be regularly and effectually inquired into, and, if proved, that such boroughs may be disabled from sending burgesses to serve in parliament for the future."3. "That a select committee be appointed to consider to what places, according to the principle of the foregoing resolution, it may be advisable to extend the right of returning members to serve in parliament, and of the best method of effecting that measure, without an inconvenient addition to the members of this House.2 "That, in order to strengthen and maintain the necessary connexion between the Commons of this kingdom and their representatives in parliament, it is expedient to give to such places as are greatly increased in wealth and population, and are not at present adequately represented, the right of returning members to serve in parliament.6221. "That grievous complaints are made in the kingdom, and manifestly appear to be true, of undue elections of members to serve as burgesses in parliament, by gross bribery and corruption, contrary to the laws, and in violation of the freedom due to the election of representatives for the Commons of England in parliament, to the great scandal of the kingdom, dishonourable, and may be destructive, to the constitution of parliaments.
4. "That it be referred to the same committee, to consider further of a mode of proceeding with respect to any boroughs which may hereafter be charged with notorious bribery and corruption, in order that such charges may be regularly and effectually inquired into, and, if proved, that such boroughs may be disabled from sending burgesses to serve in parliament for the future."3. "That a select committee be appointed to consider to what places, according to the principle of the foregoing resolution, it may be advisable to extend the right of returning members to serve in parliament, and of the best method of effecting that measure, without an inconvenient addition to the members of this House.2 "That, in order to strengthen and maintain the necessary connexion between the Commons of this kingdom and their representatives in parliament, it is expedient to give to such places as are greatly increased in wealth and population, and are not at present adequately represented, the right of returning members to serve in parliament.6221. "That grievous complaints are made in the kingdom, and manifestly appear to be true, of undue elections of members to serve as burgesses in parliament, by gross bribery and corruption, contrary to the laws, and in violation of the freedom due to the election of representatives for the Commons of England in parliament, to the great scandal of the kingdom, dishonourable, and may be destructive, to the constitution of parliaments.621620l.619618617616615614613l.l.612611610l.609608l.l.l.607606605Lord John Russell
 saw no reason for the strictures which had been passed upon the commissioners, nor could he understand how the inquiry could have been conducted, except by the examination of the officers in the respective courts.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
595—You have spoken, of an agreement between Mr. Arrowsmith and yourself. Do you recollect at what time and where that agreement was concluded?—About seven weeks, ago a£ the office. I cannot exactly say.595By Lord Nugent.
—Do you mean to say that you never communicated with the editor by letter or note?—All my communications with the editor have been verbal.By Lord Nugent.
596—Is there any person in the office authorised to give insertion to such paragraphs as may arrive after you and the editor have left it?—There is no person so authorized, but it is done sometimes when we are out of the way.596By Lord Nugent.
gravamen said, the gravamenMr. Abercromby
 said, that the inhabitants of the county which he represented, if ho excepted those who held places or received pensions, were unanimously of opinion that reform was necessary.Mr. Curwen
 denied that it was necessary to have masters in chancery on the commission. Four gentlemen inquired into the abuses of the court of Chancery of Ireland, none of whom were masters, yet the result of their labours had been most satisfactory and advantageous.Sir. Warre
 hoped, as the borough of Stockbridge, Which he represented, had been alluded to by the noble lord as an instance of gross corruption, he might be permitted to say a few words. He knew that 130 years since, complaints of that; nature bad been made; but, from, some cause or other, it had not been disfranchised. That borough was now pure, and there was not a greater share of independence in any city or county than at present existed in the borough of Stock-bridge. He came down to the House to support the resolution, and the noble lord would not find any one more zealous in doing it than himself. Should the plan of the noble lord be agreed to, the state of all the boroughs would be brought under the notice of the committee; and, in that case, he had no objection that Stockbridge should be placed first on the list.Mr. Barham
—Did the extra hands whom you have mentioned ever insert a paragraph without your permission or that of the editor?—It is possible they may have done so.By Dr. Phillimore.
604 presented a Petition from the bankers, merchants, and other inhabitants of Carlisle, praying for Retrenchment and Reform. He expressed his, regret that that House had pertinaciously resisted every attempt to introduce a system of economy arid retrenchment. Instead pf being the friends arid supporters of the people, they seemed to be of no other use but to assist the executive government in imposing restraints and burthens on the country. Whether gentlemen would look to the preservation of their own property, and, while assisting themselves, save the public money, he could not tell; but he felt that until the people obtained a reform in parliament—and that they would eventually obtain it he had no doubt—the country could not hope for permanent prosperity. While he had a seat in that House, he would endeavour to procure a restoration of those rights which had been bartered away for power and emolument. If retrenchment and reform were not conceded, the government, he was convinced, would, be changed by violence. How much wiser would it be to do something for the people, to prove up them that their complaints had hot been made in vain. Those who sat on his side of the House, were told that they agreed on no precise plan of reform. That perhaps was true; but it was likewise true that they all agreed that some reform was necessary. Every man who did not live on the takes was assured of that. Any
604Mr. James
 having read the first resolution, there was a loud cry of "Strangers, withdraw;" and the gallery was nearly cleared for a division.The Speaker
—You have said that Mr. Cooper is the editor—doyou mean to say that he is the exclusive editor, or that he divides the duty with you?—I take no part as editor.By Mr. Scarlett.
—Was any money received for the printing of that paragraph?—As far as I am concerned, I can say not.By Mr. Scarlett.
, in reply, said, that when he had moved the address he had done all that was necessary on his part. It then became the duty of government to carry the object of the address into effect. The right hon. gentleman had argued that government had no right to interfere. But what said the commissioners? They stated that they had performed the duty allotted to them, and they recommended certain measures to his majesty for adoption. Now, who was to carry those recommendations into effect except his majesty's government? The address which he had moved was a general one, referring to all the courts of justice in the united kingdom. And why was it general? Because he was unwilling to appear invidious by selecting any particular court. He was determined to place his resolutions on the journals, because, in other cases, when resolutions proposed by him had been negatived, he had found that their principle was recognized several years afterwards, in consequence of their being placed on the journals.Sir J. Newport
6005. "That this House views with extreme regret the slowness in its progress of a commission instituted for such important objects, and prosecuted at considerable public expense; the obstructions which the commissioners appear to experience in their inquiries, from the reluctance manifested by some of the officers of the court of Exchequer to deliver the returns called for, and to facilitate the execution of the commission, as detailed by the commissioners; the very protracted period of time to which the consideration of some of the measures recommended for regulation of
6004."That the chief justices of the King's-bench and Common-pleas, in their several statements of the 5th and 6th of March last, acquaint the secretary of state, that their lordships attention had not been in any manner called to the recommendations contained in the reports on their courts, nor had those reports been officially made known to them; which reports had been delivered in by the commissioners, on the 5th Jan. 1818 and the 3rd July 1819, to the office under the control of the secretary of state for the home department.3. "That it appears, by the statement of the lord chancellor to the secretary of state for the home department, on the 17th March last, that his lordship has adopted some measures, as detailed in that statement, for carrying into effect some of the recommendations contained in the report of the commissioners upon the court of Chancery; and that, in other instances, those recommendations appear to his lordship to require much further consideration, to which consideration (with the advice and assistance of the master of the rolls, and eventually of others of the judges) his lordship now- proposes, at the expiration of five years from the period of its delivery, to submit the whole of, the report.2."That the commissioners have delivered in four reports; the first, on the court of Chancery, 9th April 1816; the second, a very small supplementary report on the same court, 20th Dec. 1817; the third, on the King's-bench, 5th Jan. 1818; and the fourth, on the court of Common-pleas, 3rd July 1819.l.l.599l.1. "That it appears, from returns laid before this House, that the commission to inquire into the state of the English courts of justice, appointed by his majesty on the 9th February 1815, in compliance with their address of the 28th of June 1814, was composed of five commissioners, two of whom were masters in chancery; and that they have been compensated for their services by an annual payment pf 1,200l.l.599l.
6005. "That this House views with extreme regret the slowness in its progress of a commission instituted for such important objects, and prosecuted at considerable public expense; the obstructions which the commissioners appear to experience in their inquiries, from the reluctance manifested by some of the officers of the court of Exchequer to deliver the returns called for, and to facilitate the execution of the commission, as detailed by the commissioners; the very protracted period of time to which the consideration of some of the measures recommended for regulation of
6004."That the chief justices of the King's-bench and Common-pleas, in their several statements of the 5th and 6th of March last, acquaint the secretary of state, that their lordships attention had not been in any manner called to the recommendations contained in the reports on their courts, nor had those reports been officially made known to them; which reports had been delivered in by the commissioners, on the 5th Jan. 1818 and the 3rd July 1819, to the office under the control of the secretary of state for the home department.3. "That it appears, by the statement of the lord chancellor to the secretary of state for the home department, on the 17th March last, that his lordship has adopted some measures, as detailed in that statement, for carrying into effect some of the recommendations contained in the report of the commissioners upon the court of Chancery; and that, in other instances, those recommendations appear to his lordship to require much further consideration, to which consideration (with the advice and assistance of the master of the rolls, and eventually of others of the judges) his lordship now- proposes, at the expiration of five years from the period of its delivery, to submit the whole of, the report.2."That the commissioners have delivered in four reports; the first, on the court of Chancery, 9th April 1816; the second, a very small supplementary report on the same court, 20th Dec. 1817; the third, on the King's-bench, 5th Jan. 1818; and the fourth, on the court of Common-pleas, 3rd July 1819.l.l.599l.1. "That it appears, from returns laid before this House, that the commission to inquire into the state of the English courts of justice, appointed by his majesty on the 9th February 1815, in compliance with their address of the 28th of June 1814, was composed of five commissioners, two of whom were masters in chancery; and that they have been compensated for their services by an annual payment pf 1,200l.l.599l.l.l.l.l. rose to bring forward his motion upon this subject. He proceeded to explain the circumstances which induced him to bring this question before the House, and pointed out in strong terms the great delay which had taken place since the appointment of the commissioners in 1815. Those commissioners, five in number (two of whom were masters in chancery) had since their appointment received a salary of 1,2006005. "That this House views with extreme regret the slowness in its progress of a commission instituted for such important objects, and prosecuted at considerable public expense; the obstructions which the commissioners appear to experience in their inquiries, from the reluctance manifested by some of the officers of the court of Exchequer to deliver the returns called for, and to facilitate the execution of the commission, as detailed by the commissioners; the very protracted period of time to which the consideration of some of the measures recommended for regulation of
6004."That the chief justices of the King's-bench and Common-pleas, in their several statements of the 5th and 6th of March last, acquaint the secretary of state, that their lordships attention had not been in any manner called to the recommendations contained in the reports on their courts, nor had those reports been officially made known to them; which reports had been delivered in by the commissioners, on the 5th Jan. 1818 and the 3rd July 1819, to the office under the control of the secretary of state for the home department.3. "That it appears, by the statement of the lord chancellor to the secretary of state for the home department, on the 17th March last, that his lordship has adopted some measures, as detailed in that statement, for carrying into effect some of the recommendations contained in the report of the commissioners upon the court of Chancery; and that, in other instances, those recommendations appear to his lordship to require much further consideration, to which consideration (with the advice and assistance of the master of the rolls, and eventually of others of the judges) his lordship now- proposes, at the expiration of five years from the period of its delivery, to submit the whole of, the report.2."That the commissioners have delivered in four reports; the first, on the court of Chancery, 9th April 1816; the second, a very small supplementary report on the same court, 20th Dec. 1817; the third, on the King's-bench, 5th Jan. 1818; and the fourth, on the court of Common-pleas, 3rd July 1819.l.l.599l.1. "That it appears, from returns laid before this House, that the commission to inquire into the state of the English courts of justice, appointed by his majesty on the 9th February 1815, in compliance with their address of the 28th of June 1814, was composed of five commissioners, two of whom were masters in chancery; and that they have been compensated for their services by an annual payment pf 1,200l.l.599l.
6005. "That this House views with extreme regret the slowness in its progress of a commission instituted for such important objects, and prosecuted at considerable public expense; the obstructions which the commissioners appear to experience in their inquiries, from the reluctance manifested by some of the officers of the court of Exchequer to deliver the returns called for, and to facilitate the execution of the commission, as detailed by the commissioners; the very protracted period of time to which the consideration of some of the measures recommended for regulation of
6004."That the chief justices of the King's-bench and Common-pleas, in their several statements of the 5th and 6th of March last, acquaint the secretary of state, that their lordships attention had not been in any manner called to the recommendations contained in the reports on their courts, nor had those reports been officially made known to them; which reports had been delivered in by the commissioners, on the 5th Jan. 1818 and the 3rd July 1819, to the office under the control of the secretary of state for the home department.3. "That it appears, by the statement of the lord chancellor to the secretary of state for the home department, on the 17th March last, that his lordship has adopted some measures, as detailed in that statement, for carrying into effect some of the recommendations contained in the report of the commissioners upon the court of Chancery; and that, in other instances, those recommendations appear to his lordship to require much further consideration, to which consideration (with the advice and assistance of the master of the rolls, and eventually of others of the judges) his lordship now- proposes, at the expiration of five years from the period of its delivery, to submit the whole of, the report.2."That the commissioners have delivered in four reports; the first, on the court of Chancery, 9th April 1816; the second, a very small supplementary report on the same court, 20th Dec. 1817; the third, on the King's-bench, 5th Jan. 1818; and the fourth, on the court of Common-pleas, 3rd July 1819.l.l.599l.1. "That it appears, from returns laid before this House, that the commission to inquire into the state of the English courts of justice, appointed by his majesty on the 9th February 1815, in compliance with their address of the 28th of June 1814, was composed of five commissioners, two of whom were masters in chancery; and that they have been compensated for their services by an annual payment pf 1,200l.l.599l.l.l.l.l.Sir J. Newport
634—Are you the proprietor of the newspaper called the "John Bull?"—I am not.634By Mr. Bennet.
635—Was there no agreement between you and Weaver as to the sum of money on the first commounication?—None.635By Mr. Robert Smith.
—How came it that you made so strange an agreement as you stated?—We started the paper, and risked the consequences.By Mr. Smith.
—Have you ever paid any thing on account of the profits to Weaver?—Never.By Mr. Wynn.
636—Did you ever, after your having given it to Weaver, exercise any control over the articles inserted in the paper?—No; every thing was left to Mr. Cooper.636By Mr. Bennet.
—When did you first hear that Weaver was ordered to attend this House?—About ten yesterday.By Sir R. Fergusson.
638637—Are you the proprietor of the paper called the "John Bull?" —Not now.638637By Mr. Bennet.
—If a loss should accrue on the paper, on whom would it fall?—On Mr. Weaver.By Mr. Robert Smith.
—Has Mr. Weaver been employed by you for any other purpose than in printing "John Bull?" — I do not employ Mr. Weaver in printing "John Bull."By Sir R. Fergusson.
641—, Are you the editor of the Sunday paper called "John Bull?" —I am.641By Mr. Bennet.
642—Was the paragraph in question written in your own handwriting?—The greater part of it was.642By Sir R. Fergusson.
643—Was any body present at the time you told Mr. Shackle and Mr. Arrowsmith that you intended to avow yourself the author of the paragraph?—Nobody.643By Mr. Macdonald.
644 said, they had now arrived at the close of the examination into a subject, the necessity for bringing which forward no one regretted more than himself; although he had felt that he could not, in the discharge of that duty which every man owed to his own character and to the House, abstain from doing so. The House had now had before it, the printer, proprietor, publisher, and editor of the paper; the latter of whom had avowed himself the author of the paragraph in question. He would say nothing of the falsehood displayed, of the perjury exhibited, of the shameful evidence given by these mere creatures of straw, in the disgraceful exhibition which the House had witnessed. Nor would he say any thing of the character of the paper with which they were connected. Its merits (if he might use the expression) were well known to the whole country; and there was but one opinion among honourable minds, namely, that it could receive its support only from persons of the basest, vilest, and most infamous nature. He repeated it, that let those persons be whom they might, they could be none but the basest and lowest of their species. It was those by whom such a publication
644Mr. Bennet
645 assured the hon. member, that no one regretted more than he did the breach of privilege
645The Marquis of Londonderry
instanter646 said, that unquestionably if it required time for further consideration to dispose of the motion, he would not dispute that the discussion ought to be adjourned. But he thought it due to the House to state, that he was prepared to meet the question for directing the attorney-general to prosecute with an imme-
instanter646Mr. Wynn
 said, he might hold particular opinions, and differ from most of his friends upon this occasion; but he should be sorry to employ against these individuals those powers which he had denounced as improper when exercised against others. He had made his proposition under the idea that it was the most lenient measure which could be adopted towards the offending parties.Mr. Bennet
649 said, that in the exercise of the power of commitment, which the House claimed as its undoubted right and privilege, he had on former occasions differed most widely in opinion from a large majority of it; and the more he considered the matter, the more was he convinced, that the House seldom interfered in questions of privilege without reducing itself to some awkward dilemma or another. He fully coincided in opinion with the noble marquis, that it was impossible for the House to agree to the institution of a prosecution by the attorney-general against these individuals, after having sifted and examined them in the most inquisitorial manner, by a process which, at the very best, was equivocal, and which would be most unjust and intolerable, if it were to send them for trial to a jury with a decision of that House against them, and with sufficient evidence taken from their own mouths to substantiate their guilt. This appeared to him to be an insuperable objection to the mode of proceeding proposed by the hon. member for Shrewsbury; but, in addition to this, he had another, which he would shortly submit to their consideration. The advocates of that mode of proceeding were not consistent with themselves in proposing to order the attorney-general to prosecute. The attorney-general, he begged leave to remind them, was not an officer under the orders of the House: he was an officer of the Crown; and, being such, should they wish him to prosecute, they ought to commence by proposing an address to his majesty—which he was of opinion they would think highly objectionable—that he would give directions to that officer to institute a certain prosecution in defence of the privileges of the* Commons of England. Besides, the distinction between privilege and power was this—that privilege was a shield of defence against power, and that power was a. weapon of attack upon the rights of others.649Sir Francis Burdett
 suggested, that if the case were to go before a jury, it would be highly improper to print the minutes of evidence. If the House should be of opinion that no adjournment was necessary —and that was his own opinion—he did not think that any doubt could exist as to what it was requisite to do with the editor of the paper. After they had disposed of him, the House could adjourn the debate regarding the proceedings against the others. If the noble lord would withdraw his amendment, he should have no objection to propose that Henry Cooper be committed to Newgate.Mr. Baring
 submitted to the House and to the hon. mover, whether the real character of the House was not likely to suffer by seeking to support its privileges against such mere men of straw as had just appeared at their bar. Malevolence and misrepresentation was the price which every member was obliged to pay for his seat in that House. He therefore entreated the House to consider whether the exercise of its privileges by commitment would not appear extremely questionable to the great majority of the people, when put in force against such creatures. For himself, he believed there was not a single provision in any of the six acts against which certain gentlemen opposite had declaimed so much, so odious to the nation as was the questionable power of committal for breaches of privilege.Mr. Wodehouse
 conceived the paragraph complained of to be a gross breach of the privileges both of the House and of the people, and returned his sincere thanks to the hon. member for having brought it before the notice of the House. The paper which contained it had, for some time past, been dealing forth its malignity, in a manner which was disgraceful to the press, injurious to morality, and inconsistent with the existence of society. He had himself felt disagreeably situated from the misrepresentations of other prints, and had frequently been, on the point of bringing them under the notice of parliament. If he had abstained from so doing, it was from the sovereign contempt in which he held every thing that could fall from the editors of them. If an inquiry were to be proposed into the general state of the press, which had grown up into a fearful engine of mighty mischief, he should have no objection to support it. In saying this, he did not mean to deny that the press had also been productive of great practical benefit; and yet, unwilling as he was to trench upon its general liberty, he could not shut his eyes against the dangers which its licentiousness was calculated to create. With regard to the point, whether the debate should be adjourned till to-morrow, or finished that evening, he felt perfectly indifferent. If, however, the dignity of the House was to be considered, he thought it would be better to meet the question at once. Having had the parties before them, and heard their repeated prevarications, he thought the sooner they proceeded against the person who had avowed himself the author, the more they would consult their honour and true dignity.Sir T. Lethbridge
l.bonusl.bonus.l. said, it he understood the bill correctly, if was to enable the company of the Bank of Ireland to increase their capital to a certain extent, and to allow a greater number of individuals to embark in any One private banking concern than; was now permitted in Ireland. The right hon. gentleman, as an equivalents for suffering the Bank to extend its capital was to borrow 500,000l.bonusl.bonus.l.Mr. Maberly
l. said, that the present, as a mere pecuniary transaction, required no defence. It was borrowing 500,000l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the subject ought not to be viewed as a matter simply of a pecuniary nature. It ought to be considered as an effort to call into action the natural advantages of Ireland. The measure, as far as it went, would, he was convinced, be one of unmixed benefit to that country.Mr. S. Rice
5 "That this House will, early in the next session of parliament, take into its most serious consideration, the state of representation of counties in Scotland, with a view to effect some extension of the number of votes, and to establish some connection between the right of voting and the landed property of that country."dominium utile4, "That it further appears to this House, that the right of voting for a Scotch county depends, not on the possession of the dominium utile6533. "That it further appears from the same return, that the same persons have a right to vote in several counties, and consequently that the total number, of voters for all the counties in Scotland is considerably less than 2,889.viz.viz.2. "That, by the same return, it appears that the greatest number of persons having a right to vote in any one county did not exceed 240, viz.viz.1. "That it appears, by a certified copy of the roll of freeholders of every county in Scotland, as last made up, laid before this House in July 1820, that the total number of persons having a right to vote in all those counties together, did not exceed 2,889.
5 "That this House will, early in the next session of parliament, take into its most serious consideration, the state of representation of counties in Scotland, with a view to effect some extension of the number of votes, and to establish some connection between the right of voting and the landed property of that country."dominium utile4, "That it further appears to this House, that the right of voting for a Scotch county depends, not on the possession of the dominium utile6533. "That it further appears from the same return, that the same persons have a right to vote in several counties, and consequently that the total number, of voters for all the counties in Scotland is considerably less than 2,889.viz.viz.2. "That, by the same return, it appears that the greatest number of persons having a right to vote in any one county did not exceed 240, viz.viz.1. "That it appears, by a certified copy of the roll of freeholders of every county in Scotland, as last made up, laid before this House in July 1820, that the total number of persons having a right to vote in all those counties together, did not exceed 2,889.652 said, that when he had given notice of this motion, he had flattered himself that it would attract the attention of members; but he thought he should act unhandsomely in the present state of the House, by giving the appearance of solemn discussion where solemn discussion there was not; and he should do violence to his own feelings and to the interests of the, persons concerned, and act in a way
5 "That this House will, early in the next session of parliament, take into its most serious consideration, the state of representation of counties in Scotland, with a view to effect some extension of the number of votes, and to establish some connection between the right of voting and the landed property of that country."dominium utile4, "That it further appears to this House, that the right of voting for a Scotch county depends, not on the possession of the dominium utile6533. "That it further appears from the same return, that the same persons have a right to vote in several counties, and consequently that the total number, of voters for all the counties in Scotland is considerably less than 2,889.viz.viz.2. "That, by the same return, it appears that the greatest number of persons having a right to vote in any one county did not exceed 240, viz.viz.1. "That it appears, by a certified copy of the roll of freeholders of every county in Scotland, as last made up, laid before this House in July 1820, that the total number of persons having a right to vote in all those counties together, did not exceed 2,889.
5 "That this House will, early in the next session of parliament, take into its most serious consideration, the state of representation of counties in Scotland, with a view to effect some extension of the number of votes, and to establish some connection between the right of voting and the landed property of that country."dominium utile4, "That it further appears to this House, that the right of voting for a Scotch county depends, not on the possession of the dominium utile6533. "That it further appears from the same return, that the same persons have a right to vote in several counties, and consequently that the total number, of voters for all the counties in Scotland is considerably less than 2,889.viz.viz.2. "That, by the same return, it appears that the greatest number of persons having a right to vote in any one county did not exceed 240, viz.viz.1. "That it appears, by a certified copy of the roll of freeholders of every county in Scotland, as last made up, laid before this House in July 1820, that the total number of persons having a right to vote in all those counties together, did not exceed 2,889.652Lord A. Hamilton
—Did you ever see Mr. Weaver at your own house?—No.By Lord Nugent.
—You have said that the latter part of the paragraph was in your hand-writing. In whose hand-writing was the former part?—It was an extract from the "Courier."By Lord Nugent.
—The question asked you is, whether, when you lend any extra men to Mr. Weaver, he pays you for the loan?—The money is not paid; but it is among the disbursements in the books.By Lord Nugent.
—I think I understood you to say, that some part of the outgoings of the paper were borne by you up to this time?— Out of Mr. Weaver's money.By Lord Nugent.
—Had you any conversation with Weaver yesterday as to the order which he had received to attend?— Nothing more than that he told me he bad received the order.By Lord Nugent.
—Did any written or oral agreement take place at the time Weaver got the paper, as the compensation he was to pay you?—There was an agreement made.By Lord Nugent.
648647 observed, that as he considered the present question to be one of more than ordinary importance, he should make no apology for addressing a few short remarks to the attention of the House. With regard to the idea of leniency towards these parties, he laid it on-tirely aside, and left it to the House to
648647Mr. Brougham
 said, that if the interest of money increased to 5 or 6 percent, the bargain would be advantageous; but, if it remained stationary, the country would be burdened with an unnecessary expense of one per cent.Mr. Hume
—Did Mr. Weaver know before his examination yesterday, that you wrote the paragraph in question? —I do not think he did.By Dr. Phillimore.
 thought that the evidence which had been given that day and the day before ought to be printed for such gross prevarication, and such wicked contempt of every thing like truth, ought not to be allowed to pass over with impunity. He should therefore move that the minutes of evidence should be printed.Mr. M. A. Taylor
655 said, that if the House would but consider the bill worthy of their consideration, they would afterwards find that it was calculated to do much good, without producing any mischief. He hoped that in the next session, he should be able to submit to a committee a plan for the reduction of smoke in every town in England. Mr. Parks, a gentleman of distinguished talents, had proposed an apparatus, which would be found of the utmost utility. He was sorry he did not see in his place the hon. member for Liverpool, that he might state to him a circumstance which had recently occurred in that town. An indictment was actually brought, in order to abate a nuisance occasioned by great bodies of smoke which were suffered to escape in a particular neighbourhood; the case was referred to the consideration of an eminent barrister, and that gentleman bad-recommended to the complaining-parties the use of Mr. Parks's apparatus. The apparatus was accordingly tried, and, after that trial, the parties who had so loudly complained, had come forward
655Mr. M. A. Taylor
654 said, that he could not consent to vote for any abstract proposition, or even for the matter of fact stated in the resolution just put from the Chair, knowing that it was to be followed by others intended to form the basis of practical measures. He complained that the noble lord had not at all stated his motives, and had given the House no arguments to enable it to arrive at any conclusions. He contended, that the alteration of system contemplated by the noble lord would hot materially augment the number of freeholders, and that it would be a direct violation of the Union, by one of the articles of which Scotland had stipulated, that she should have the unrestrained choice of her own representatives. A strong case, indeed, ought to be made out to warrant so flagrant a breach of public faith. He was certain that the noble lord was no friend of universal suffrage—that he had no sympathy or communion with its supporters; but the reform he contemplated was most important; and the least that might have been required was, that some opinion should have been expressed by those whom the change was intended to benefit. Hitherto, however, not a single meeting had been held; from which that opinion could be ascertained. He thought that the noble lord had treated the House somewhat contemptuously by the mode of proceeding he had adopted, and should
654Mr. Mackenzie
 said, the witness would do well with regard to the House, and would make a better impression with respect to himself, if he would deliberately attend to the questions put to him, and then give direct answers to those questions.The Speaker
 —When you made the proprietorship over to Mr. Weaver, did you conceive he had a right to drop tile paper or continue it as he might think fit?— I conceived that he might do as he pleased in that respect. I had nothing more to do with the paper; although I started it, and may be considered as the father of it.By Sir J. Boughey.
 said, that his hon friend was making an attempt to drag to light the miscreant, the base and dastardly assassin, who, under the protection of the press, had been waging a savage and unrelenting war against the weak, the defenceless, and the oppressed. Whatever might be the issue of the attempt, the gratitude of the House was due to him for having made it. As many members had withdrawn under the idea that an adjournment was to take place, he thought they had better not decide upon the important point of placing one of their fellow subjects in confinement, until they should be able to take the sense of a larger House.Sir R. Wilson
640—In what capacity do you consider yourself as standing to Weaver, agent or trustee?—As his friend. I presume it is common for one man to take care of another man's money.640By Sir W. De Crespigny.
658657 rose. He began by assuring his hon. friend that, in dissenting from the motion which he had submitted to the House, it was not because he lightly estimated the attack which had been made upon his character. That character he well knew, and no man could estimate the character of another more highly than he did that of his hon. friend; but there were various objections which he had to the mode of proceeding pointed out by his hon. friend. His first was, that it would not be in accordance with strict justice, first to extract evidence from parties which might afterwards be urged against them in a court of justice; and he also objected to it, because he did not think that the House ought to order prosecution in that way, in a case which ought not so much to be considered an attack on an-individual member, as a violation of the privileges of the House itself. Now, he would not be understood as undervaluing the privileges of the House, if he did not use them on light occasions. It appeared to him, that the true ground on which this question ought to rest, was that of breach of the privileges of the House, by the publication of what passed there, or
658657Mr. Scarlett
659 said, that he had felt it his duty to bring the subject before the House,
659Mr. Bennet
660 said, he was glad that his hon. friend had withdrawn his motion. For his own part, he would not wish to punish any of the individuals who had appeared at their bar; and if any hon. member should make a motion to that effect, he should feel it his duty to oppose it. At the same time, he was satisfied that his hon. friend was perfectly right, in having brought the matter before the House. He had done so to justify his character; and, though that was unnecessary to all who knew him, yet no one would deny that a man must feel extremely hurt at having his honour and his courage called in question. As to the persons who had been summoned to the bar of the House, and whose prevarications the House had heard, no one could believe a word of the account they gave. Their characters were exposed, and sent forth to the public; and it was his opinion, that that would prove their punishment, for the good and thinking part of the community would believe what they should write, in future, to be as false as what they had stated in that House. His only wish was, that the real author of the article in question could be discovered. It was, indeed, a new era in the history of this country to see a paper flourish which had been started to blast the character of virtuous and innocent women, and it was an era still more
660Sir R. Fergusson
661 said, that the hon. member for Shrewsbury had left the House in an awkward situation, not by withdrawing his motion, but by not submitting some other in its stead. He was most ready to do justice to the feelings which actuated the hon. member, but he considered that unless the House were put in a condition to assert its own privileges by punishing its violation, the complaint should not have been made. It should not be supposed that the House would not vindicate itself, nor be suffered to go abroad to the public that any unworthy man might attack it with impunity. He fully agreed with his learned friend that the sending the matter to be tried by a court of law would not be a4 fit proceeding; for, when it got there, it might become a question, whether the case could be punished. The House might, in that case, be open to many attacks; and after they had declared any matter to be a libel and a breach of privilege, it would be awkward to have a court and jury declaring that the House knew nothing at all about it, and that the matter charged was no libel. But, though he could not consent to leave this question sent to a court of law, still he did not think it could rest where it now stood; and therefore, however painful it was to him, he felt it his duty to interfere; and, seeing that no other member was disposed to do so, he would suggest what ought to be done. He was one of those who thought, that not only the debates of that House ought to be sufficient to go forth to the public, but that great freedom should be allowed in discussing the public characters of members of that House; for he considered that such, indulgence was attended with the greatest
661Mr. Baring
662, in seconding the motion, maintained that his hon. friend bad not left the House in an awkward situation by the manner in which he had acted. His hon. friend had done that which was necessary to protect the House and the character of members from being attacked by a set of base assassins; and if the House could not come at the base beings who lurked behind the screen, they ought to punish those unworthy men who allowed themselves to be made their in-
662Sir W. De Crespigny
663 was sure the House were greatly indebted to the noble marquis for the motion of yesterday evening, which gave them all an opportunity of coming to a decision upon this question, in a more calm and deliberate manner. He could not agree to the motion of his hon. friend, the member for Taunton, and would therefore propose an amendment. He could not agree with his hon. friend, that the House was in a dilemma, from which it could extricate itself only by committing Mr. Cooper to Newgate. He begged to bring to the recollection of his hon. friend, and of the House, the circumstances attendant, in the early part of the session, on a breach of their privileges of a much more important and dangerous character than the present. The House could not have forgotten the complaint made by his right hon. friend the member for Waterford, of the address from the Presbytery of Langholm, which had been, published in The Gazette. That address contained a direct invitation to his majesty to interfere with freedom of speech in that House, and to notice certain speeches which had been delivered in it—an invitation which, if his majesty had complied with it, would have placed him in a situation, with relation to that House, in which no sovereign of the country had been placed since Charles the First. A grosser or more flagrant breach of the privileges of that House could not be conceived than the address to which he alluded, in comparison with which any attack on the character of an individual member sunk into utter insignificance. What was the course adopted by the House on that occasion? A motion was made for the attendance of the printer of The Gazette, but it was withdrawn on the noble marquis's making an apology and explanation on the part of the secretary of state. He might feel that the House, in the course which they adopted on that occasion, most dangerously compromised their own character; but he could not help thinking that as they had passed over, and winked at an attempt to induce his majesty to attack the dearest privileges of the House, it would be most ungracious and severe to visit with punishment the poor, wretched, prevaricating printers and publishers who were guilty of nothing out of having allowed themselves to be made
663Lord Nugent
665664 hoped that he had explained himself sufficiently yesterday, to mark that, while he was anxious to avoid any breach of the general principles of justice and the sound administration of the law, especially in abstaining from extracting from the accused evidence to be subsequently used against him, he was not insensible to what the privileges of the House required, and that the person who violated them ought to be visited with the indignation of the House, and with a punishment, in which, however, justice ought to be tempered with mercy. He had no wish for the adoption of any course but one, in a spirit which should show that the House maintained even-handed justice towards all parties, and that no consideration of a private or particular nature should turn the House aside from the vindication of their privileges in one case, and not be allowed to operate in another; and here, he must observe, that he lamented extremely, that an individual so distinguished in his profession as the hon. and learned gentleman opposite, an individual who must be supposed to bring into that House the innate principles of justice that belonged to the profession, of which he was so brilliant an ornament, should permit himself to insinuate that the libellous attack in question proceeded from some unnamed and unknown quarter, as if wishing to inflict a wound on some person or other, whom the speculation of the world might have pointed out as implicated in the subject. The hon. and learned gentleman would forgive him for saying, that in his opinion it would have been better, on the present occasion, to have abstained from the introduction of any such remarks. He lamented also what had fallen from a gallant general of a similar import. He could assure that gallant general, that no man could feel greater indignation than himself at any unjust attack on virtue in women, or honour in men, let it proceed from what quarter it might; and that no man would be more tenacious of those
665664The Marquis of Londonderry
666, in explanation, observed, that be; would not have troubled the House were it not for the allusions made to him by the noble marquis; but as those allusions had been made in so direct and pointed a manner he trusted the House would allow him to make a few remarks upon them. And first, he would observe, that if any thing could give rise to a charge of party feeling on this occasion, it was the tone and manner of the noble marquis. He most solemnly protested that no spirit of party feeling had actuated him upon this question; on the contrary, nothing was farther from his mind during the whole discussion. He had made the observations objected to by the noble marquis, from having heard it rumoured out of doors, that the paragraph in question had been written by a member of that House. He had heard no name mentioned; nor did he believe the statement; on the contrary, he had distinctly said, that the motion of his hon. friend had vindicated that House from such an aspersion. If this was an imputation upon any hon. member, then he did not understand the purport of his own language. He assured the noble marquis that he never had the slightest intention of casting such aspersion on any honourable member, or of treating the subject as a party question. If any thing was calculated to demonstrate a party-feeling, it was what had occurred after he had concluded his speech. For himself he would say that he was the last roan that could think it endurable to express political and party-feelings by libels an individuals. He thought that one who wrote for a party, be it what party it might, was not on that account to be condemned. But attacks on private character for party purposes, ought to be visited with the common detestation of both parties. If there were a design to write down the liberty of the press, the author of the
666Mr. Scarlett
667 expressed his regret, that any expressions of a warm character should have escaped him in the course of the debate, but he felt the less upon it, as it had drawn forth the very satisfactory explanation of the hon. and learned member. From the nature
667The Marquis of Londonderry
 rose to explain. The noble lord had in his first speech imputed political motives to him upon this occasion. This he positively denied. Where the noble lord got his omniscience as to the motives and feelings of other men he could not guess; but he thought the noble lord had better look to his own feelings and motives upon this question. He had spoken upon this subject from honest feelings of indignation at seeing the foulest calumnies published against the Women of this country. He trusted the noble lord and the House would coincide with him in reprobating this new system of attack upon the women of the country.Sir R. Fergusson
 wished the gallant general would express the same indignation when other hon. members were attacked.The Marquis of Londonderry
668 observed, that the noble marquis had selected the very weakest case of precedent on the Journals. In all cases of privilege, the honour and character of the House were alone to be looked to. It was said, that libels were become more frequent; but this, in his opinion, was the very reason why the punishment should be made more severe. He had seen in papers belonging to both parties, libels which were disgraceful to the country, and, to those who administered public justice, for allowing them to pass Unpunished. The noble marquis had relied on a case which occurred two years ago. He could not say any thing in mitigation of that case; be thought it a most flagitious libel, and one which called for a much severer punishment than that with which it had been visited. Here the hon. member entered into a descrip-
668Mr. Wynn
nemine contradicente.669 could not conceive that any thing could be more dangerous than that an impression should go abroad that it was safer to attack gentlemen on one side of the House than upon the other. He entertained a high respect for the character of the hon. member for Shrewsbury; but he entertained quite as high a respect for the character of his
nemine contradicente.669The Hon. J. W. Ward
671 said, that with respect to the punishment which it was, fitting to inflict upon the authors of libels upon that House, he should not venture to hazard any opinion, except it were, that in all such cases the least punishment that was inflicted was the best. With regard to the libel which had been just read to the House, it ought to be recollected, that the right hon. member for Liverpool had used the expression, "the revered and ruptured Ogden;" and that there was considerable laughter in consequence. Owing to that circumstance many gentlemen accused him of being in the habit of turning into ridicule the sufferings of his fellow-creatures. He did not mean to say that such an accusation was just; he meant only to say, that it was an accusation frequently made against the right hon. member. He recollected that when the House inquired into that libellous paragraph, the person who wrote it came forward to acknowledge himself the author of it, and stated that it had been written by him in mistake, and that the House credited his statement, conceiving him to have put down that which he had not accurately heard. He did not, however, rise for the purpose of repeating those facts to the House, but for the purpose of entering his protest against the doctrine of the noble marquis, that he and the friends with whom he had the honour of acting were in the habit of giving their countenance to libels, similar to that which was contained in the paper called "John Bull." He would allow that severe political reflections had recently appeared in many of the newspapers; but he could only pity the noble marquis's want of discrimination of moral feeling, if he confounded attacks upon private character with fair political hostility and animadversion. The one could be answered; the other could not. A person might, for instance, charge the noble marquis with having ordered persons to be flogged to death, or tortured during his administration in Ireland. The noble marquis could disprove this; he might appeal to the whole of his public life as a contradiction to such a statement; but, suppose the character of any female belonging to the noble marquises family were to be publicly attacked, would he, though the insinuation was as false as hell, feel it sufficient that her innocence could be proved, by unveiling and laying before the public the whole of her private life? However pure the character of a woman might
671Lord John Russell
672 interrupted the noble lord by stating, that, if we heard him correctly, the noble lord's information about our ambassadors at foreign courts seemed to be as correct as his information respecting Irish politics. Where the noble lord got his information he did not know, but he could inform him, that it was a rank and egregious calunmny. If the noble lord would point out to him a single individual in his office, who had sanctioned the circulation of this paper by sending it to foreign courts, he pledged his honour that he would dismiss that individual immediately. With regard to the defence of the female sex which the noble lord had volunteered, he hoped the noble lord would have no objection to admit him as his rival in it; for he did not feel inclined to devolve upon that noble lord, or upon any other person, that duty which he owed to the sex, in common with every other man of honour in society. He could assure the noble lord that he had no intention to justify the present libel—on the contrary, he looked upon it with extreme indignation; all that he had done was, to compare it with paragraphs not less infamous, with attacks not less malevolent, which had appeared in other papers, arraigning interests the most sacred, and insulting the personal character even of majesty itself. He should like to know whether the noble lord had never taken in the
672The Marquis of Londonderry
 after stating that he wished to call the attention of the House to the true question before it, proceeded to implore it to be consistent in its conduct, and to deal out the same measure of justice in this as it had done in a former instance, if it conceived the cases to be at all parallel. He could not hope to add any weight to the indignation which had been so justly expressed against the language used in this publication; but he thought the House was going out of its way in entering into any discussion on the general conduct of any newspaper, when they had before it a paragraph which was at once a violation of the privileges of the House, and a libel upon one of its members. He conceived it to be the duty of the House to consider whether the case which had been so often referred to, was analogous to the case then before it. In his opinion, the analogy was perfect. That being the case, he thought the House ought not to allow itself to be carried away by the indignation which it felt at the general conduct of the "John Bull" newspaper, but should adopt the course recommended by the noble marquis, in justice not only to the House itself, but to each of its members individually.Mr. W. Courtenay,
 said, that as he had never read Mr. Hone's publications, he did not think the point which the noble marquis had started regarding them worth discussion. He had never taken them in; but he believed they were all of a political nature, and not subversive of private character.Lord John Russell
673 said, that as he was for the severer punishment on this occasion, he felt it necessary to say a few words upon it. He was one who thought that the greatest latitude ought to be allowed in discussions on public men and public measures; so much was he of this opinion,
673Mr. W. Smith
674 could not allow the present question to proceed to a vote, without entering his protest against the comparison which had been made between two parties without the slightest justice whatever. To make such a comparison was to confound innocence with guilt, was to confound the individual who had intended to wound with the individual who had, unintentionally wounded, was to confound great respectability of character with all that is mean, despicable, and infamous. Let the House look at the two cases. Mr. Collier was connected with a most respectable establishment in the city —an establishment as useful and as beneficial as any establishment in the country, and little liable for charges of wantonly wounding private feelings. It was an establishment accustomed to take up and
674Mr. Hutchinson
675 said, he should give his vote for the infliction of the severer punishment. He thought the analogy which it had been attempted to establish be-
675Mr. Wilmat
 denied that he had ever asserted that the press ought to be submitted to a committee of the House. All he had said was, that it was high time for the House to mark its disapprobation of the gross libels daily circulated.Sir T. Lethbridge
 added, that his only motives for persevering in his motion were, that the privileges of the House might be vindicated, and the guilty party duly punished. With regard to the case supposed by some to be analogous, he must say that he saw little or no resemblance between the two. That which occurred two years ago was merely a misrepresentation; but the one now under consideration contained a statement entirely fictitious.Mr. Baring
 requested the noble marquis to withdraw his amendment. The House had committed a gross error in the precedent quoted; and he begged to add that he had been a reluctant party to it.Mr. Bankes
 replied, that an appearance of as much unanimity as could be procured was desirable; and on that account he would withdraw his amendment. He was free to confess, that he thought it better to break than to observe the precedent.The Marquis of Londonderry
676 submitted to his noble friend, whether he would not withdraw his amendment, the noble marquis having already complied with what appeared to be the general wish of the House. He thought it one of the most unfortunate symptoms, of the present times, that several most respectable members had, oh the present occasion, expressed what he could not but consider a groundless and fatal doubt regarding the right of asserting the privileges of parliament, which constituted, in. fact, one of the main securities of the subject. He had looked into the publication in question; and from what he had seen and heard, he was satisfied that it pursued a system of savage hostility to individuals, tend-
676Sir J. Mackintosh
 said, he Would not resist the general wish of the House by persevering in his amendment.Lord Nugent
 said, that as the case of Mr. Collier had been so much alluded to, he rose to state his recollection of the circumstances. The case of Mr. Collier was not one of wilful misrepresentation. When called to the bar, his manner made a very favourable impression. The consistency of his statement was also considered, and there was the evidence of a member of that House, that, to the best of his recollection, the hon. member for Aberdeen had made use of words similar to those which were reported by Mr. Collier. If he thought Mr. Collier had been guilty of putting into the mouth of a member of that House malicious falsehoods, in order to gratify his own malignity, for that was the charge against the young gentleman, no consideration of lenity would have induced him to vote in that case for a lesser punishment. The case of Mr. Collier was entirely different from the case before the House. Here there was nothing to exculpate the party; on the contrary, there was the absence of every extenuating circumstance. He should therefore vote for the more severe punishment.Mr. Brougham
 said, that though he withdrew his amendment in deference to the House, he did not at the same time surrender his own opinion.Lord Nugent
 Bourne said, he thought the House was placed in an embarrassing situation, in being called upon to punish persons for what they had done in the course of an examination at the bar into1 their private concerns. That examination had been carried further than he had recollected the House ever to have gone before and had it not been for the obloquy attached to such an interference, he should more than once have stood up for the protection of the witnesses against questions tending to criminate themselves. Besides this, many members could not be prepared to vote on this part of the question, not having been present during the whole of the evidence. In order to enable them to form a judgment, the evidence ought to be printed; but he was prevented from voting for making a motion to that effect, from a conviction that a great part of the examination had been of so indiscreet a nature on the part of the House, that it would not reflect much credit upon it.Mr. Sturges
678lex et consuetudo parliamenti. expressed his deep regret that the right hon. gentleman, for whom he entertained the highest respect, had been induced to make the statement just heard it amounted to this—that during the long examinations that had taken place on this subject, which he thought derogatory to the House and oppressive to the individuals, he had set still, without urging any objection, on account of the obloquy and unpopularity he might incur: he had permitted the House, in his judgment, to disgrace itself by the course it had pursued, because he did not choose to run the risk of an unjust imputation. It was deeply to be lamented that a member so endowed should have made such a statement. He would protest against this reference of the order of their proceedings to that of other courts. They were alone to be governed by the 678lex et consuetudo parliamenti.Sir J. Mackintosh
 in explanation, said, that what he had stated was, that in the unpleasant situation in which the persons at the bar were placed, being called on to acknowledge their own criminality, the House had gone too far in the examination. All he should have thought proper to do, and all that had usually been done in such cases was, to get at the legal liability of the persons called on to answer for their offence, and having done that, to abstain from all questions tending to aggravate their criminality. He had urged that they should consider the circumstances under which the prevarication took place; for really, as to the libel, they did not prevaricate. The printer had stated, for instance, that he had nothing to do with the literary department. But many questions were asked him which were not relevant: a noble lord had asked him, what he had to do with "The Traveller?" Another hon. member had asked, whether he had any money at his banker's? These questions as to private affairs were unwarrantable. He had on former occasions made the same objections to the latitude of examination pursued in the House.Mr. S. Bourne,
 agreed that limits should be set to the examination of individuals: but, in the present instance, he conceived the course of the examination to have been proper; for Weaver having given an answer respecting the property of the paper, which gave the House reason to suspect that he prevaricated, it became necessary to pursue that examination farther.Mr. Scarlett
 said, the House had proceeded on the true principles of justice and in support of their privileges. The questions which had been put, led directly to the real merits of the case.Sir W. De Crespigny
679 said, he had not asked
679Lord Nugent
 agreed, that no questions ought to be unnecessarily put to a witness for the purpose of aggravating his offence: but, though he could not defend every question which had been put, he thought the questions alluded to might have proved material.Mr. Wynn
 observed, that if the discussion was to be continued upon the comparative testimony of the witnesses, it would be better to have the evidence printed, and the decision deferred. This was a case in which the House ought to avoid incurring the charge, of precipitation.The Marquis of Londonderry
 was not prepared to vote all the witnesses guilty of prevarication, without having the evidence previously printed. He had voted for sending the editor to Newgate, because he had heard what he said at the bar of that House.Mr. Denman
 admitted that the House was in possession of the power of committing for breach of privileges; but they should not fritter it away by exerting it on light occasions; and he thought it would have been well if, after the member for Shrewsbury had vindicated his honour, which had been most unjustly aspersed, the matter had been dropped.Mr. Bernal
 had no objection to the printing of the evidence, if any further proceedings were deemed necessary; but, for his own part, he thought that a sufficient number of members were present who had heard the evidence of the parties, to come now to a decision upon the fact of their prevarication. He would therefore withdraw his motion, and move, instead of it, "That Robert Thomas Weaver has grossly prevaricated in his evidence before this House."Mr. W. Smith
680 could not pretend to assert that Weaver had not been guilty of prevarication, but he thought enough had been done for the dignity of the House. As to the other two, he thought there was more impropriety of motive apparent than of absolute prevarication. It appeared that Shackle and Arrowsmith had been prosecuted for a libel; and finding that they were likely to get into more of such scrapes, had made a. bargain with the printer to the effect, that if he took the paper off their hands he should have the profits. At least this might have been the case and the evidence did not con-
680Mr. Wilson
 said, he had been present at the whole of the examination, and he must say that if ever he witnessed a gross attempt to defeat the ends of justice by prevarication, it was in those witnesses. They all of them seemed to have some mental reservation, and in every answer showed a wish to induce a different meaning from what they entertained.Lord Stanley
 said, he was not prepared to give a vote on the case of the other two individuals without having the printed evidence before him. Whether they had prevaricated or not, he did not know at that time, and therefore he wished the further consideration of the subject to be adjourned.Mr. Brougham
 said, that pregnant doubts existed in the minds of many gentlemen as to the fact whether these men had or had not been guilty of prevarication. He had himself heard the whole of the evidence of Arrowsmith; and he saw not thing like prevarication in it. Neither did he think that there was any prevarication in Shackle's evidence. Doubts being entertained whether they had prevaricated or riot, he thought the House ought to proceed no further.Sir C. Long
681 concurred in the opinion that it would become the House not to go farther in this affair. This was his opi-
681Mr. Baring
 thought that as the House had gone so far, it should, not allow the greater delinquents to escape with impunity, while their instruments were condemned to imprisonment. For his own part, he was of opinion that it would be better not to take any notice of attacks of the press of this description: but when the attention of the House was called to them, it was due to its dignity and character to proceed to ascertain and punish the real offenders.Colonel Davies
 thought the House could have no doubt, that the individuals on whose case they were now to decides were the proprietors of the paper. To him it appeared that they were more guilty than the men of straw who had been committed to Newgate. He did not consider that it was necessary to print the evidence. In a case like the present, where the offence complained of was proved to have been committed by the parties brought before them, he thought the heaviest punishment ought to be inflicted.Mr. Wynn
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.685l.l.l.684l.,l.,l.,l.l.l.683l.l.,l.,l.l.,l.l.l.,l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.682 said, he could not permit the Speaker to leave the chair, without placing on record his sentiments with regard to the Ordnance Estimates. Having compared the expense of the Ordnance department at the present moment with that of past years, he was called on to lay the result before the House, to show the extravagant scale, on which the Ordnance establishments were now conducted. He was the more anxious to do this, because on a, former occasion the clerk of the Ordnance, had taken upon himself to declare that the utmost anxiety had been manifested by the noble duke at the head of that department to adopt economical measures in all its branches. He thought he should be able to show the House that no part of that statement could be supported by facts. Now, what
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.685l.l.l.684l.,l.,l.,l.l.l.683l.l.,l.,l.l.,l.l.l.,l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.682Mr. Hume
686 said, that if the hon. gentleman wished to take the debate upon this
686Mr. Ward
 thought it would be more expedient to take the debate upon this question, and to put off the committee of supply till Monday.Colonel Davies
 said, that the preliminary resolutions of the hon. gentleman were, in fact, incapable of being discussed. It was quite impossible, before going into the committee, to reply to the variety of details upon which the conclusion of the hon. gentleman was founded; and, after all, that conclusion was a mere truism, which nobody was disposed to deny, namely, that it was expedient for the committee to observe all possible economy, and make all practicable reductions.The Marquis of Londonderry
 thought the annual excess of expenditure above the sums voted in the estimates might be explained without inconvenience before going into the committee.Mr. Bernal
l.687l. said, that the question of the hon. gentleman admitted of a very easy answer. The difficulty arose entirely from the manner of keeping the Ordnance accounts. Many sums granted in one year were not expended for two or three years, and in some instances there were sums credited for six or seven years. That, indeed, only happened during the war. In 1819 the finance accounts stated an excess, of 200,000l.687l.Mr. Ward
d.s.l.l.693l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.692691l.l.l.l.690l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.689l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.688l.l.l; made a variety of prefatory remarks, calculated to prove the entire necessity of the present extensive arrangements adopted in the Ordnance department, and the consequent expense occasioned by them; and he contended that, comparing the present period with the time of Cromwel, when the charge for Ordnance (exclusive of the half-pay), and for England only, was upwards of 120,000d.s.l.l.693l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.692691l.l.l.l.690l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.689l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.688l.l.l;Mr. Ward
 said, that the right hon. gentleman had made a premature display of artillery, and had nearly expended all his ammunition before he had well taken the field; but every night, when it came to the hour of twelve, he would arrest the business, in consideration of his own health and the health of all loyal subjects, that they might take that refreshment of which they stood in so much need. He would therefore move, that the chairman report progress, and ask leave to sit again.Mr. P. Moore
 said, that the hon. member for Aberdeen having, on a former occasion, moved for a return of the number of clerks in the Ordnance office, had stated, that 67 individuals had been appointed to offices by the noble duke at the head of it. It was certainly true that 67 appointments had taken place; but of these only 22 had been made by the duke. Five of those 22 had been assistant clerks, and were promoted in the ordinary routine of the office.Mr. Ward
imperium in imperio observed, that it appeared by the report of the commissioners of military inquiry that the patronage of each department was vested in the head; of it. He wished to know whether this was the case in the board of Ordnance. If it were, it would be a complete instance of an imperium in imperioColonel Davies
 stated, that the Ordnance was governed by a master-general, whose will was supreme. He could, by his mere fiat, upset all the proceedings of the board. The board, however, on points in which the master-general did not interfere, was also supreme. There were four officers, holding their places by patent, who were entitled to a seat at the board, though they received no emolument from it. They had the right of appointing their own clerks.Mr. Ward
 observed, that according to this statement the master-general was a mere puppet, who placed upon the I shoulders of others the responsibility which ought to rest upon his own.Colonel Davies
 said, the gallant officer ought to have known that the master-general was as responsible as any other officer under the Crown. Out of five or six hundred offices, the majority were disposed of by him.Mr. Ward
But condemns them as vague before they're presented."When papers are granted, he's never contented,And is constantly calling for further returns.E'en Huskisson's best explanations he spurns,A dull unamusing debate on an estimate;"Ward and lord Palmerston always detest him at706705704l regretted the necessity he was under of troubling the committee at some length, but after the challenge thrown out to him by the hon. gentleman, he found this was unavoidable. He again insisted that the duke of Wellington, instead of making new appointments, had constantly applied himself to suppress all useless offices. The 67 appointments which the duke had been stated to have made, he had on a former night succeeded in reducing to eight or ten. The hon. member had on a former night complained of a "discrepancy" in the Ordnance accounts to the amount of 300,000But condemns them as vague before they're presented."When papers are granted, he's never contented,And is constantly calling for further returns.E'en Huskisson's best explanations he spurns,A dull unamusing debate on an estimate;"Ward and lord Palmerston always detest him at706705704lMr. Ward
ll709l"Ye Gods, annihilate both space and time, And make two lovers happyllA local habitation and a name.""Turns them to shape, and gives to airy nothing""The form of things unseen, the member's eye"And, as imagination bodies forth"Glances from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven;"The member's eye, in a fine frenzy rolling,l708llllll707 said no; and proceeded to notice the praises bestowed on the hon. member for his industry. He was said to have done more good than any body else: but nearly all the information which he had brought before the House was to be found in the Red Book. The salaries of the officers, it was true, were not there, but they were to be found in the papers that had annually been presented to parliament. Another proof of the correctness of the hon. gentleman was found in
ll709l"Ye Gods, annihilate both space and time, And make two lovers happyllA local habitation and a name.""Turns them to shape, and gives to airy nothing""The form of things unseen, the member's eye"And, as imagination bodies forth"Glances from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven;"The member's eye, in a fine frenzy rolling,l708llllll707Mr. Ward
argumentum ad hominem, supported the statements of his hon. friend the member for Aberdeen; and denied that the right hon. gentleman's speech was an answer to them. He had gone much upon the argumentum ad hominem,Colonel Davies
710 hoped the hon. gentleman would direct his attention to the charge of the store department; the whole of
710Mr. Maberly
l said, it was the intention of government to cut down that establishment at Sheerness as soon as the stores were removed to Chatham. With respect to the six officers who had houses at Sheerness, it was not the fact that five of them resided at Queenborough, and let their houses at the former place. He had again to complain of the manner in which the hon. member brought forward his statements. He had now represented the store-keeper as holding a useless office. But he had, in fact, stores to the value of 1,000,000lMr. Ward
 bore testimony to the great services rendered to the country by the exertions of the hon. baronet. He, for one, could not consent to a reduction of one shilling in that hon. member's allowance. If the suggestions of the hon. baronet had been attended to, a great step would have been taken to check, if not entirely to put an end to forgeries upon the Bank.Mr. J. Smith
 said, that there were three situations in which it would be harsh, and even cruel, to make any reduction.Mr. J. Smith
l thought it was not fair to compare the estimates of the present year with those of 1792. The situation of England at present was in every way different from the situation in which she stood in 1792. The country was then on the eve of war; at present, we were in a state of profound peace The hon. member next drew a comparison between the amount of the army expenses of France and England, and contended that on the face of the estimates before the House, there appeared an excess of expenditure of 5,500,000lMr. Birch
ll703lllllllEx uno disce omnesll702lllllllll701l.l700lll begged leave to repeat the statement which he had made on a former night. He had said, that since the termination of the war there had been 67 individuals introduced into the civil part of the Ordnance, and that 6,939ll703lllllllEx uno disce omnesll702lllllllll701l.l700lllMr. Hume
l said, that in order to remove that objection, he would deduct the amount of those situations from his amendment, and move that only 4,295lMr. Hume
l said, that while he admitted the services of the hon. baronet, he must persist in saying that other departments were greatly overpaid. Formerly, the store-keeper was paymaster; now the, very few men were at Woolwich, there was a paymaster and two clerks receiving 758lMr. Hume
ll allowed that he was not competent to vie with the right hon. gentleman in wit and eloquence and poetry but still thought it unfair that the hon. gentleman should have dwelt so long on his dulness of intellect and gullibility. This was, however, a proof that the right hon. gentleman was unable to answer the statements which he had made. The fact was, that in 1796, the civil department of the Ordnance at the Tower and Westminster cost only 18,000llMr. Hume
dsldsll712l said, that if this included Woolwich, he should object to some of the items. He then went through several details, in order to show that many situations were kept up which were not at all necessary. Among others, he objected to the continuance of fire-masters, to the; office of inspector of the royal powder 'manufactory, to the inspector of artillery, and of the brass foundery; all of which, be contended, might be dispensed with. There was also an inspector and deputy Inspector of the carriage department: now, at least, the salary of the deputy-inspector might be saved. As to the storekeeper at Chatham, he could not but think that his salary was too large, when he recollected that a major-general had only 480dsldsll712lMr. Hume
 inquired if the lines quoted were in John Bull?Mr. Hume
 asserted, that instead of 67 appointments which were said to have been made in this office by the duke of Wellington, he could assure the hon. member, that there had "been only 12 or 13 made by his grace since he entered upon his office.Sir U. Burgh
713sl assured the House that he was certainly not a sinecure holder in the Ordnance department. He had been held out as a pluralist, when, in fact, both his offices in the Ordnance department only amounted to 25713slSir W. Congreve
 said, that the naval service had been highly benefited by the improvements made by the hon. baronet.Sir G. Cockburn
 said, he had no hesitation in contradicting that assertion.Mr. Bathurst
 said, that he would vote that the petition be rejected, because, instead of facts, it stated the mere opinion of the petitioner. It was now five weeks since a motion had been made for a commission to inquire into the state of Ilchester gaol, yet no inquiries had been made under it. If it were true that the keeper conducted himself in a cruel and barbarous manner, the sooner he was removed the better: it was not fit that 150 of his majesty's subjects should be under the care of a person, against whom such heavy charges had been brought, without the government proceeding to an immediate inquiry as to the truth of those charges.Dr. Lushington
739738737efficia, velox et salutaris.736735"Immortale odium, et non sanabile vulnus."734733732per se,l.731730729sauve qui peut.728727726725**Lieutenant de police,*724723722dolus an virtus721Pœnitet.""——galeatum sero duelli720celebrare domestica facta; rose. He said, that after the various petitions which had been presented to the House, stating, in terms as simple as they were incontrovertible, and as affecting as they were unaffected, the injuries which had been inflicted on the people whilst peaceably assembled for a purpose of the highest importance to the country, namely, the expression of their feelings upon the necessity of reform of that House—he rose, not knowing to whom the blame of the transaction ought to attach, but with the intention of discovering that point by his motion: for, whether it was to the ministers, or whether it was to the magistrates, or whether it was to the yeomanry, who so particularly distinguished themselves on that occasion, that the great share of blame ought to attach, or whether it was to attach to them all collectively, was more than he could tell at present, and was, therefore, a proof that some inquiry into the subject was necessary. It had fallen to the lot of others to celebrate the triumphs of our arms abroad: to him belonged the unpleasant task of repeating to the House one of the sad events of domestic war—739738737efficia, velox et salutaris.736735"Immortale odium, et non sanabile vulnus."734733732per se,l.731730729sauve qui peut.728727726725**Lieutenant de police,*724723722dolus an virtus721Pœnitet.""——galeatum sero duelli720celebrare domestica facta;Sir Francis Burdett
 seconded the motion.Mr. Hobhouse
744 continued. He stated, that he had no hesitation in saying, that they were not of that description, but were depositions made before the different magistrates, by persons who voluntarily offered themselves to state what they saw and heard. He did not wish to give them a, higher character than they deserved, but he believed that those who made those depositions: swore, only that which they were, convinced was true.—The hon. member, then read a number of depositions, stating the drilling, and the violence used; towards those who would not join in. them. He also read, depositions stating the language of the people, as to their revolutionary intentions and as to their expectations, from the meeting on the 16th of August. The magistrates, conceiving the meeting would be numerous, had every, thing done to preserve the public, peace which was in their power. They s had, three hundred constables stationed; forming two lines to the hustings; but in
744Mr. Wilbraham
.—May I ask where is his deposition? Has he ever sworn to this fact of having read the Riot act?Mr. Bennet
***752l.751750749748747746745 said, he did not know, but he had been told so. Another magistrate, thinking that not sufficient, went into the street and read it again; but he was speedily tripped up, and trampled upon. Much stress had been laid upon the Riot act not having been read, or heard read; but he thought that of little consequence, for it must be considered, that the meeting was liable to be dispersed, not because it was riotous, but because it was a decidedly illegal meeting. He admitted that professedly it was, not illegal; but it was so in fact and in law. Then the military array in which those who assembled at it proceeded to the spot, and many other circumstances, combined to make it of a very peculiar as well as very formidable nature. It could not, therefore, be considered as a meeting of any known or ordinary, character, such as those were which were, contemplated by the Riot act, at the time, of its en-
***752l.751750749748747746745Mr. Wilbraham
 said, he would leave it to every impartial man to say whether the petition was intended to inflame the public mind, or to seek for justice and redress of injuries. In his opinion, it was impossible that the House could suffer to lie upon the table a petition full of such monstrous aspersions upon the venerable judges of the land.The Marquis of Londonderry
 said, he had been present when the sentence of the court of King's-bench was pronounced upon the petitioner; and he could assert, that upon that occasion no expression in words or by gesture was made by any of the learned judges such as described by the petitioner. He believed in his conscience that the gaol of Ilchester had been selected because it was supposed to have been the best regulated.The Attorney General
773772771770769768767 observed, that his hon. and learned friend had expressed his surprise that no person connected with government had risen to offer his opinion on this most important question; and had not merely insinuated, but boldly asserted, that the magistrates of Manchester had proceeded under the immediate directions and orders of government. That assertion he took upon himself confidently to deny. He distinctly affirmed, that although his majesty's ministers felt it to be their duty to support the magistrates, not doubting they had acted conscientiously, yet they were in no way personally responsible for that conduct on the part of the magistrates, which they had not directed, and of the intended nature of which they had no previous knowledge. He regretted that his hon. and learned friend had introduced into his speech, subjects perfectly unconnected with the question, for the purpose of inflaming the passions of the House, and through the House the passions of the country against his majesty's ministers. Among others, he had revived a question which it was for the happiness and interest of all parties that it should be buried in oblivion. He could assure the hon. and learned gentleman, that ministers were not at all ashamed of the part they had acted on that subject. They had discharged a painful but imperious duty. They had discharged that duty faithfully and conscientiously; the House
773772771770769768767The Solicitor-General
774 said, that the peculiar circumstance of his residing where the meeting took place, must be his apology for rising at that hour of the night to address the House. He had considered it his duty to get at the knowledge of the facts of what took place at the meeting before he had made up his mind as to what occurred on the 16th of August. Much had been said as to the state of the county of Lancaster before the meeting took place: he agreed with the hon. member for Dover, that the neighbourhood of Manchester required great care at that time, as he knew that trainings took place in the day-time; he had no doubt but they were illegal, and was of opinion that the magistrates ought to have put them down. There was no doubt but the magistrates thought that the meeting of the 16th of August was legal. He was convinced it was the determination of the people to be peaceable on that occasion; and no doubt they would have been so if they had not been so cruelly attacked by the yeomanry. He had inquired of a great many persons, who went there as spectators, and were not connected with either party, and could state, that the meeting was quite peaceable until the advance of the yeomanry; but the scene that followed, as described by those who saw it, was sufficient to excite horror. He knew persons who had placed themselves near where the magistrates had stationed themselves, and they never understood that the Riot act was read. A Mr. Stanley, a gentleman of the greatest honour and
774Mr. Philips
716 said, he could not hear the hon. member call the yeomanry a political soldiery without entering his protest against it. The yeomanry were a most useful and efficient body, and no country on earth could create or support such a body except Great Britain and Ireland. As to the observations of the hon. member respecting Mr. Hay, the rev. gentleman was bound as a magistrate to act to the best of his judgment; and if he had refused to act he would have rendered himself liable to be struck out of the magistracy. Another assertion of the hon. member was respecting the living which had been given to this rev. gentleman. It was true he had not said it was given for any particular conduct on
716Mr. Serjeant Onslow
743742741740 said he presented himself to the House with great diffidence on this occasion, although he was most anxious to rescue the conduct of the magistrates of Lancashire from the aspersions which had been cast upon it. Notwithstanding he felt personally interested in this question, he was extremely
743742741740Mr. Bootle Wilbraham
715l.l.714 said, he believed the petitioner to be a very honest man. He was a weaver, and had received a cut of a sabre, on his right arm, which incapacitated him from following his occupation; so that, having a wife and three small children, he had been reduced to great distress. He prayed for justice, and that the perpetrators of the outrages of the 16th of August might be brought to justice. Perhaps, in courtesy to the hon. baronet, who was about to bring the subject before the House, he ought to abstain from any thing like an anticipation pf the debate. Yet, knowing as he did,
715l.l.714Mr. Harbord
717 said, he remembered, that having some recollection of the person in question, he had asked him to what
717Lord Stanley
718 said, he felt himself called upon indignantly to notice the vile, base, and atrocious imputations which the petitioner had thrown upon the judges. How
718Mr. Bright
766765764763 rose amidst repeated cries of adjournment. He said he was sorry to trespass on; the attention of the House at so late an hour of the night: he knew that the word "adjournment" had in it a magic charm for: the ears of gentlemen at that hour, but after witnessing the effects of an adjournment upon the decision of an important question in some recent instances, he hoped nothing would induce his horn friends to risk the experiment on the present question. He could have been content to leave the question to the effect of the powerful speech of the hon. baronet who opened the debate; for notwithstanding the eloquent speech they had just heard—not withstanding the detailed statements of the hon. member for Dover, he was confident the House could not but feel as he did, the utmost astonishment and indignation at the determined silence of his majesty's ministers, not one of whom had ventured to speak in reply to the charges of his hon. friend what yet remained unanswered and wholly unshaken. The hon. member for a 'Dover had stated, that it might be possible that in the alarm of the moment the magis-
766765764763Mr. Denman
"For then rebellion might be deemed a crime,""Give the warm1 people no considering time,762761760759758 assured the House, that if he did not consider that this was a question which was capable of being argued conveniently and conclusively within a much narrower compass than that in which it had been discussed in the course of the debate, he should not have risen, feeling as he did, that it was impossible at that late hour of the night to enter fully into the subject; yet, when he considered how deeply the character of the magistracy, the yeomanry, and even of the government itself was implicated, he trusted the House would not refuse to indulge him with a hearing for the very abort time he should claim its attention.—With respect to one gentleman whose name, had been mentioned by the hon. baronet, he thought it his duty to state, that whatever might be the opinion of the House as to his conduct in this instance, no person who had the pleasure of his acquaintance, could entertain a doubt as to the uprightness and humanity of his intentions. He alluded to Mr. Hulton, the chairman of the magistrates on that distressing occasion. He had known Mr. Hulton well in early life, and he appealed to those who also knew him, whether he was not distinguished for that manliness and high and generous spirit which were utterly incompatible with cruelty and oppression. They had heard a number of petitions read, which could not but have excited a considerable degree of regret, as they contained a melancholy detail of individual misfortune; but it appeared to him, that these petitions had been unnecessarily presented to the House, for if they once determined, as he had no doubt they would, that the magistrates, under the peculiarly trying circumstances of the case, were justified in calling in the military to aid the civil police, it would at once be seen, that the extent of casualty
"For then rebellion might be deemed a crime,""Give the warm1 people no considering time,762761760759758Mr. Wilmot
719 said, that the petition, as it related to the judges of the King's-bench, he looked upon as base, false, and slanderous. The terms of the petition were scandalous and base in the extreme; if such language as the petition contained was to be tolerated in that House, then it would be better to give up all respect for the administration of justice. The learned judges, throughout the whole case of the petitioner, had conducted themselves with a cautious and fearful anxiety. They were anxious throughout to do what was equitable and just. They gave to the defendant advantages and opportunities which few parties had ever possessed before; they gave him their assistance when he had no counsel, and bore with the utmost patience language and conduct from the petitioner which courts
719Mr. Scarlett
 felt that it was but an act of justice, on his part, to state that the subject of the petition had been before the court of King's-bench, and that the charges had been answered upon affidavit; that the counsel of Mr. Hunt, after having heard the affidavit read, consented to have the conditional rule obtained by Mr. Hunt, discharged with costs.Mr. Scarlett
 presented another petition from Mr. Hunt complaining of the conduct of the gaoler at Ilchester. The petitioner stated, that the cold and noxious vapours of the gaol were aggravated by the inhuman, cold-blooded, and remorseless keeper's conduct: that the judges had deliberately and intentionally selected the most unwholesome, the worst regulated, and the most immoral gaol in the kingdom; and that one of the judges, who had been born in the neighbourhood of this bastile, had not been able to conceal his joy, when he saw the petitioner sentenced to imprisonment in it for two years and six months.Sir R. Wilson
 presented thirteen petitions from persons who had been cut down and wounded at Manchester. Among them was one from W. Cheetham, who stated, that he was addressed by Meagher, the trumpeter, who said, "Damn you, I will cut your head off," and who immediately gave him a wound in the neck, and cut nine inches off the rim of his hat. The petitioner went to Lancaster, in the expectation of bringing the cowardly trumpeter to justice; but, lo! the grand jury, of which lord Stanley was foreman, the petitioner's late colonel, threw out the bill; his lordship said laughingly, he was sorry one of his regiment should have brought himself into such a hobble; the petitioner then attempted to show to his lordship his hat that was cut, and the blood that run from his wound out to his clothing, but he would not look at them, or allow the petitioner to show them.Sir R. Wilson
 said, that the next petition was from a person who had been considered as the leader of the Manchester meeting; it was from Mr. Henry Hunt, whose conviction at York was, in his opinion, produced by a violent straining of the law, and whose punishment was most oppressive, vindictive and unjust, in a country where justice was administered in mercy.Sir R. Wilson
 said, that the case of Mr. Hunt was totally different from that of the other petitioners.Lord Milton
 expressed his satisfaction at hearing the report contradicted.Lord Milton
 wished to know what the precise nature of those documents was? Whether they were depositions taken before a magistrate; or whether they were depositions made is a court of justice where the witnesses were cross-examined?Lord Milton
757756755754 said, that though he respected as much as any man, the character of his hon. friend who had just sat down, yet on this occasion the House had nothing to do with the character and station of his hon. friend; they had only to do with the case which he had made out, and that which had been attempted to be made out against him. It would, he thought, have been better had his hon. friend abstained from making the allusions which he had indulged in towards the close of his speech, respecting the power of the House to make that a crime which was not so before. His hon. friend had read a number of depositions made by various persons relative to the events of the 16th of August. He was glad to find that those persons no longer thought it necessary that their names should be concealed from public view. But he must ask why those persons were not called on the trial of Hunt? There was a person named Barlow, who had deposed that there were not twenty persons in the Exchange, and that the people at the meeting had bludgeons. But on the part of the witnesses on Hunt's trial there was not one word of this. What was his hon. friend then doing? Were he and the other magistrates sleeping at their post? They could not have been ignorant of the nature of the evidence. Why was the evidence on the trial so different from that given before the magistrates? But Barlow was not the only one in the same predicament. Dunthorpe had stated, that he heard one person coming from the country to the meeting say, that they intended to meet in such numbers as to overawe the civil and military power. That person's name was Wilde; he was one of the defendants, and it was remarkable that judge Bailey, whose name he could never mention without feelings of affection and veneration, in summing up had stated, that there was no evidence against Wilde. Would it have been so if Dunthorpe had been called? But they did not venture to produce him, notwithstanding such a deposition. Perhaps they were influenced by some knowledge of the character of the witness. But whether it was so or no, this was an important question which he was firmly convinced, could never be set at rest but through the intervention of parliament. As the hon. baronet had well said, it was a question whose dimensions were too large for one of the ordinary tribunals. It was not a question affecting
757756755754Lord Milton
 said, that his hon. friend did not speak of the yeomanry of England, but of the yeomanry of Manchester. He would ask any man connected with Manchester, to say whether the yeomanry cavalry of that town were like the yeomanry of Surrey or Sussex, farmers residing on their own lands, or whether they were not persons entertaining strong personal and party feeling. With respect to the living given to Mr. Hay, he had heard, and he should like to hear it contradicted, that an arrangement had taken place by which the rev. prelate who gave that living, was to have in return the disposal of one of those livings which were more immediately in the patronage of government.Lord Milton
 observed, that on this question he differed in opinion from most of those with whom he usually acted, and from whom he never differed but with regret. He took that opportunity of stating his opinion with regard to the measures which the legislature had adopted, in consequence of the events at Manchester to August 1819. It would be unbecoming in him to enter into the discussion of the general subject; for even in the hands of those who had greater claims on the attention of the House than he could pretend to, that subject no longer excited interest and attention. The reasons which had influenced him in giving his vote in 1819, with reference to this subject, remained unshaken; and there was no act of his public life to which he looked back with greater satisfaction or a more self-approving conscience.Mr. Grenfell
785libenter homines quod, volunt credunt784 denied that his hon. friend was correct in stating that the subject before the House had lost its interest. If, indeed, he looked at the question in the most limited point of view, he would concede it to him; but, in its broad and constitutional point of view, it had not and could not lose a particle of the interest which had at any time attached to it. He begged to deny the correctness of the solicitor-general's statement last night, that a court of law had pronounced that the meeting at Manchester was an unlawful assembly. The verdict at York had established no such fact. The indictment, if he was rightly informed, consisted of eight counts. In the fourth it charged Mr. Hunt and others with having been engaged in a conspiracy to bring together an illegal meeting for the disturbance of the public peace. Other counts charged them with joining in an unlawful assembly; but they were acquitted upon all except the fourth count, which by no means involved the question of the legality of the meeting. If the meeting, then, were not illegal the interference of the military was unnecessary, and the magistrates had no authority to order a single soldier to advance against the people. It was true that an eminent lawyer (Mr. Plunkett) had pronounced the meeting at Manchester illegal; he however never concurred in that opinion; but even if the meeting were illegal, the learned judge who tried the case at York
785libenter homines quod, volunt credunt784Mr. Bernal
 said, he did not state that the outrage committed on Campbell had taken place on the 16th of August. He had merely observed, that because Campbell was a constable, he had been pursued into a hbuse—that he had been severely treated, and that, in consequence of the injuries he had received, he died in the infirmary.Mr. B. Wilbraham
781 rose to eulogise the yeomanry as a most valuable and peculiarly constitutional force. He was himself a
781Mr. Tynte
782 said, he had hitherto given a silent vote in favour of every motion for inquiring into the unfortunate affair at Manchester, and he should have still preserved the same silent manner of recording his opinion, were it not that, both within and without the walls of parliament, the motives of gentlemen who thought as he did had been misrepresented. It was insinuated, but most erroneously, that those who disapproved of the dispersion' of the Manchester meeting, necessarily approved of the principles of those who had convened the people on that occasion. Now, no person felt less disposed than he did to countenance the extravagant notions of reform entertained by some of those who had called that meeting together, or to sanction many parts of the conduct of the leader who presided on that day. No person felt more disposed to invest the magistracy of the country with every proper discretion for the maintenance of the public peace, to give them every proper support, and enforce the utility and respectability of their functions; but the more he reflected upon the occurrence at Manchester, the greater and more decided was his conviction, that no line of conduct was more calculated to check the growth of that respect which, was due to the magistracy from the people, and to weaken that bond of union which held the different classes of society together, than a refusal to concede such an inquiry as this to the general voice of the country. Me knew it was said, that if this particular inquiry were permitted, it would be impossible to shut out others from the same mode of examination; so that a new principle, of a most impolitic and injurious nature, would be established. The line of distinction between what ought and what ought not to be done, might, he thought, be rendered sufficiently obvious. Where
782Mr. Becker
804803802801de vicineto?"de vicineto800 rose, and spoke in substance as follows:804803802801de vicineto?"de vicineto800Mr. Hobhouse
823822821820l.l.,l.l.;l.819818817nullum tempus occurritregiBut to be hanged for nonsense is the devil.""To die for treason is a common evil,816815814813812It was not read."impeditus,"811forbearance810followed809808807806 resumed. My learned friend forgets that I allude to the debates of a former parliament; but I beg to say, that I am always obliged to any gentleman who recalls me from any improper course of argument, especially when he does it with the politeness of my learned friend. But to return—the words of the chief justice of Chester were, "Let hon. gentlemen consider next what the banners were; one of them had a female figure, with a bloody dagger in her hand; that was necessarily connected with an altera-
823822821820l.l.,l.l.;l.819818817nullum tempus occurritregiBut to be hanged for nonsense is the devil.""To die for treason is a common evil,816815814813812It was not read."impeditus,"811forbearance810followed809808807806Mr. Hobhouse
830l.829828827826825824 said, that after the extent to which the discussion had been protracted, he thought it would be an abuse of the patience of the House if he were to occupy their time, in using more argument than was necessary; but he was sure the house would feel, after the many personal appeals which had been made to him in the course of the debate, that, independently of the situation which he held, and his responsibility as a minister of the Crown, he should not stand justified if he did not enter into some explanation upon the question. That he had delayed doing so until that moment, was owing to the declaration of the hon baronet that not only the Manchester magistrates, but also the executive government were culpable in those transactions. He did not object to the executive government being held responsible for their conduct, and therefore he would enter into an explanation of that conduct; but before he did this, he begged to say a word as to the situation, of government and of the House itself with respect to this question. And here he must protest against the assertion that any of the transactions at Manchester were under the direction of his Majesty's government. He could state that government was quite distinct from the whole of these proceedings; that all the matters
830l.829828827826825824The Marquis of Londonderry
841840839838 said, that after the length of discussion into which this question had gone, it was not his intention to occupy the time of the House, because he thought the speech of his hon. and learned friend, and the very candid statement he had made on this occasion, had not only relieved him from the necessity of addressing many observations to the House, but must have convinced those who sat around him that his motion could not be supported. The hon. baronet, in his opening speech, attached great blame upon two parties who were entirely relieved by the speech of his hon. and learned friend, namely, his majesty's ministers and the magistrates. What was the charge against his majesty's ministers, made by the hon. baronet and
841840839838The Attorney General
843 rose to reply. He said, that after the ample discussion which the subject had undergone, he would detain the House but a few moments. The case remained precisely where it was; for the noble marquis and the hon. and learned gentlemen opposite, and all their adherents, seemed determined to shut their eyes to the real and great question, and to endeavour to turn the attention of the House to minute parts of it. They talked of it as a question between certain persons who had been aggrieved, and those by whom they had been aggrieved, instead of a question between the people of England and his majesty's government. That the people assembled at a public meeting were to have the military let loose upon them, and that it was to be held that no one was amenable for that act, surely afforded the strongest ground for parliamentary inquiry. The House ought to be informed by an inquiry at the bar, whether the troops had committed military execution without the authority of the magistrates, and had of their own head perpetrated the violences which had occurred. They ought to be informed whether ministers stood clear on the subject. Seeing the correspondence that existed between the magistrates and his majesty's ministers; seeing that the latter had published the letters of the magistrates, but had not ventured to lay before the House their answers; seeing the ungracious answer to the sheriffs of London put into the mouth of his majesty, who was made to say, that the citizens of London could not know the previous transactions and circumstances at Manchester; seeing all this, it was difficult to believe that what had taken place was not, in a great measure, the result of directions from his majesty's government. As to its being too late for the investigation, that he denied. The time that had elapsed had only served to divest the subject of all false appearances, and to exhibit it in its true shape and colours. The noble lord had made his statements lightly, and without any shadow of proof. The attacks of the military upon the people were distinctly
843Sir F. Burdett
omni exceptione major expressed himself satisfied with the explanation of the hon. member, as it appeared that he was not an advocate of that extended justice to which he had alluded. The noble lord had stated that which was a perfect truism: he had said, that he could rely upon the present construction of the House of Commons. No man would dispute the noble lord's intimate acquaintance with the formation of the House: he was a witness, omni exceptione majorSir F. Burdett
845 professed himself ready to submit to whatever the Speaker might judge correct in the course of debate. The real question at issue was, whether in future the people of England should be allowed to exercise their undoubted and unalienable right of meeting in any manner and in any numbers, for any lawful purpose; or whether the intestine war, which the noble Secretary at War had said had been carried on against them for the last five years, was still to be continued. He was convinced that the people were in no way hostile to the institutions of the country; but they thought themselves entitled to the constitution, and to all those rights which the constitution gave them; above all, to that great right of free election of their representatives for the protection of their interests and
845Sir F. Burdett
 —I rise to order. My hon. friend will forgive me; but it is irregular to allude to a former debate [Order, order!].Mr. Serjeant Onslow.
805, in the narrative quoted by the gallant member for Southwark, and who saw, let it be recollected, the whole transaction from the room above that in which the magistrates were assembled, distinctly says, "I saw no missile used throughout the whole transaction." That their walking-sticks were used by the people when attacked, is likely enough. Mr. Stanley says, "No doubt the people defended themselves to the best of their power, as it was absolutely impossible for them to get away, and give the cavalry a clear passage, until the outer part of the mob had fallen back." Yet, what the ministers of the Crown, with all their power, have been unable to allege—what the magistrates of Lancashire, with all their local information, were unable to adduce—what the learned counsel for the prosecution, with all his talent and address, was unable to prove—namely, that the first aggression came from the people—this discovery was reserved for the learned gentleman opposite, who boldly assumes that all-important fact as a thing notorious and admitted on all sides. Sir, I repeat the direct contrary is the fact; the yeomanry attacked the people without warning, without provocation.805Mr. Stanley
799798de vicinetoprimâ facieex-partefacie797primâ facie796795794793792791790789788787786 spoke as follows:—Sir; I should not have expected to hear from my hon. and learned friend a complaint about the employment of depositions in this debate; since, where one of the speakers on this side has resorted to these narratives on oath, not fewer than three or four among the hon. gentlemen opposite have relied on private statements, to which the sanction of an oath is wanting. The balance, therefore, is not a little against those who complain of a departure from the evidence produced by the trial at York. The
799798de vicinetoprimâ facieex-partefacie797primâ facie796795794793792791790789788787786Mr. Horace Twiss
842 said, so much allusion had been made to the York meeting, that he thought he should be wanting in respect if he did not state his own opinion, that in the resolutions of that meeting the question of the legality of the assembly at Manchester was not prejudged; because particular words were inserted, qualifying the opinion and limiting the object of the people on that occasion. He felt called upon to say further, that in the speeches made on that occasion, his friends who were opposed to him did not prejudge the question: they did not state that the meeting was legally assembled, but they said that the transactions required investigation. Having said thus much, he had only one other remark in answer to what fell from the gentlemen on the other side, as to the reason why he could not vote for inquiry formerly; namely, that a prosecution was pending. Undoubtedly that was one of the reasons that he gave; but he also gave as a reason, that these circumstances never could be inquired into by parliament with any hope of coming to a satisfactory conclusion. But if he was of that opinion formerly, he must say that the speech of the hon. and learned gentleman (Mr. Scarlett) had completely convinced him, that, to enter into inquiry would be useless, and that the persons who were injured had a remedy in a court of law. The learned gentleman had acquitted the magistrates of blame: he had stated that the yeomanry advanced without authority. Was not that a subject for investigation in a court of law? He had always understood that a military person in command, If his troops acted against the people without orders, was amenable to a court of law; and it appeared to him that the not bringing these
842Mr. Stuart Wortley
783 said, lie thought the measures pursued by the magistrates on the 16th of August had saved the town of Manchester from the greatest disturbance and riot. Let the House look at the state of the county at that period, the organized system of communication which was going on, and the drillings, together with the assembling with banners—let them look at all these circumstances, and then calmly say whether the magistrates acted imprudently in issuing the warrant to apprehend Mr. Hunt and the other leaders of that meeting. From the state in which the hustings were, it was impossible that the warrant could be executed without the aid of the military. The magistrates had a great duty to perform; they did it to the best of their power, and they took the responsibility on themselves. They were called upon to decide on a sudden emergency, what was best for the safety of the town; and if they had erred, their conduct was open to be inquired into by a court of law. With regard to the people, it was notorious that the
783Mr. Egerton
844 appealed to the House, whether any hon. member had a right to put a forced construction upon his words? What he stated was, that if the military
844Mr. Wilmot
 was satisfied that he need not repeat the words which had fallen from the hon. baronet in the heat of the moment, to convince him that his conduct was irregular.The Speaker
837836835834833832831 said, he had no doubt that the noble lord's speech was well calculated for its purpose, and that it would have its impression. It was a speech partaking more of the nature of magi than of reason. If it had not reason in it, it had some-
837836835834833832831Mr. Scarlett
780animus779778l.l.l.777776 rose. He said, it was perfectly consistent with the official duty of the hon. and learned member who had spoken last but one on this subject—he meant his majesty's solicitor-general—to do the ministers all the service he could, by vindicating the magistrates and yeomanry from the heavy charges which had been brought against them. It was natural for that hon. and learned gentleman, in the view which he took of the events of the 16th of August, and of those immediately preceding them, to describe the conduct of the magistrates as upon all occasions temperate and judicious, and that of the people as irregular and criminal—or, if not criminal, as very little short of it in intention. But, notwithstanding his talent and his ingenuity, he had not succeeded in disguising the hideous deformity of the Manchester massacre. It was unnecessary for him to analyze all the arguments which that hon. and learned gentleman had used; it would be enough for him to show that sufficient grounds were laid for an inquiry. It was not necessary for him to refute all the statements of the other side; it would be enough for him to show that there were counter statements. At the same time, he could not help noticing the attempt which had been made to introduce into the discussion evidence which the other side had not dared to offer to a court of justice. The solicitor-general had formerly told them, that the best way of obtaining a fit decision upon the question would be by bringing all the evidence which bore upon it into a court of justice. The solicitor-general now disdained to follow his own advice, and brought forward testimony which his employers had carefully withheld from the proper tribunals. Those employers on a former occasion had triumphantly taunted the friends of the people with being 10th to enter the courts of justice, and had said, that whenever they did so, the emptiness of their accusations would
780animus779778l.l.l.777776Sir Robert Wilson
 said, he felt for the sufferers at Manchester; but he felt also for the British parliament, which, he hoped, would not go down to posterity with the stigma of having passed over this disgraceful transaction without inquiry. The hon. baronet proceeded to read a narrative of the events of the 16th of August, which he had obtained from an individual of the highest respectability who was present. It corroborated, in the chief points, statements which have already appeared, describing the meeting as of a most peaceable description, until the violent attack of the yeomanry produced the disorder which led to the fatal events of that day. The paper was from a gentleman in orders, named Wimbush, who had been an hour and a half on the ground, and gave a frightful description of the havoc committed on the multitude, whom he compared to a flock of sheep devoted to the slaughter. He also stated, that the avenues through which the people attempted to fly were closed by the military, who, in a threatening attitude drove them back, and he fled for refuge into the House of a friend. The allegations contained in this paper, would, if necessary be supported at the bar by the gentleman who had written it. Sir William said, he had himself been at Manchester a few days after the 16th of August, and had, from his inquiries, every reason to believe the statement in the narrative correct.Sir W. De Crespigny
 observed, that the explanation of his hon. colleague as to the York county meeting, rendered any observations from him on the subject unnecessary.Lord Milton
 said, he did not deny the general proposition, but he would deny that there existed any necessity for the instruction proposed.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
848 said, that the wanton extravagance of ministers was not to be endured. Seventeen millions were spent annually upon our military establishments in time of peace. What must it be if a war were to break out? He was satisfied that a saving of four millions might be ef-
848Mr. Maberly
 objected to these preliminary discussions, because they enabled gentlemen to make bold and exaggerated assertions, the fallacy of which could not be detected until the details were entered into in the committee. The lion, member had stated the expenditure at 17 millions, forgetting that 5 millions was a dead expense for pensions, half-pay, and other allowances: so that 12 millions only remained for the government of this immense empire; and from this the hon. gentleman maintained that 4 millions might be saved. The hon. gentleman would not have risked such a statement in the committee. There was no practicable economy that ministers were not desirous of making.The Marquis of Londonderry
 was happy that this resolution had been brought forward. When, night after night, such vain attempts at reduction were made by a few, against overbearing ministerial majorities, such motions could not be too frequently made. The greater the dead expense which must be borne, the more necessary it was to economise in those charges that could be diminished. He saw plainly that the principles of a military government were in a gradual course of introduction; and he was much more suspicious of so large a standing army under the control of the present ministers, than of other persons. He was quite sure that large savings might be made in the Ordnance department, as he would show when the House came to the items.Mr. Calcraft
851 assured the hon. member, that when the salaries of the clerks alluded to had been augmented, they had been deprived of certain perquisites which they previously enjoyed. The Ceylon establishment had been increased, because the Ordnance had not only Columbo to serve but Tricomalee and Pont de Galli. In. Malta, during the war, the local government paid a portion of the expense, which now altogether devolved upon the Ordnance department. It was a curious fact, that the fortifications at Malta, on which 600 guns were mounted, would, if extend into one straight line, occupy 50 miles of ground. With respect to the garrison. at Heligoland, the argument of the. Hon. gentleman was most fallacious. He might as well say, that because when Gibraltar was taken it was supplied with a garrison
851Mr. Ward
852 said, that the right hon. member had introduced a most dangerous doctrine with respect to compensations. He had stated that a certain number of persons had been accustomed, for a considerable period, to receive perquisites and allowances of a particular description, in lieu of which compensation was now made their descendants; so that because A, B, C, and D, were lineally descended from certain public officers, they were to be remunerated, in consequence of an abuse having been removed, by which their ancestors had profited; because a robbery was found out, and it was deemed necessary to prevent its recurrence, therefore those individuals were to receive compensations. No gentleman could think of supporting such a proposition unless he was affected by that sort of mania which pervaded the Ordnance department, where they were so powerfully inoculated with the disease of extravagance, that they could not get rid of it. Unless gentlemen were possessed by such a devil as this, it was impossible that they could state, much less agree to, a proposition of this nature. It reminded him of an attempt made by an individual some time ago to procure compensation; and it appeared to him that the person in question could have borrowed the idea only from the Ordnance department. The magistrates of Middlesex, finding that a number of the most depraved characters were in the habit of visiting Cold-bath-fields prison, set an inquiry on foot to discover the reason of it. At last it came out, that a clerk at one of the police-offices was in the habit of handing up to the; magistrates a list of persons who wished to visit their friends in gaol, and that from each of the applicants, he received a fee. When this was discovered, what did the clerk do? Why, he called out for compensation. He quoted high authorities in his favour, and observed that they had their compensations, and he must have his. What did the magistrates say? They told him that he should have no compensation, because they did not understand the system of rewarding individuals for their misconduct. He entreated the House to consider how they must be regarded by the country, if, after so many forcible appeals to their justice, they should still continue to disregard every consideration of economy. They
852Mr. Bennet
 could, not but regret that gentlemen should avail themselves of their privilege to slander individuals who had no means of answering the charges brought against them.Mr. Ward
 said, it was a fallacy to argue that the Dutch kept the Cape against a superior, maritime power, seeing that we had taken it from them.Mr. Ward
l.l.853l denied that the revenues of the Cape had ever defrayed the expenses of its civil and military establishments, when that colony was in the possession of the Dutch. The civil establishment of the Cape was paid out of the revenues of the colony, and the surplus went towards defraying the expenses of the military establishment. The hon. gentleman complained of the amount of the salary of the governor of the Cape, as compared with that of a high officer in this country, without taking into consideration the enormous expenses to which governors of colonies were of necessity subjected.l.l.853lMr. Goulburn
l.l. said, that every exertion ought to be made to compel the colonies to defray their own expenditure. The salary of the governor of the Cape was 10,000l.l.Mr. Warre
 denied that he had made any sweeping charges. In challenging particular facts, he had been anxious to confine himself to those facts, and not to indulge in generalities.Mr. Hume
s.l850lll contended for the right of parliament to review the amount of the civil list, and hoped that before the year was expired, the amount of that establishment would be reduced. If ever a House of Commons had been indifferent to the people's purse, it was when they established the civil list at 870,000s.l850lllMr. Hume
s.l.ll.lllll.l.l. entered, into a review of the several items which composed the vote. He said that all the Ordnance establishments abroad ought, to be considerably reduced. The Gibraltar establishment ought to be diminished: so ought the Malta, which had been considerably augmented since 1808. In Barbadoes the Ordnance expense was increased from 487s.l.ll.lllll.l.l.Mr. Hume
849 contended, that as the civil list was granted for the reign, no reduction could be made in it, though he admitted that both it and the collection of the revenue might be proper subjects of debate. The instruction to the committee, if carried, could have no effect, as the utmost economy had been observed in the formation of the estimates. It was very convenient for the other side to keep
849Mr. Huskisson
 said, that when the Gape of Good Hope was in the possession of the Dutch, it did not cost the government a single stiver. Why, then, should it be expensive to this country? Some inquiry ought to take place on this subject.Mr. W. Smith
847 said, that at a period
847Mr. Chetwynd
 said, that when the gentlemen opposite declared the impossibility of reducing the estimates, he could not forget a similar declaration made in the same quarter a fort night before the House of Commons deprived the ministers of the property tax. On that occasion, the secretary at war declared he could not reduce the army estimates; yet a fortnight after the repeal of the property tax, his noble friend came down with reduced estimates, although a week or two before, all, economy was declared impossible. Let them now look to the pension the and say if it was not possible to reduce that branch of the pubic expenditure. Let them look to that part of it filled by the names of members of that House. He did not allude to the noble marquis opposite, nor to the chancellor of the exchequer, nor to the president of the board of trade—all these he should always wish to see members of that House; but let them look to the right and the left, and say if there were not some members in their view who ought not to hold their pensions and their seats. Against the inordinate expenditure of the government he must protest; its inevitable effect, if continued, must be to break down altogether the middle classes of society. There would then only remain the very rich, and very poor, and the valuable link hitherto connecting both, would no longer remain. He could not help thinking that government incurred great deal of this unnecessary expenditure, in consequence of their not being sufficiently acquainted with the real state of the country.Lord Milton
862 contended, that the grant, in the first instance, was made unconditionally. The grants respecting all the islands were made to the king and his heirs for ever, on condition that the Crown would afford security to the settlers. He was willing to admit that it was one condition of the grant that the fortifications should be repaired, but the fund was for an entire century applied, with the knowledge of parliament, precisely as it was now intended to be applied. Having for so long a period been so applied without any doubt having been expressed as to the propriety of its application; he thought it was too hard to raise a question upon it now. The application of the fund was known to the committees of that House. During the time of queen Anne, the fund was applied to the repairs of fortifications: the fortresses having been neglected* and much dilapidated, the inhabitants applied to the Crown on the subject; and in consequence of their re-
862Sir C. Long
 said, that the right hon. gentleman appeared to him to have made out no case whatever. The question before the House lay in a very narrow compass. The right hon. gentleman denied that the application of the fund was confined to the repairing of fortresses. Whether the fact was so or not, was a matter of minor importance: the question was, whether it was better to apply the funds to the repairing of fortresses, or to the corruption of members of that House? The right hon. gentleman said, that it had been so for a century back. That only showed the necessity of something being done to check the influence introduced into that House, or to render that House at least less liable to such influence. What practice of a more flagrant kind could be mentioned than the practice of members of that House transferring public money into their own pockets? The long practice of members putting public money into their own pockets was no argument why it should longer, be endured. Let the fund have been granted for whatever purposes the right hon. gentleman might allege; let it be at the disposal of the Crown or not; still, like every other grant, it must have been intended for the benefit, riot for the detriment of the public. It became parliament, therefore, to see how it was applied.Sir F. Burdett
l. said, the 100,000l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
oyez865 said, there could not be a vote of a single shilling proposed to the House on which it was not competent for every member to ask such questions as he thought for the benefit of the public
oyez865Mr. Bennet
 said, that though he fully admitted that all grievances could be entered upon when the House was in a committee of supply, he still thought it would exceed all the ingenuity of the gentlemen opposite to apply that principle to the present case; unless, indeed, they were prepared to contend, that it would be a public grievance if her Majesty was not crowned at the ensuing coronation. It appeared clear to him that it required an act of the Crown to authorize the coronation of her Majesty; for though her Majesty was, in the eye of the law, the consort of the King, yet there was no prerogative of the Crown more, sound, or more indisputable, than that it rested with his Majesty to decide whether his consort should participate in the honours of the coronation or not. He might, however, as well now say, that neither he, nor any of the other servants of his Majesty were prepared to recommend an act of the Crown to include her Majesty in the ensuing ceremonial. If the gentlemen opposite wished to revive the dying, or, as he should rather have said, the dead embers of that painful controversy, which had recently agitated the country, he was content to leave the responsibility to their discretion, or, more properly speaking, to their indiscretion.The Marquis of Londonderry
 explained the manner in which promotion took place in the artillery, stating that the number of cadets would be so gradually reduced, by first appointing them second lieutenants on half pay, that they were likely to be soon reduced to 100, and until then, no new cadets were to be admitted.Mr. Ward
l. observed, that if the papers on the table were to be relied upon, it was as plain as a pike-staff that the education of each cadet cost 1,775l.Mr. Bennet
 stated, that the sums for repairs were not for new works, but for works some time begun. He thought that the present arrangement of the estimates, where the items were under separate heads, was better than the plan proposed by the hon. member. He was not surprised that the hon. member wished the removal of the powder establishment at Feversham, &c. as that idea had entered his own imagination three years ago; but, on going down to Feversham, he found that the expense of removal would be greater than that for keeping them in their present state for several years. He defended the field-train on the ground of its being under the command of an old officer of eighty, who had performed meritorious services.Mr. Ward
 said, it was not the intention of government, in the present session to ask for any additional vote for the expenses of the coronation.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said it had been a mooted question whether in the artillery it was better to retain the officers and dismiss the men, or dismiss the officers and retain the men. The present master-general of the Ordnance was of opinion, that the former was the better plan, owing to the expense of an artillery officer's education, and the science and experience which it was essential he should possess. The Finance Committee of 1817 were also of a similar opinion.Mr. Ward
 observed, that there was no medical establishment attached to the artillery in 1792, each corps being attended by some medical practitioner, in whatever station it was quartered; but this system was found by the Ordnance-board to be so inefficient and expensive, that it was deemed expedient to adopt the present plan.Mr. Ward
878 observed that the hon. clerk
878Mr. Barnal
 denied that the salaries of the officers in the Ordnance department m Dublin were too large, considering the responsibility which they incurred.Mr. Ward
 said, that though any matter of grievance might with perfect order be discussed in a committee of supply, he should abstain from entering into the question which had been raised. He only begged to protest against being supposed to assent to the principle that the Queen had not a right to be crowned. That question not being regularly before him, he did not wish to give an opinion one way or the other.Mr. Brougham
 said, that the motion would apply to the other islands as well as to Barbadoes. With respect to the charge of corruption, the character of his right hon. friend was a sufficient answer to any imputation of that kind.Mr. Goulburn
 maintained, that if the proposed reduction were adopted, the service would be full of officers who were too old for employment. This had been the case m the peninsular war, where, until the duke of Wellington had taken measures to prevent it, men who had not sufficient vigour of body had been at the head of the artillery. At last lieutenant-colonel Dixon, who was only captain of" artillery was placed in command of that corps, and had under him a force of 7,000 men. Lieutenant-colonel Wood also commanded at Waterloo a force of 7,000 artillerymen, and 6,000 horses.Sir H. Hardinge
863 contended, that the fund^ should be applied to colonial purposes, and should not be made the source of corrupt influence. With respect to Ina right of' parliament to interfere, it could not be doubted. If parliament had no
863Mr. Monck
l. said, it would be recollected, that in the last session 100,000l.Mr. Monck
l.l.866 rose, not for the purpose of
l.l.866Mr. Hume
l. complained of the expense in the medical department, which was at present nine times greater than it was. There were only five surgeons in 1792, and there were now forty-one, although the increase of men in the artillery had been only 1,200. Thinking that the director-general and his assistant, with the surgeon-general and his assistants, might well be reduced, he felt it his duty to move that 3,778l.Mr. Hume
868l.l.l. said that the whole sum voted for that establishment this year had been 15,047868l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 said, he was aware that artillery officers should have all the practice possible, but in fact they had now no practice, and from the length of service of most of the officers, if they were put on half pay, there was no doubt that when called into activity at any future time, they would be perfectly efficient; so that the present vote was not one of efficiency, but simply of expense.Mr. Hume
 said, the right hon. gentleman had given but half an answer to the question put to him. He had said, that no vote would be required, on account of the coronation, in this session—would there in any subsequent session.Mr. Hume
877l.s.s.52,462Total annual allowance,
52,462Total annual allowance,5456He has a pension also as senior officer of the artillery
5456He has a pension also as senior officer of the artillery01,003He is colonel-commandant of a battalion of artillery
01,003He is colonel-commandant of a battalion of artillerys.£**
s.£**
52,462Total annual allowance,
52,462Total annual allowance,5456He has a pension also as senior officer of the artillery
5456He has a pension also as senior officer of the artillery01,003He is colonel-commandant of a battalion of artillery
01,003He is colonel-commandant of a battalion of artillerys.£**
s.£**l.l.l.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.876l.l.l.875l.l.l.en princel.l.874l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.873l.l.l.l.872l.l.s.;l.l.l.buildings or repairs;l.l.l.871l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.870l.l.l.l.l.l.l.;l.;l.869l.d.s.l. said, he had so many objections to offer to the numerous items of which the extraordinaries were composed, that he scarcely knew where to begin. Although the vote now proposed was only for the small sum of 39,124877l.s.s.52,462Total annual allowance,
52,462Total annual allowance,5456He has a pension also as senior officer of the artillery
5456He has a pension also as senior officer of the artillery01,003He is colonel-commandant of a battalion of artillery
01,003He is colonel-commandant of a battalion of artillerys.£**
s.£**
52,462Total annual allowance,
52,462Total annual allowance,5456He has a pension also as senior officer of the artillery
5456He has a pension also as senior officer of the artillery01,003He is colonel-commandant of a battalion of artillery
01,003He is colonel-commandant of a battalion of artillerys.£**
s.£**l.l.l.l.s.l.l.l.l.l.876l.l.l.875l.l.l.en princel.l.874l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.873l.l.l.l.872l.l.s.;l.l.l.buildings or repairs;l.l.l.871l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.870l.l.l.l.l.l.l.;l.;l.869l.d.s.l.Mr. Hume
l. contended, that the establishment ought to be reduced to 40 or 30 pupils, and moved as an amendment a reduction of half the vote, or 3,305l.Mr. Hume
l.881l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.880l.l.l.l.labourersartificersl.ll.l.l.l.879Videl.l.l.*Videl.l.l.*l.*l. begged to offer a few observations on the estimate now before the committee. The total charge for the Ordnance in 1792 was 34,630l.881l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.880l.l.l.l.labourersartificersl.ll.l.l.l.879Videl.l.l.*Videl.l.l.*l.*l.Mr. Hume
l.l.861l.l.ll.860859l. said, he felt it his duty to object to the item of 5,900l.l.861l.l.ll.860859l.Mr. Creevey
l. asserted that the education of each cadet cost no more than 400l.Sir U. Burgh
l. maintained that the greatest economy had been observed at Woolwich, by a reduction of both masters and pupils. The estimate for this, was 1,700l.Sir U. Burgh
l. would state to the House what had been the origin of the establishments at Feversham and Wal-tham-abbey. At the close of the American war, the powder furnished by contractors, or otherwise purchased, was found to be of so bad a quality, that it was determined, by Mr. Pitt and the duke of Richmond, to have these establishments instituted. Not only had the article of gunpowder been greatly increased in value and quality, but the saving to the country had been immense since these establishments were founded. The profit realized in consequence, from 1789 to 1810, had been immense: 750,000l.Sir W. Congreve
 agreed with the hon. member in the view which he had taken of the establishment at Ballincollig.Sir J. Newport
895s.s.894 said, it was with great reluctance he opposed the motion of his hon. and learned friend. In doing so, he was not insensible to those feelings of humanity in which the measure had its origin; but he was compelled, in the discharge of his public duty, to give his negative to the bill. It was quite impossible that any party feeling or party view could influence any member on this subject; as it ought to be considered entirely on its own merits, which were, the interests of humanity, so far as those interests were compatible with the security of the public. The House was aware that this bill arose out of the report of a committee which had been appointed during the last session. He stated un-feignedly that he had the highest respect for the great talents, great discernment, and great experience of the members of the committee, than whom there could not be men better calculated for the impor-
895s.s.894The Solicitor-General
—Was he convicted of the burglary?Mr. Buxton.
900899898897896l..—There were seven cases of larceny charged against him, of four of those he was convicted; he was not convicted of the burglary. It was proved that he had cut down the timber from motives of malice against the proprietor of the land. He had thought it necessary to state the circumstance, not for the purpose of throwing any censure upon the committee, but to free the character of a venerable judge from the odium which might be thought to have been thrown by the report upon his memory.—In adverting to the bill before them, it appeared that the object of it was to take away, for the first offence, the punishment of death in cases of forgery of every description, save those of notes of the Bank of England. It was necessary, therefore, to consider the cases to which the bill applied. It applied to the forgery of wills—a crime easily committed, and by which families might be stript of their entire property. It applied also to the forgery of marriage registers—a crime which went to destroy not merely the property of families, but to affect the legitimacy and character of its members. It also applied to the forgery of deeds of conveyance of property to any amount, and cases of the transfer of stock—cases so very important, and on which depended property to a great amount. He recollected having been employed in one case where the party was charged with having committed forgery respecting the transfer of stock to the amount of 20,000900899898897896l.The Solicitor General
* rose, and addressed the House to the following purport:*Mr. Fowell Buxton
935934933932931930929928sub silentio,pro tempore.how927926925†Wilkins, p. 133. ‡Ibid. p. 143.**"On showing Mercy"On showing Mercy in Judgement.*924923922921920***91991891791691537Monaghan
37Monaghan54Lowth
54Lowth1215Down
1215Down411Armagh
411Armagh1824Antrim
1824AntrimLast five years during which the Offence was not capital.Last five years during which the Offence was not capital.First five years during which the Offence was capital.First five years during which the Offence was capital.
Last five years during which the Offence was not capital.Last five years during which the Offence was not capital.First five years during which the Offence was capital.First five years during which the Offence was capital.
37Monaghan
37Monaghan54Lowth
54Lowth1215Down
1215Down411Armagh
411Armagh1824Antrim
1824AntrimLast five years during which the Offence was not capital.Last five years during which the Offence was not capital.First five years during which the Offence was capital.First five years during which the Offence was capital.
Last five years during which the Offence was not capital.Last five years during which the Offence was not capital.First five years during which the Offence was capital.First five years during which the Offence was capital.914The number increased more than eleven-fold.45—4Stealing in Dwelling-houses
The number increased more than eleven-fold.45—4Stealing in Dwelling-housesThe number more than Quadrupled.31—7Horse-stealing
The number more than Quadrupled.31—7Horse-stealingThe number more than trebled.108—30Burglary
The number more than trebled.108—30BurglaryThe number more than doubled.77—31Highway Robbery
The number more than doubled.77—31Highway RobberyDuring the last five years,During the last five years,During the first five years,During the first five years,
During the last five years,During the last five years,During the first five years,During the first five years,
The number increased more than eleven-fold.45—4Stealing in Dwelling-houses
The number increased more than eleven-fold.45—4Stealing in Dwelling-housesThe number more than Quadrupled.31—7Horse-stealing
The number more than Quadrupled.31—7Horse-stealingThe number more than trebled.108—30Burglary
The number more than trebled.108—30BurglaryThe number more than doubled.77—31Highway Robbery
The number more than doubled.77—31Highway RobberyDuring the last five years,During the last five years,During the first five years,During the first five years,
During the last five years,During the last five years,During the first five years,During the first five years,913à fortiori912"Evertere domos totas, optantibus ipsis Dii faciles."911910909908907906905904903902901**; in rising to follow the hon. and learned gentleman, I should not do justice to my own feelings, if I did not express my satisfaction at the fair and candid statement which he has made; and I rejoice that no insurmountable difference as to principle appears to exist between that learned gentleman and my hon. and learned friend, the member for Knaresborough (sir J. Mackintosh). The Solicitor-general has stated, that no efficient substitute for capital punishment has as yet been discovered, and therefore that, as yet, the House is not in a condition to dismiss that species of penalty. Now, sir, I should be guilty of insincerity if I were to contend that transportation was any punishment at all. In fact, it is a privilege, and a privilege open to as many of his majesty's subjects as may qualify themselves for its enjoyment, by the commission of a transportable offence. Indeed, if the present were a time to enter into such a discussion, I would undertake to show, by documents in my possession, that transportation is neither considered as a punishment, nor has the effects of a punishment. But, how does the hon. and learned gentleman assume that there is no other mode of secondary punishment, when we have annual returns from the office of the secretary of state, giving the most flattering account of the success of another species of secondary punishment, namely, the Hulks? I am not prepared to state that that mode of punishment is in a perfect state; on the contrary, I entirely distrust its efficiency. But I am prepared to declare, that imprisonment, with hard labour and occasional solitary confinement, and constant inspection, and rigid discipline, is, in fact, the punishment you require. But, how stands the solicitor-general's argument? "We, the officers of the Crown, the legal and responsible advisers of his majesty, have certainly neglected our duty in not having provided a secondary punishment; and therefore, let those who are in no sense the legal and responsible advisers of
935934933932931930929928sub silentio,pro tempore.how927926925†Wilkins, p. 133. ‡Ibid. p. 143.**"On showing Mercy"On showing Mercy in Judgement.*924923922921920***91991891791691537Monaghan
37Monaghan54Lowth
54Lowth1215Down
1215Down411Armagh
411Armagh1824Antrim
1824AntrimLast five years during which the Offence was not capital.Last five years during which the Offence was not capital.First five years during which the Offence was capital.First five years during which the Offence was capital.
Last five years during which the Offence was not capital.Last five years during which the Offence was not capital.First five years during which the Offence was capital.First five years during which the Offence was capital.
37Monaghan
37Monaghan54Lowth
54Lowth1215Down
1215Down411Armagh
411Armagh1824Antrim
1824AntrimLast five years during which the Offence was not capital.Last five years during which the Offence was not capital.First five years during which the Offence was capital.First five years during which the Offence was capital.
Last five years during which the Offence was not capital.Last five years during which the Offence was not capital.First five years during which the Offence was capital.First five years during which the Offence was capital.914The number increased more than eleven-fold.45—4Stealing in Dwelling-houses
The number increased more than eleven-fold.45—4Stealing in Dwelling-housesThe number more than Quadrupled.31—7Horse-stealing
The number more than Quadrupled.31—7Horse-stealingThe number more than trebled.108—30Burglary
The number more than trebled.108—30BurglaryThe number more than doubled.77—31Highway Robbery
The number more than doubled.77—31Highway RobberyDuring the last five years,During the last five years,During the first five years,During the first five years,
During the last five years,During the last five years,During the first five years,During the first five years,
The number increased more than eleven-fold.45—4Stealing in Dwelling-houses
The number increased more than eleven-fold.45—4Stealing in Dwelling-housesThe number more than Quadrupled.31—7Horse-stealing
The number more than Quadrupled.31—7Horse-stealingThe number more than trebled.108—30Burglary
The number more than trebled.108—30BurglaryThe number more than doubled.77—31Highway Robbery
The number more than doubled.77—31Highway RobberyDuring the last five years,During the last five years,During the first five years,During the first five years,
During the last five years,During the last five years,During the first five years,During the first five years,913à fortiori912"Evertere domos totas, optantibus ipsis Dii faciles."911910909908907906905904903902901**Mr. Speaker
, clerk to the sitting magistrates Guildhall.Mr. Payne
, clerk to the Lord Mayor, 30 years.Mr. Hobbler
, clerk to the Police-Office, Worship-street, 30 years.Mr. Yardly
, clerk to the Police-Office, White-chapel, since its establishment, 26 years.Mr. Thompson
952951950949948Of Manslaughter.'Guilty,"Guilty:Not947s.946l.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.l.d.s.s.d.s.945s.,s.s.l.s.s.s.,s.,l.d.s.,d.d.s.s.l.s.l.;l.;l.;l;l.;l.;l.;s.s.,l.l.;s.;l.s.;l.944s.l.l.;l.;l.;s.;s.d.l.d.d.s.;s.,l.s.,l.s.,l.s.s.,s.;l.;s.l.,l.,s.d.s.,l.;d.d.s.s.s.d.;s.l.;s.;l.s.;d.;s.l.l.;943s.;l.l.;s.;l.s.l.s.l.s.;l.d.;s.l.s.;l.s.s.l.s.942941Should all conspire to cheat us with a lie?"Weave such agreeing truths—or how, or why,Should all conspire to cheat us with a, lie?"Weave such agreeing truths—or how, or why,In various ages born, in various parts,"Whence but from Heaven could men un-skill'd in arts,940939938937936, city solicitor for 30 years.952951950949948Of Manslaughter.'Guilty,"Guilty:Not947s.946l.s.d.s.d.s.d.s.d.l.d.s.s.d.s.945s.,s.s.l.s.s.s.,s.,l.d.s.,d.d.s.s.l.s.l.;l.;l.;l;l.;l.;l.;s.s.,l.l.;s.;l.s.;l.944s.l.l.;l.;l.;s.;s.d.l.d.d.s.;s.,l.s.,l.s.,l.s.s.,s.;l.;s.l.,l.,s.d.s.,l.;d.d.s.s.s.d.;s.l.;s.;l.s.;d.;s.l.l.;943s.;l.l.;s.;l.s.l.s.l.s.;l.d.;s.l.s.;l.s.s.l.s.942941Should all conspire to cheat us with a lie?"Weave such agreeing truths—or how, or why,Should all conspire to cheat us with a, lie?"Weave such agreeing truths—or how, or why,In various ages born, in various parts,"Whence but from Heaven could men un-skill'd in arts,940939938937936Mr. Newman
953 eulogized the eloquence and ability of the exposition given by the hon. member for Weymouth, but stated that he could not concur in the propriety of repealing the law by which forgery was rendered punishable with death. He contended that this crime was the crime of education and trade: and that for the protection of property, in the present state of society, it was necessary to inflict upon those who were guilty of it the severest punishment which could be invented. He went on to maintain that the statements in the report were not borne out by the evidence appended to it; and he exemplified his position by reference to various parts of the testimony, especially to that of sir A. Macdonald. It had been stated that a number of bankers had formed an association for the purpose of prosecuting persons who had committed forgeries, but that the severity of the law had deterred them, in many instances, from proceeding. Not one of the members of this association had, however, been examined before the committee; and yet, defective as the evidence was, they now came forward and asked for a most essential alteration in the law, which they described as unfit for the present constitution of society. He did not mean to defend all the minor enactments of the criminal law; but he took his stand on one of the greatest offences that could be committed against such a community as that in which we lived. If an alteration were made in the state of the law with respect to that offence, it would become necessary to alter the whole of the criminal code, from murder to hedge-breaking. For whom, he would ask, were they to legislate? Were they to legislate for the whole community, or only for individuals. Was a man to tell him that he would prosecute, provided he (Mr. Bright) legislated as
953Mr. Bright
955 said, he should have thought it improper to offer a single remark to the House on the present occasion, after the forcible impression which had been made by the able and eloquent speech of the hon. member for Weymouth—a speech highly creditable to his talents, but still more creditable to his humanity—if it had hot been for the allusion made to himself by the hon. gentleman who had just sat down. Now, he would contend that the punishment of death being certain to follow the crime of forgery had, in many instances, occasioned the escape of the offender altogether; because individuals could not bear the idea of prosecuting when the penalty was so severe. With respect to the individual referred to, he was only 16 years of age; and, under all the circumstances of the case, it was felt by those who were interested in bringing him to punishment, that it would be the greatest possible cruelty to prosecute him capitally. There had been established for many years past a society of bankers who united to protect themselves from forgery; and, although a solicitor was appointed who had nothing to do but to prosecute, and to receive his fee for acting professionally, yet it was well known that cases did occur, in the course of which means were taken to prevent the prosecution of individuals charged with forgery. He had known persons the most ignorant, the most helpless, the most artless, who had been betrayed into the commission of this offence. He did not mean to say that they were not guilty of a great crime; but certainly they were not fit objects for capital punishment. There was, he recollected, an individual found guilty of forgery some time ago, and ordered for execution. As there were some peculiarities in his case, he, knowing the humanity of the noble lord at the head of the home department, had taken the liberty of making application to him in behalf of the culprit. This was on the Saturday, and the convict was to have been executed on the Tuesday following. A respite was, however, procured; and he had some conversation with the unfortunate convict. He had been found guilty of uttering several forged bank notes, and for each note he so uttered, he had received five shillings. This poor creature was an Irishman, who came over here to make hay; and he could not convince him that he had committed any
955Mr. J. Smith
956l.;l.;l. observed, that the petitions on the table afforded abundant proof that the sense of the country was adverse to making forgery a capital crime. In answer to what had fallen from the learned solicitor-general, he would ask that learned gentleman, whether, if he had a ward at that university, where the learned gentleman had obtained so much honour, and if a friend of that ward were to commit a forgery upon him for 50956l.;l.;l.Mr. R. Martin
l.959l.958957 did not mean to enter at large into the arguments on which the proposition of his hon. and learned friend for an alteration in the state of the criminal law was founded. The lateness of the hour, and the admirable speech of the hon. member for Weymouth, rendered such a course not only unnecessary but improper. He would, however, make a few observations founded on facts, which he thought would clearly show the necessity of repealing the punishment of death for the crime of forgery, except for the forgery of bank-notes. The solicitor-general had described the forgery of wills as a crime which might visit whole families with ruin, and which, therefore, ought to be prevented by the utmost severity of punishment. But it should be observed that the forging of wills was an exceedingly rare offence. During a connexion of thirteen years with that court before which all disputed wills must necessarily be brought, but three instances of forged wills had occurred. The learned gentleman would perhaps argue, that the rareness of the offence was to be attributed to the severity of the punishment. But let the House mark the fact—in not one of those three instances had there been any prosecution whatsoever. In each of them the individual guilty of the crime had escaped with perfect impunity. As if to render the circumstance more extrordinary—as if the more effectually to controvert the learned gentleman's proposition—it so happened that one of those cases had occurred that very morning, A person had forged a will for the purpose of defrauding a brother, who was heir to a certain property. The offender confessed his crime, and he (Dr. L.) had read the letter, which was, in consequence, written by the party against whom the fraud was meditated. He there said—"I have no inclination to be vindictive. Let me have the property, and I will not prosecute." He believed that in the other cases of this nature the same thing occurred. But forging a will was
l.959l.958957Dr. Lushington
960 thought this was not the time for discussing the state of the police. That subject could be better entered upon when the report of the gaol committee came before the House. It was a grave question, whether that punishment should be withdrawn from the crime of forgery, which for ages had been regarded
960Mr. Nolan
961Cuncta prius tentanda. concurred with his learned friend who spoke last but one, in thinking that the onus lay upon those who wished to maintain the propriety of capital punishments in these cases, to establish it by proof. If any man entertained a doubt whether the penalty of death was absolutely necessary, he was bound to vote for the bill. Nothing short of absolute necessity, the safety of the state, and the preservation of society, could justify its continuance, 961Cuncta prius tentanda.Mr. Wynn
962 expressed himself in favour of going into the committee. It was right that parliament should look to the state of the public mind, which was manifested by the number of petitions that had been presented from time to time. These petitions had already produced some effect. A committee was appointed in the first instance; and though he was against the appointment of that committee, it was not because he objected to the mitigation of the criminal law, but because he thought the object might have been more effectually accomplished by other means. There was not the slightest ground for charging the committee with a predetermination to support the measure in question. The House had appointed the committee in consequence of the numerous petitions presented on the part of the people. That committee now laid before the House the grounds upon which their recommendation was founded, and the petitions on the table pointed out the course recommended by the committee. He could therefore say with confidence that the recommendation of the committee, so far from being contrary to, was in accordance with the wishes and feelings of the people of England. One argument urged against the proposed bill had given him considerable pain, namely, that the punishment of death ought to be continued, because we were deficient in effective secondary punishments. Now, he could not consent to the continuation of capital punishments upon such grounds, if it was contended, that the state of the people of this country was such as to render secondary punishments ineffective, the argument in favour of capital punishments would be a good one; but he maintained that this was not the case.—A little time would enable us so to arrange our prisons as to make secondary punishments effectual in preventing crime. The solicitor-general had observed, and truly, that we had not had much experience of the effects of hard labour upon criminals; but then, let that mode of punishment be tried, and he had no doubt but it would prove effectual. He had not made up his mind upon that part of the measure which regarded the forging of wills and other private instruments. That part of
962Mr. W. Courtenay
964pari materie963in said, he was anxious to state to the House, as shortly as possible, the reasons which would influence his vote on the present occasion; and in doing so, he did not consider that he at all involved himself in a refusal to take into consideration those legislative measures proposed by the hon. member for Weymouth for reducing the standard of punishment in criminal cases. He flattered himself that the House, in what it had already done, had given to the country an earnest of its determination to do all that could be practically done upon this subject. In entering upon this subject he did not feel it necessary to follow the hon. member for Weymouth through this new and perfect system of police which was to take charge of men, and conduct them clear of all the snares and temptations of life. That subject, however important in itself, was not involved in the discussion of this evening. The real question narrowed itself into this—ought they to pass this bill for remitting capital punishment in all cases of forgery, save those upon the Bank of England? They were to inquire whether this humane measure was supported by the sound sense of legislative arrangement, or whether it did not arise from that philanthropic spirit which they were all anxious to conform to as much as possible. He could not perceive that Bank of England notes stood upon a principle so different from other securities as to require a special exception in their favour. It appeared to him that they stood upon a footing with all other negociable instruments of a similar character. But it was urged that bank-notes had been made a legal tender. He appealed to the House whether this was the fact? They never had been made a legal tender; on the contrary, no principle had been held more sacred than that it should not be compulsory to receive them. True, it was compulsory upon individuals to take those notes for their own convenience, as they could not exist without them; but the same might be said of country notes, for if those notes did not pass in the country, the whole operations of business must be suspended. If he was right in this point, and if the hon. member gave up the question of wills, then he had the whole question 964pari materie963inThe Marquis of Londonderry
965 said, he would not, trouble the House were it not for this reason, that if the bill did not pass in its present stage, he should be sorry to have omitted this opportunity of giving his testimony in. support of it. He regretted much that many gentlemen who would vote upon the question were not in the House early enough to hear the powerful arguments and persuasive eloquence of the hon. member for Weymouth. His speech, showed that his ideas on the subject were not taken up merely on speculation, but were founded on actual observation, and facts collected with the greatest industry. He was glad to perceive that his noble friend opposed the bill in a spirit which showed that his feelings favoured the principle, though he did not think it prudent at present to agree to any mitigation of the existing punishment. Whatever strength, however, the arguments of his noble friend might have as applied to the merits of the bill, he did not think they ought to prevent the House from going into the committee. This he thought they ought to agree to, were it only for the purpose of giving the measure that full and fair consideration which its importance merited. It ought to be made apparent to the country, that the House had not, until after minute consideration, agreed to a continuance of such painful severities; and for that reason, he
965Mr. Wilberforce
970969968967966 said, it had been objected to him, that he had not opened his view of the question. His reason for not doing so was, that he had, in 1819 and last year, addressed the House upon the measure, and he did not, on this occasion, wish to fatigue them with a repetition of the same arguments. But that was now charged against him as an offence, which he had done as a matter of courtesy. It was, however, of little consequence what he said upon this question. The subject was one of great magnitude, and it would ill become him to indulge in any personal feelings in discussing it. He should, were it not that he conceived that silence would not become him on such an occasion, most willingly rest his case upon the very luminous and able speech of his hon. friend (Mr. Buxton)—a speech which contained the clearest and most extended view of this great question, and which he felt himself bound to say, was the most powerful appeal that he had ever had the good fortune to hear within the walls of parliament. After such a speech, it was needless for him to enter at length into details, and in order to spare as much as possible the time of the House and his own strength, he would avoid touching upon any thing not immediately connected with the question before them. He would, therefore, abstain from entering into a defence of the committee, satisfied that the character of his hon. and learned friend would be more than sufficient to repel any attack made
970969968967966Sir James Mackintosh
971 said, he had to complain of the manner in which the hon. and learned member had brought forward the present measure. He certainly did expect to have heard him open the subject with something like a general explanation of the principles upon which his bills were founded. As, however, he had not done so, his hon. and learned friend must excuse him if he stated, that he had just left the question where it was before he touched it. That being the case, and considering the lateness of the hour, he should not enter into the merits of the bill. He objected to it, because the punishment of death was effective to prevent private forgeries, and the permission of pleading to the minor offence for forgery of Bank notes had increased that offence. If he required another argument to support
971The Attorney-General
891 having presented a petition
891Mr. Dugdale
893892 said, he was anxious to take the opportunity afforded to him by a petition being presented for an alteration in the criminal law, to complain of another alteration in the criminal laws, not made upon the sound and constitutional principles of his hon. and learned friend (sir J. Mackintosh), but upon principles and with feelings which justly created serious alarm in the public mind. He alluded to the inroad made upon that which, if not the exclusive right, had at least been the general practice of his majesty's attorney and solicitor-general—the proceeding officially against all persons guilty of offences against the church or state. He did not mean to contend that, by law, this right was vested solely in the solicitor and attorney-general, for he held that by law any man could proceed against another for a public offence. After the many associations which had existed for the prosecution of felonies, it would be hard to raise a question with respect to their strict legality. But the proceedings of these associations had always been confined to the prosecution of felonies, or of those odious crimes which came more immediately under the cognizance of the Society for the Suppression of Vice, which at the time of its establishment was strongly objected to, on the ground of its impropriety, but with respect to which, he wished to be understood to give no decided opinion. The Society for the Suppression of Vice, however, by confining itself to the object of its institution, and connecting itself with no party, had done less mischief than had been apprehended at the time of its establishment, and had even effected some good. But there was a society now in existence, of a perfectly different nature, which meant to proceed to the prosecution of political offences, to be selected at the discretion of political feeling. The prosecutions were to be conducted by means of a common fund, and no person of respectability could be fixed upon as immediately responsible for the acts of the society. He did not mean to say there were no respectable individuals connected with the association. He knew, indeed, that there were many most respectable persons connected with it, to whom, on the present occasion, he wished to address himself only in the language of expostulation. He believed that many
893892Mr. Brougham
982 read extracts from two reports of the finance committee on this subject; and from these he inferred, that the committee had recognised the right of the Crown to the 4½ per cent, duties, and that they formed no part of the public revenue. He also noticed that Mr. Burke's bill did not at all interfere with the fund in question, though the attention of parliament had been particularly called to the subject, and contended that the grant to the earl of Kinnoul was just as illegal as any of those subsequently made. In conclusion, he adverted to the anonymous slanders circulated against
982Sir C, Long
980 entered into an historical review of the government of the island of Barbadoes, and adverted to the rapacious measures pursued towards the colonists in the reign of Charles 2nd. At that period the earl of Carlisle obtained a proprietary grant of the revenues of the island, and afterwards consigned the interest for a limited period to the earl of Pembroke, from whom it passed to a merchant on the island. The second earl of Carlisle at a subsequent period leased out his interest to lord Kinnoul, who again transferred his right to lord Willoughby; and these successive persons conducted themselves with so much rapacity, that the colonists were under the necessity of claiming the protection of king Charles. They begged permission of that unprincipled monarch to try at law the validity of the letters patent under which the exactions had been carried on; but the king, instead of granting this request, referred the matter to certain lords of his council, of whom the earl of Clarendon was one; and the conduct then pursued was among the grounds of charge adduced in the subsequent impeachment of that earl. This duty of four and a half per cent, was first proposed to the colonial council, by a colonist named Kendall, who had acted without the authority of the people of Barba-
980Mr. Bernal
l.l.l.981l.l.l. said, he was not surprised that the hon. member opposite should endeavour to get rid of the force of the colonial act, by saying that the colonists had subsequently submitted, and acknowledged the error into which they had fallen. They had indeed submitted; but to what? To the encroachment of the strong—to the arbitrary plundering of an oppressive government. He expressed his concurrence in the construction of the acts, as they had been quoted by his hon. friends, and contended that the act of George 1st. threw back the produce of these 4½ per cent, duties to their original design, namely, the maintenance of the local government at Barbadoes. For a long succession of years that appropriation had actually taken place, and it was not until 1796 that a different system grew up, and pensions were assigned from this fund. At first they were comparatively small; lord Auckland and sitGrey Cooper received 1,200l.l.l.981l.l.l.Mr. Bennet
986 contended that there was no place in which a vagrant was so likely to abandon his idle habits, and apply himself to useful labour, as that in which the law emphatically styled him to be last settled. There would be difficulty in dealing with a part of the system of the Poor-laws, without considering in what
986Mr. F. Lewis
 said, that if the House acceded this session to the measure proposed by Mr. Scarlett, undoubtedly the present bill must go hand in hand with it. But if that measure should not be carried this session, he hoped the House would agree to try an experiment, which, as the measure was limited only to one year, could at any rate produce no very injurious consequences.Mr. Cripps
 said, the subject was full of conflicting difficulties, and the object of the legislature must be to find that alternative, which was liable to the smallest share of objection. The House was scarcely in a situation to discuss this question with advantage, since they had neither the report of the committee, nor the bill before them. He could not but suggest, therefore, that the question would be more advantageously discussed on the second reading of the bill.The Marquis of Londonderry
 presented a petition in favour of the principle of this bill, from the inhabitants of Marylebone.Sir J. Graham
 said, that the poor-rates amounted to a sum as great as was necessary for carrying on the purposes of the British government on the accession of the late king. Unless something was done to stop the evil, the entire property of the country would ultimately be taken out of the hands of the ancient proprietors.Mr. D. Browne
s contended that the rates might be diminished under the existing laws. In Oakingham they were reduced last year 4sMr. F. Palmer
 could not refrain from offering a few words on that part of the gallant general's speech in which he seemed to consider the statute of Elizabeth as the Magna Charta of the poor, and the palladium of their rights. That he utterly denied. He denied that the House ought to consider that or any other law on the subject as one which they were not perfectly justified in amending, according to the demand of the time, or their altered view of the circumstances of the case. The basis of the constitution was, the security which it gave to all persons in the enjoyment of whatever property they had honestly come by. If it could be shown that the principle of the poor-laws was subversive of that by which property was protected, then it would be evident that such an antagonist principle ought not to be allowed to prevail. The meaning of the statute of the 43rd of Elizabeth was, to inflict compulsory labour by way of punishment, not to afford labour for the mere purpose of maintenance. It was any thing but in the nature of giving the poor personal property.Mr. F. Lewis
 said, his learned friend deceived himself if be thought the bill met with general approbation. He trusted he would not press it this session, and referred to an official statement he had received from Broadwater in Sussex, showing that the poor-rates could be lowered under a proper administration of the present laws.Mr. Calcraft
999 repeated his gratitude to the learned gentleman, for having bestowed so much of his time and attention in bringing this important subject under the consideration of parliament. He should be extremely sorry to do any thing that might impede the fullest consideration of the problem; for it it were not immediately solved, still every grave and deliberate examination of the question would ripen the mind of the country, in its progress to that final amelioration of the System, to which he trusted we might ultimately arrive. This important subject had been discussed during two sessions in a committee above stairs, with a degree of candour and patience of which he regretted that the House and the country at large could not have been witnesses. The numerous difficulties which presented themselves to any arrangement on this important subject, could only be got rid of by frequent discussion. In fact, every fresh discussion of it was
999The Marquis of Londonderry
 thought that the learned gentleman deserved the thanks of the country for having brought before the House a measure on this most important subject.Mr. Jenkinson
 observed, that the bill had met with the approbation of a large body of the inhabitants of Sussex.Mr. Curteis
 wished for an improvement in the system, and for an alteration, of the treatment experienced by vagrants in houses of correction, so as to ensure their being put to hard labour. An hon. member seemed to think, with a view to putting a stop to vagrancy, it was only necessary to refuse the beggar relief. This plan might answer for a society in a state of nature, but was inapplicable to one in our present artificial state; and could not be reconciled with the principles of our religion.Mr. Harbord
 said, that in Warwick the opposition to the measure was general.Mr. Lawley
l.l.979l.978 was not surprised at the hostility which sortie hon. gentlemen felt towards this fund, as they were evidently unacquainted with its real history. Many publications had of late issued from the
l.l.979l.978Mr. Goulburn
997maximum of Wilts, observed, that the greatest evil of the poor-laws was, that it rendered the poor man dependent on his superior, and made him so abject a wretch, that he had no object in acquiring property or maintaining a character in society. But, although that was a great evil, yet by its removal there would be danger of inflicting a still greater cruelty on the poor. There could be little doubt that if the existing poor-laws were suddenly repealed, the effect would be general starvation. As to any 997maximumMr. Benett,
988 expressed a hope that the learned gentleman would not press his measure at the present moment; as he was convinced, from the generally dis-
988Mr. Curwen
l.l. could not agree that the rates could be lowered under the present system. He hoped the measure would be discussed, in order that the opinion of ministers might be known. The reduction was often not so great as it appeared. The poor-rates were generally estimated at 8,000,000l.l.Mr. Lockhart
 observed, that this bill did not touch the real question, namely, whether vagrancy was or was not a crime? There were many classes of vagrants known to the law. Beggars, for instance, who solicited charity; others, who did not actually solicit alms, but who carried on some foolish and trifling business; and, a third class, who endeavoured to excite pity, by the exposure of some bodily infirmity. All these came under the operation of the present law. He was of opinion, that vagrancy might be effectually checked, without having recourse to a multiplicity of prosecutions. Suppose a beggar applied for charity; what was the best way of repelling him? Why, give him nothing. If this principle were acted on, men would soon see the necessity of exerting themselves to obtain a livelihood. The vagrant, instead of being passed to his settlement at the public expense, ought to be compelled to proceed thither as well as he could. The effect of a restrictive system, by which each parish could only incur a specific expense, would, he conceived, be beneficial. At present, the poor were taught, not to rely on their own exertions, but on the exertions of others; and the consequence was that they ceased to be saving, industrious, and economical. The bill was that sort of measure which, if carried, would lead the country to believe that they meant-to continue, with some modification, that destructive system which had too long, prevailed.Mr. Lockhart
 said, he had been requested by his constituents to express their disapprobation of the bill. They considered it not only highly impolitic but impracticable, at a period, when so great a number of labourers, both in the manufacturing and agricultural districts, were unable to obtain employment.Mr. Mansfield
987 observed, that, by the laws of this country, no man was permitted to starve and die of want. Some relief, therefore, must be afforded to destitute persons; and though, in a general point of view, it was a matter of indifference to the country, whether that relief were afforded in one place or another, it was by no means a matter of indifference to A. sand B. the two parishes, which was to be bur-thened with the permanent support of
987Mr. Monck
 presented a petition from the parish of St. Mary, Nottingham, against the bill, which they believed would, if carried into effect proveruinous to the country.Mr. Birch
 observed, that with respect to the 4½ per cent, duties, there had been no return of their produce or application laid before the House since the year 1818. These duties had always been credited to the public, and formed part of the public revenue, up to 1778. Until 1796, indeed, some portion of this fund was returned as part of the public revenue; when it disappeared altogether, having been exhausted in pensions granted by his majesty. But, as the individuals to whom those pensions were granted happened to fall, it was surely fair that the surplus should be appropriated to the use of the public. That was the object of his hon. friend, and in this object lie called upon the landed gentlemen to support him.Mr. Hume
 thought it desirable that the bill should go to a committee, and receive the modifications which the hon. and learned gentleman proposed to introduce into it, with an understanding that when it came out of the committee, it should be discussed by the House. He hoped that the House would then be prepared to come to a decision, as to the principle of the poor-laws. Adverting to the strong protest which the hon. member for Beaumaris had entered against the assertion of the gallant general with respect to the right of the poor to relief, he must say, that he totally disagreed with the member for Beaumaris, and much more nearly agreed with the gallant general. On a future occasion, he should be prepared to contend (if the House would allow him), that the poor, both from the course of our legislation on the subject and from what he might call moral right, bad a fair and reasonable claim before God and man for relief, much more extensively than the member for Beaumaris was disposed to allow.Mr. Thomas Courtenay
 shortly replied, relying upon the act of 1663, and contending that his case was unshaken by anything said in answer to his motion. He asked for the relinquishment of no pension, but merely that the matter in future should be put upon a clear, fair, and intelligible footing.Mr. Creevey
983l. maintained the correctness of the assertion which he had made, that the 4½ per cent, duties were exhausted in pensions to members of parliament and their connections. He was in possession of the names of members of that House who received pensions to the amount of 13,000983l.Mr. Creevey
l.l.977976l.975 rose to make his promised motion respecting the Four and a Half per Cent. Barbadoes and Leeward Island duties. He had on a former evening called the attention of the House to this subject. Of its importance no person could express a doubt who felt the necessity of making every just and possible retrenchment. The persons who questioned his law, and opposed his views on this subject, were certain ladies and gentlemen of high rank, who put into their own pockets the fund that should be applied to colonial purposes alone. One would have thought that the guardians of the public purse would have received with satisfaction any suggestion on this head; but when it was considered that many of those guardians themselves received part of this fund, the House would see that he had a difficult task to perform when he attempted to restore it to the purposes to which, in justice, and in law, it ought to have been applied. He would for the present take the case of the island of Barbadoes only. With respect to the law of the case, he would recite the colonial act, dated 12th Sept. 1663, by which the duty of 4½ per cent, on all goods the product of the island, which should be shipped from thence, was granted to his majesty for the purpose of keeping up the honour, and dignity of the government in the Island, and for building and keeping fortifications and other public works in repair. In that act he saw nothing, with respect to pensioners of the Crown; he did not see one single word to authorize the appropriation of those duties to pensions for lords and gentlemen,, and more particularly members of that House, The obvious intention of the act of 1663 was however departed from; and about 40 years after that act had been passed, a
l.l.977976l.975Mr. Creevey
s.s. rose to introduce a bill to prevent fraudulent votes being given at the election of members to sit in parliament. That an evil existed in the election of members for particular cities-and boroughs, by individuals giving occasional votes, arising from freeholds under 40s.s.Mr. W. Williams
s.s.985d.d.l.984 said, he took the earliest opportunity of obeying the directions of the select committee, appointed a short time since to inquire into the laws respecting Vagrants, for the purpose of bringing forward a measure in conformity with the report of that committee, as to the best means of apprehending, punish-
s.s.985d.d.l.984Mr. Chetwynd
 adverted to the absurdity of the present system of the laws, by which vagrants were sent to their places of settlement, to receive precisely the same punishment which might have been inflicted upon them in the first instance. If it was necessary to punish vagrants at all, surely the cheaper and more expeditious mode would be to punish them in the place where the act of vagrancy was committed, instead of sending them from one end of the kingdom to the other at a great public expense. This view of the question was calculated to illustrate the arguments which he had urged on a former occasion with regard to the law of settlement. In fact, to send a pauper to his place of settlement, was in most cases to send him to a place where he had no connexions, and no means of obtaining a livelihood. He hoped, therefore, that his learned friend would propose some measure to limit the discretion of justices in this respect. The mere circumstance of a man being reduced to necessity, was not in itself to be regarded as a crime; it was only against the sturdy, incorrigible vagrant, that the penalties of the law were directed.Mr. Scarlett
l.989 said, that if the subject had not frequently been brought under the consideration of parliament and the public, he would have been more ready to accede to the wish of some of his friends to postpone the bill. But as the principle of
l.989Mr. Scarlett
s.l.d.s.l.l.l.s.994maximum,pro tempore,maximummaximum993l.992gamut991990, in rising to move the second reading of his bill, commenced by observing, that he wished at the outset to state, that it never was his intention, even when he first proposed the measure, to incumber it with many matters of detail. He was desirous rather to point out to the House the principles upon which he thought the present system of our poor-laws a vicious one, and one which required correction. He had been desirous of putting it in the most simple form, and of calling the attention of the House to what he conceived to be the grand sources of those evils under which we now laboured. He would shortly recapitulate the three great causes of all the various mischiefs and inconveniences which were found to result from our present system of poor-laws. They were to be found, first, in a compulsory and unlimited provision for the poor; secondly, in the administration of that provision, not to support industry, to encourage good conduct, and to be a relief for those who might be disabled by infirmities, but to cherish the vices and the indolence of that class of the poor who were disposed to exist rather on the charity of others, than to depend for their bread upon their own exertions: thirdly (which was the grand and principal source of all those evils, as compared with the others), in the restraint that now existed upon the free exercise of labour. No one was more aware than
s.l.d.s.l.l.l.s.994maximum,pro tempore,maximummaximum993l.992gamut991990Mr. Scarlett
 observed, that out of the great multitude of communications which he had received on the subject, very few were opposed to the bill in principle.Mr. Scarlett
 expressed his satisfaction that this populous and respectable parish approved of the bill. It was his intention to modify it in a future stage, so as to prevent any inconvenience being occasioned to local interests.Mr. Scarlett
instanter, said, he should have no objection to go into the committee instanter,Mr. Scarlett
996minimum.maximummaximum995 said, that before the House consented to abrogate the laws of Elizabeth, those laws which Blackstone had described as founded upon the first principles of civilized society, they should look at the artificial state in which, from circumstances, the country was placed. When labour was in many places an unmarketable drug; when corn laws and excise laws prevented the lower orders from obtaining at a low price the necessaries of life; when the poor were many of them absolutely unable to obtain a livelihood, surely they had a right to look for the means of existence, to those who had the power of affording them those means. Let the House beware how they touched that statute of Elizabeth, which was the Magna Charta of the poor, and might be called the palladium of their rights. Men would live; and it was better that they should live by charity than by rapine. The statute of Elizabeth provided that the lame, the blind, and the indigent poor,
996minimum.maximummaximum995Sir R. Wilson
maximum998 said, that for the bill generally he entertained the most friendly feeling. That part of it which went to repeal the law of settlements had his warmest support. That law was productive of great mischief to the poor themselves, as well as to the country at large. At the same time, he could by no means agree with an hon. member, that the basis of the constitution was the protection of the enjoyment of property. The basis of the constitution was the protection of rights; and the rights of the poor ought to be protected as well as those of the rich. He doubted whether the population had increased so much as was supposed, especially in the agricultural districts. But, was the country to be told in the nineteenth century that it would be ruined by an excess of population? Had not all the great men of the last century declared that the population was the strength and wealth of a country? And yet it was now proposed to relieve the burthen which pressed on the capital of the country by destroying that population which, although it fed upon that capital, materially contributed to its increase! It was undoubtedly true that at present the whole population were
maximum998Lord Milton
 said, that as the Bank of England was excepted so, in fairness, ought there to be an exception for the protection of country banks.Mr. Cripps
 saw no reason for excepting the Bank of England; but if there was any reason, it applied as strongly to country banks.Mr. Grenfell
 said, that transportation, so far from being considered a punishment, was really a bounty upon crime.Mr. Bennet
 could see no ground for excepting forgeries on the Bank of England. It was well known that the Bank did not pay their forged notes. The question of their exception was not, therefore, a question between the Bank and the public, but a question as to the very principle upon which the bill rested. This principle was, that mild but certain punishments were better calculated than severe punishments to prevent the commission of crime. Indeed, if that principle were not true, the present bill was good for nothing. The doubts which he felt regarding this bill related to the secondary punishment which it was its object to provide. His hon. friend had said, that transportation was the only secondary punishment which could be inflicted; if that were the case, he should feel himself compelled to vote against the bill, as he was of opinion that transportation even for life was not a punishment at all calculated to prevent a crime to which there were so many temptations as forgery.Mr. Baring
 said, he should be sorry to see the bill pass with this discretionary clause of imprisonment for three years. He should wish the crime of forgery to be punished by the peremptory infliction of fourteen years imprisonment and hard labour. If any case should occur in which that punishment might appear too severe* it would be in the power of the Crown to extend its mercy to the offender;Mr. Baring
1001 was of opinion that the punishment for forgery ought never to be
1001Dr. Lushington
l. thought, that this vote should be accompanied with more exact details of the purposes to which it was applied. He suggested, that a saving might be effected by conveying the spirits direct from the West Indies to the foreign stations, as also the provisions from Ireland. No less a sum than 24,000l.Colonel Davies
1002l.l. remarked upon the manner in which the account was kept, as to the payment of our army in India, that payment being made by advances from the army extraordinaries, which the India Company covenanted to repay. But that covenant was not fulfilled, the advances having been equal to 1,400,0001002l.l.Mr. Maberly
 called the attention of the committee to the mode in which the public accounts were kept. It was impossible to look at them as they were laid before the House, and understand what the various establishments to which they related cost the country. It was necessary that more general information should be furnished, and in a mode very different from the vague manner in which it was now laid before them.Mr. Baring
 observed, that there was no ground whatever for supposing that the expenses of the foreign commissioners at St, Helena were not paid by their own governments. At this moment, he believed, two of them had been withdrawn.The Marquis of Londonderry
l. objected to the amount of the army extraordinaries as exorbitant. He did not see why the debt to Mr. Commissary Mackenzie should be put among them. He thought the expenses of the colonies altogether too great, especially those of the Cape of Good Hope and New South Wales. He could not agree to vote the sum demanded for conveying convicts to the latter place, more particularly as the solicitor-general had said, in 1821, what he (Mr. B.) had been telling the House during the last five years, that it was not a place of punishment. Pie would propose a reduction of 100,000l.Mr. Bennet
l.1012 said, he had long been of opinion, that there should be one great military depot in the kingdom, which
l.1012Mr. Maberly
 considered that the public services of Mr. Herries had been abundaatly paid, without the pension in question.Mr. Bennet
l. compared the present estimates with those of 1819, and commented on their excess,. With a view to the reduction of that excess, he moved, as an amendment, to reduce the proposed vote by 4,238l.Colonel Davies
 defended the existing arrangements, and contended that considerable reductions had been effected.Mr. Arbuthnot
ll. next moved, "That 401,569ll.Mr. Arbuthnot
 observed, that 800 clerks had been dismissed, and that the number now employed were indispensable for the purpose of carding on the business of the Commissariat office. The experiment of a greater reduction had been made in a former year, but was of necessity abandoned. He defended the pensions which had been granted to Mr. Herries and Mr. Trotter, as due to them, and more especially to the former, in acknowledgment of their great public services.Mr. Arbuthnot
 not said, that the accounts would, it was hoped, be rendered more intelligible by the next session. As to the payment and half-pay of our army in India, he acquiesced in the propriety of some new arrangement upon that subject, and could assure the hon. gentleman that such an arrangement was under the serious consideration of government.Mr. Arbuthnot
 complained of the very general manner in which the sums were stated in the estimate.Mr. Gipps
l. said, that the sum of 8,000l.Mr. Goulburn
 denied that this government paid the expenses of the foreign commissioners. With regard to the item charged on account of Buonaparte, the house of that individual had been complained of as being so utterly out of repair, as to admit the rain. As it was found that the old building was not worth repairing, it was decided that a new residence should be built. The sum charged in the item adverted to was for the additional furniture supplied on this occasion. With respect to the salaries of the private secretaries of civil governors, he agreed that it was absurd to charge them in the army extraordinaries, but it was a practice which had long prevailed, and was found convenient, because the secretaries were paid by the paymaster-general of the army. As to the refusal of a private secretary to the governor of New South Wales, he was inclined to believe that no such application as that stated by the hon. gentleman was made by sir C. Brisbane. He did, indeed, apply for a brigade-major, and the application was refused, because government saw no reason for adding another staff-officer to the establishment of New South Wales.Mr. Goulburn
 said, he must oppose the bill in a future stage, unless the punishment for forgery, in all cases, was transportation for life.Mr. J. Martin
 objected to the judges being allowed a discretion in affixing the punishment for forgery. The punishment should be certain. He thought punishment by hard labour would prove the most effectual means of preventing forgery.Mr. J. Smith
l.1010l.l.l.l.1009l.l.l.l.1008l.l.l.l.1007militial.l.l.l.1006l.l.l.slll.1005l.l.l.l.1004l.1003l.l.l. was extremely happy to hear, that, at last, his majesty's government had determined to reduce the extravagant and useless establishment of Heligoland. He had, in his observations on the Ordnance Estimates, shown, that that small island had, for the last year, cost the country upwards of 11,000l.1010l.l.l.l.1009l.l.l.l.1008l.l.l.l.1007militial.l.l.l.1006l.l.l.slll.1005l.l.l.l.1004l.1003l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 consented to withdraw his amendment, and the committee divided: for Mr. Bennet's amendment 32. Against it 84.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l.1014l.l.l.l.l.1013l.l. considered this vote one of great importance, both by its magnitude and from the peculiar nature of the department. The hon. member for Abingdon (Mr. Maberly) had stated the general extravagance of the storekeeper's department but he had not stated half its extent. It had been one of the most profuse and wasteful departments under the present profuse system. He had for successive years endeavoured to convince the House of the necessity of reducing or abolishing it; and, in justice to the hon. secretary (Mr. Arbuthnot), he must state that the necessity had been felt by him and acted upon, as the department of storekeeper-general had been, in the course of the last year, joined to that of the commissariat under the Treasury, and Mr. Trotter, the storekeeper-general, and several others of the establishment had been removed on pensions and half-pay. This department was for the purchase of military stores, for their keeping and issue as the services of war required; and, although during the war, the establishment under Mr. Trotter had increased to an uncalled-for extent, he did not include that period in the statements he had prepared and formerly stated of that department. From the peace up to March 1820, the total amount value of stores contracted for by the storekeeper was 312,834l.l.l.l.1014l.l.l.l.l.1013l.l.Mr. Hume
 also moved as an amendment, that the term of transportation for cases of forgery should be for a period not less than three and not exceeding fourteen years.Sir J. Mackintosh
 withdrew his amendment, and moved that the words "imprisoned for the term of ten years, to be kept to hard labour," be inserted; which was agreed to; as was also an amendment for excepting Scotland from the operation of the bill.Sir J. Mackintosh
 said, it would be open to any member to propose further exceptions On the third reading.Sir J. Mackintosh
 said, that he intended to move three amendments, which he did not think would excite discussion. The House had declared its opinion, that the severe punishment in cases of forgery ought to be reduced. In the majority on that question were to be found eminent and enlightened merchants and bankers; amongst whom were his hon. friends the members for Taunton and Wendover. In framing the bill originally, he, in deference to the judgments of others, had made some considerable sacrifice of his own opinions. In compliance with the wishes of a considerable portion of the majority of the other night, he was now about to propose some important exceptions. The first exception related to the forging of wills. The next exception related to two species of forgery under the Marriage act; the first relating to the forgery of marriage entries, and the second to the forgery of licences. He concluded by moving the amendments.Sir J. Mackintosh
l. animadverted upon the grant of 8,000l.Sir J. Yorke
1011 said, that the reason of the charge for the inspectors of army clothing appearing in the extraordinaries was, that it had been the intention of government to dispense with them,, and the charge had consequently been comitted
1011Lord Palmerston
 reprobated the system of inflicting corporal punishment for contempt of court. The practice was as unjustifiable as it was cruel and severe. The chief justice in his charge to the jury, said, that the punishment of this man was unjust and uncalled for; and the inhabitants of the colony were of the same opinion.Dr. Lushington
 said, that the existing system with respect to the whole of our colonies required revision. At St. Lucie, several slaves had been punished for running away, by the loss of their ears. In another case, a planter who had taken a run-away slave, after beating him, tied him to a stake, with the intention of returning to complete his punishment. Death, however, relieved the poor wretch from further suffering. A prosecution was instituted against the planter, but failed, because, by the law of Spain, a master was allowed to inflict 200 lashes on a run-away slave, and it could not be proved that the planter had inflicted more than that number.Mr. Marryat
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,1018 said, he considered this not so much a financial as a constitutional question, because the present system went
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,1018Colonel Davies
 protested against the unconstitutional increase of barracks in a time of profound peace.Sir R. Heron
 said, that if the system now pursued were carried to its extreme, it would become necessary to establish barracks in every village. Taxation must be reduced, and no stand could be better taken than against this vote.Mr. Williams
1022l.l., objected to the grant. Among the items which formed that amount, was one of 43,0001022l.l.,Mr. Bennet
 said, it was impossible that all the expenses of the civil government in each year could be foreseen, so as to enable ministers to lay estimates before the House; and it would have been the incurring of a hazardous responsibility for them to have applied to such expenses any part of the sums voted for other purposes. Whenever a specific charge was brought against them, they would be prepared to enter on their defence.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 replied, that every office under government selected the paper in which it advertised. There was no order from the Treasury to exclude advertisements from any particular paper.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 agreed, that it would be better to avoid as much as possible leaving sums of money to be granted under heads of service to which they did not belong. He was willing to admit that there were many charges in the present estimates, which might have been more appropriately placed, and which would for the future be so disposed of.Mr. Arbuthnot
l.l.1019 contended that the salaries of barrack-masters were by no means upon too large a scale, and assured the committee that not one had been appointed until the comptroller of the department had represented that a barrack-master was necessary to take care of stores which had been collected. After the peace no new barrack-masters had been chosen, until all those on the reduced list capable of serving had been provided for. He could most unequivocally state, that not one man had been appointed to an office of the king from private views, or improper influence. He was not surprised that the sum for
l.l.1019Mr. Arbuthnot
1021 declared himself decidedly
1021Mr. Harbord
 said, he would never give his assent to so extravagant a grant. The country was much indebted to his hon. friend (Mr. Hume) for his persevering exertions to reduce the expenditure of the country; and though nothing had been struck off from the estimates this session, he felt confident that the labours of his hon. friend would have an effect upon the conduct of ministers in the next. It was lamentable to see the public money voted away night after night in that House, when the country gentlemen, who ought to protect the interests of their tenants, labouring, as they were, under such accumulated distresses, were absent from the House, and the ministerial benches were filled with gentlemen who came down to vote for their own salaries. If the session terminated without retrenchment, he would advise the country gentlemen to look to themselves; for they would no longer meet with the support of their constituents, if they did not compel ministers to reduce the extravagant expenditure of the country. Above all, he deprecated the barrack system, which was calculated to make this country a military nation. We were not naturally a military people, nor could we be made so by art. Our navy was our natural protection, and it was the interest of this country to support our navy, instead of setting up as a rival to the barbarous Russian, by extending our military establishments.Mr. Bright
l.1024primâJacie agreed with his hon. friend in the general principle which he had laid down with respect to the civil contingencies. His majesty's ministers were certainly bound, whenever they foresaw the amount of the Sums to be expended, to put them in the form of an estimate for the House, and to give an Opportunity of their being previously discussed; With respect to governor Maxwell, his hon. friend seemed to suppose that the verdict was given on the merits of the case against governor Maxwell, and that twelve honest men had on those merits decided against him; but the presumption upon the l.1024primâJacieMr. Brougham
 replied, that orders had been sent to all the colonies, directing that no punishment not used in England should be inflicted.Mr. Goulburn
1017 admitted that the mode of administering justice in the colony was one that should not exist. The causes of complaint were almost always between the merchants and the fishermen, the only two classes in fact in the colony. The government finding it impossible to select justices of the peace likely to act impartially, were obliged to appoint naval officers, who were men of honour and understanding. He did not defend severe punishment in cases of cop tempt, but he
1017Mr. Goulburn
l.l.l.,1020l.l.l. could not refrain from once more referring the committee to the golden year of 1792, when there were only 43 barracks capable of accommodating 21,000 men; and when the whole expense of barrack-masters and assistants was 4,552l.l.l.,1020l.l.l.Mr. Hume
l.l.l.1023l.l.l. maintained that the House ought not to sanction a vote for the payment of any of the expenses of carrying on the Queen's trial, nor even for any of the contingencies, until they knew what they might comprehend. He wished to know whether the late king had made a will; because if he had not, his property should belong to the public, and some of it might be applied to the payment of the expenses incidental to that disgusting prosecution. The hon. member then went into other items of the contingencies, and maintained that they could not be classed under that head of expenditure which the chancellor of the exchequer had said could not be foreseen; for there were several of them which must have been known beforehand. Among these he objected to the charges incurred under the Alien act, that un-English law. The expenses of the Insolvent court ought also to have been more fully detailed. He maintained that the non-production of estimates for these, and many other items, the nature of which was well known beforehand, was, a breach of that confidence which had been reposed in ministers. He next adverted to the expenses of our foreign ambassadors, which, he maintained, were much too large. A great saving might be effected by curtailing the expenses of our public purse. On the present occasion Embassies to the courts of minor powers, bethought the House would do well to The next item upon which he should have to observe was one of 6,241l.l.l.1023l.l.l.Mr. Hume
1025 put a question to the chancellor of the exchequer relative to the manner in
1025Mr. Hume
 said, that if such were the case, it was a strange coincidence that all the public offices should have combined to exclude their advertisements from one particular paper.Mr. Hume
 said, it was almost impossible for a poor man in Newfoundland to obtain redress for the most enormous cruelty. No free man ought to suffer the arbitrary punishments inflicted by those surrogates.Mr. W. Smith
 deprecated the system of punishment prevailing in many of our colonies; but at the same time contended that the Spanish laws in many instances were admirably humane.Mr. Wilberforce
 said, he was many years ago in Newfoundland, and never saw any law there but the cat-o'-nine tails. He was a surrogate himself, but he never ordered more than a dozen lashes.Sir I. Coffin
1016 said, he rose to present a petition from the inhabitants of St. John's, Newfoundland, of an important nature. He was satisfied that the British legislature would be disposed to listen to the complaints from any colony, however unimportant. The colony of Newfoundland was not one of those—it was a colony of great extent and importance, with a population of upwards of 100,000 persons. The petition complained of the manner in which justice was administered in certain courts, and of the severe and extraordinary mode of punishment resorted to by those courts in cases of contempt. The petitioners prayed for the redress of this abuse, and also for the establishment of a local legislature in the island. The courts in question were called Surrogate courts; the judges were principally composed of officers of the navy. Punishment for contempt was, he admitted, resorted to by courts of justice in England; but he believed the use of the lash in such cases was altogether unknown in this country; it was, however, the ordinary mode of punishment adopted in Newfoundland. In order to put before the House the manner in which that distant, defenceless, and unrepresented island was treated by those Surrogate courts, he would state one instance—a man of the name of Lander-
1016Sir J. Mackintosh
 asked, whether the infliction of torture was sanctioned in those British colonies where the Dutch laws were still in force?Sir R. Wilson
 said, he knew many merchants at Newfoundland well qualified to form a local assembly.Sir J. Newport
1038 said, that although parliament sometimes pledged itself as to the course it would take in a subsequent session, it should never do so without great caution; and he thought they
1038The Marquis of Londonderry
 wished to say a few words in reply to the reflections which his hon. friend had cast upon the learned lord who presided in the Court of Chancery. His hon. friend had said, that there were the same arrears in cases of bankruptcy and original causes, at present, as there had been before the creation of the Vice-chancellor's court. Now this was by no means the fact, as there were no original causes and no cases of bankruptcy, at this moment, in arrear. There had been an increase of appeals to the lord chancellor, but that was to be attributed to the desire which every man felt to have his case decided by the great talents and learning of that learned lord. No decisions had been, or would hereafter, be more respected than those of the learned judge who now presided in the Court of Chancery,The Attorney-General
1041 saw no reason whatever why Mr. Burton's creditors did not again arrest him, except that having on the former occasion had him for six years in custody, they thought it better now to risk an application to parliament than to proceed by a second arrest, after experiencing the inefficacy of the first. He was utterly at a loss to see what doubt could be raised upon the words of the act of James 1st. There could be no doubt that the creditors had their remedy still against Mr. Burton. With respect to the intention of the hon. member to render ineligible persons in execution for debt, he thought the qualification already required was a sufficient general control. That was, however, too grave a question, to be incidentally discussed. If such had been the law, the House could have
1041Mr. Wynn
 maintained, that the act of James 1st confined the liability of being taken under a new writ to persons who were taken in execution subsequently to their election. In all the cases previous to that time, the persons declared to be entitled to privilege, had been arrested subsequently to their election. Mr. Burton had the means, if he chose, of paying his debts, for he was a man of considerable property. As to his six years confinement, it was merely nominal, for at the time of his supposed imprisonment, he had himself seen that gentleman at Doncaster races.Mr. S. Wortley
ipso facto agreed that there was abundant reason for not granting any compensation to the individuals in question. He confessed, however, that he saw no difficulty in dealing with this privilege, as it was called, in such a way as would preserve what was valuable in it to the House, and at the same time prevent it from becoming a source of fraud between individuals. The present case was not the first of the kind; for some years ago an individual had succeeded in making his way out of the King's-bench through that House, and had afterwards quitted the kingdom. He thought there would be no difficulty in enacting, that if any member should plead privilege in exemption of arrest, within a given time after his election, his seat should become ipso factoMr. Baring
l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.s.d.s.l.d.d.s.l.d.d.d.s.l.d.d.s.l.d.1042l.l.l.l.l. rose to bring forward his promised motion with regard to the interest paid upon Irish Treasury-bills, compared to that upon Exchequer bills. The Treasury bills in Ireland were to raise money for the public uses, in the same manner as the Exchequer bills; but they were not sold in open market in Ireland, as the Exchequer bills were in this country; and were issued, he presumed, by special favour as the Bank of Ireland thought proper. In 1815, the unfunded debt of Ireland was about 2,500,000l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.s.d.s.l.d.d.s.l.d.d.d.s.l.d.d.s.l.d.1042l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Maberly
l. said, it was but fair that Ireland should be placed in as advantageous a situation as this country, with respect to loans, and it certainly was not in a better. Upon the repeal of the war taxes in 1816 government was under the necessity of making a loan from the Bank of Ireland, the capital of which had since been reduced from five to one million, while the interest had been reduced from five to four per cent, and if the remaining one million were now to be paid off, a loss would be incurred upon the exchange of at least two per cent, by which, of course, the public would suffer, although the means of paying it off might be borrowed at 3 per cent. By this proceeding also it would be recollected that one million must be taken from the circulation of England to be transferred to Ireland. The interest upon the unfunded debt had been reduced from five to three per cent, which reduction had produced a saving to the country of no less than 600,000l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.1043 said, that if a wise policy were pursued, there would be no necessity for the Banks of Ireland or England holding the Treasury bills in question, at a rate of interest different from that;, at which the merchants of London were paid. If there was a man who could say conscientiously that the public ought to pay
l.1043Mr. Maberly
1045 admitted* that this was a case of considerable difficulty. For his own part, he did not think
1045The Marquis of Londonderry
1044 said, he regretted the alterations made in the bill. As the Lords had agreed to the disfranchisement of Grampound, be thought it would have been
1044Mr. Wynn
1051 questioned the propriety of any discussion as to what the attorney-general ought or ought not to do, in the absence of that learned gentleman. Without entering into the legality or constitutionality of the
1051The Marquis of Londonderry
 concurred in the opinions which had been given respecting the Association, which has taken upon itself the task of teaching magistrates their duty. He, for one, would dispense with the instruction of a body, which he considered illegal and unconstitutional.Sir J. Sebright
 observed that there was an association for the suppression of vice, the object of which was to prosecute all offences against decency and morality, and he had not heard any objection to it; nor did he conceive why an objection should be urged against this association, because it had for its object the prosecution and suppression of disloyalty and sedition.The Marquis of Londonderry
ex-officionolle prosequinolle prosequi1052 said, he could not avoid expressing his surprise that the Constitutional Association should have been called illegal. He would take it upon himself to say that in that society there was nothing illegal, or at all contrary
ex-officionolle prosequinolle prosequi1052The Solicitor-General
1053 said, he objected to any public prosecutions by irresponsible persons,
1053Mr. Wynn
1046 said, the question was, whether or not the bill, as amended, was so ill adapted to its object, that it would be well to reject it. The object was first to reform the borough of Grampound, and then to transfer the right of returning two representatives to another place. It had been decided that the borough was corrupt, and that the elective franchise should be transferred to some other place, and to this the Lords had agreed. The Commons had proposed to give the franchise to the borough of Leeds, the Lords decided that it should be transferred to the large county of York. Now, though he wished that Leeds should return two members to parliament, he was still of opinion that more members ought to be given to the county of York. He was therefore content that the bill as amended should pass; but in a future session, he proposed to call the attention of the House to the claims of large towns to send members to that House.1046Lord J. Russell
1039 contended, that it might be dangerous, at this late period of the session, for the House to pledge itself to inquire. The course of argument adopted by the last speaker, rather
1039Mr. Serjeant Onslow
1050nolle prosequi10491048noli prosequi.1047only rose to call the attention of the House once more to a society, the existence and nature of which he had occasion upon a former evening to bring under its notice. If he was then disposed to view with alarm what he saw In this association, he viewed with still greater anxiety the proceedings that had since been avowed by it. He held in his hand a letter which had been distributed among all the members, and which purported to be a copy of another letter, a circular, that this self-constituted body of prosecutors had thought proper to issue—to whom did the House think? To the magistrates of England. It came from "The Bridge-street Committee." The "Bridge-street Committee" (as if they were, of course, well known to all the kingdom), had erected themselves into a body, and issued circulars 1050nolle prosequi10491048noli prosequi.1047onlyMr. Brougham
 said, that the insinuation of the noble marquis was unfounded in fact, for he had distinctly stated that an association of two or more persons to indict or prosecute might be legal where there was a lack of diligence in the proper quarter: but what he objected to was the system of prosecution going on day after day, until the liberty of the press was reduced to a mere shadow. Such prosecutions, and the associations for carrying them on, were different from those for prosecuting felons; for in the former case party feelings would be created; but who could suppose that a party would be made in the prosecution of felons?Mr. Brougham
 said, that the House of Lords had placed them in a more cruel situation than they had ever before stood in. The question originally was, whether the elective franchise should be extended to the county of York, or given to the town of Leeds. That House had solemnly decided in favour of the latter proposition. The Lords had, however, entirely changed the bill. They said, "You shall not have two burgesses, but you shall have two knights of the shire." Now, he would ask whether, in a case affecting the rights of the Commons, the Lords ought to have made a change of such magnitude, without the most serious consideration. He would contend that by the alteration made in this bill the peers had added greatly to their influence. He would say that a greater misfortune could not happen to the county of York than the having four representatives in parliament. Looking, however, to the bill, he could not give it his sanction, for the mere purpose of securing the principle on which it was founded. It was a measure which satisfied nobody, not even those who were most favourable to reform. Their better course would be to reject this bill, to agree to a second for the disfranchisement of Grampound, and afterwards to consider to what place the elective franchise should; be granted.Mr. Stuart Wortley
l.l.1040 rose to submit a motion, the object of which was, to indemnify the Creditors of Mr. Christie Burton, member for Beverley in the last parliament, for loss occasioned to them by an order of that House, in support of its privileges. The House would recollect that Mr. Burton was confined in the Fleet for debt at the time of his election, and that he was shortly after set at liberty, in consequence of an application by letter to the Speaker. The creditors commenced an action against the warden of the Fleet for an escape, and that act was declared
l.l.1040Mr. Stuart-Wortley
 said, that the delay, if such it might be called, arose out of the mechanism of the court. It was a most severe hardship upon every small legatee, in case of dispute, to be obliged to file a bill in chancery, which perhaps cost him more than his legacy; or to abandon his claim altogether. Justice was thus denied, and dishonesty promoted. The mere statement of such a grievance ought to induce the House to pledge itself to inquire.Mr. Lockhart
 expressed his suprise, that this Association having been pronounced illegal by what he considered the highest law authority in that House, no member of his majesty's government had offered a word of explanation on the subject.Mr. Warre
Candidus imperti; si non, his utere mecum.——Si quid novisti rectius istis,10371036103510341033***d.s.l.d.s.l.1032l.1031***103010291028***10271026*** Candidus imperti; si non, his utere mecum.——Si quid novisti rectius istis,10371036103510341033***d.s.l.d.s.l.1032l.1031***103010291028***10271026***Mr. M. A. Taylor
 said, that one-half of the appeals now before the Lords were of four years standing. This being the case, he would appeal to the House, whether the system pursued by the Court of Chancery was not ruinous and vexatious? All that he asked was an assurance, that, at a proper period, the subject should be taken in to consideration.Mr. M. A. Taylor
 said, that the House was called upon to pledge itself to inquiry, more especially after what had just been said by the learned member, who Wondered that the enormous arrears now complained of had not been still greater, recollecting the vast increase of property. It was admitted on all hands that an abler chancellor could not be found; and as all agreed on his merits, surely a better opportunity could not be chosen than the present for commencing the investigation.Mr. W. Smith
 begged leave to say a few words with respect to the illegality of this association. The motives of the gentlemen were probably such that no one would wish to treat them harshly; but their proceedings were contrary to the law of the land. In individual cases, the party aggrieved was allowed to be the prosecutor by the law of England, but where the public was the party, the prosecutor was the government itself, and the attorney-general was the recognised agent of that government. The effect of this society's labours was, in fact, to libel the attorney-general. They implied that that officer had not been sufficiently vigilant, and that the society therefore undertook to remedy his defect of duty. Now, what would be said of a private gentleman, who should go about the country, indicting offences, committed, not against his interests, but against the interests of the public? What an extraordinary thing this would be—a sort of perambulating attorney-general. This association undertook prosecutions, however, on a similar scale. Where the attorney-general was concerned, the proceeding was regular: where the party aggrieved prosecuted the defendant knew his prosecutor. On the contrary, in the cases in which the Constitutional Association interfered, the prosecutors were unknown; no names were avowed, and some of them might be upon that very special jury which would have to try the offence charged against the defendant. There was no person who had considered the question in a legal or constitutional point of view, who could not concur in condemning such an association.Mr. Scarlett
 considered that there was no analogy whatever between the cases. He thought the self-called Constitutional Association a gross and severe attack on his majesty's government.Mr. Scarlett
 said, that no judge or court could, or ought to give any opinion as to the legality or illegality of a prosecution on which they might be called to determine. With the association in question they had nothing to do. They had only to decide upon the point of law, without at all considering who were the prosecutors.Lord Milton
, in rising to move that the House do agree to the Lords' Amendments in this bill, thought it necessary to say a few words, in order to guard himself from being supposed to prefer the present state of the bill to the state in which it was when it left that House. He thought it would have been much better had the franchise been transferred to Leeds; but, considering that the main object of the bill was not so much the substitution of any particular place, as the disfranchisement of Grampound, he should be sorry to propose any proceeding that might lead to the loss of the bill altogether. He hoped, however, that on some future occasion a measure might be adopted better calculated to repair the defects in our representative system, and to preserve the balance which ought to be maintained between the various interests of the country. The present was the fourth bill of a similar character, which increased the weight of the landed interest in that House. Now, with all his natural partiality for the landed interest, he was decidedly of opinion that the House ought not to legislate in a way which might give to any individual interest an undue preponderance.Lord Milton
*1061l.l.10601059l.l.l.l.1058l.l.1057l.,minimum105610551054 rose, in pursuance of notice, to bring in a bill for better securing the independence of parliament; and, in submitting his proposition to the House, it gave him great satisfaction to reflect that he was introducing no novelty to its consideration. In the plan which he should propose for their adoption, he had followed closely the path of their ancestors, and had put his foot, wherever it was possible, in the very track in which they had trodden. In looking into the subject, the first question that suggested itself was, what, in the language and spirit of the constitution, was meant by the term "House of Commons." He found, by looking at the best authorities, that it ought to be the living image of the people of England—a body whose object it was to represent the opinions, express the feelings, and guard the interests of the nation at large. Such being the purposes for which this body existed, it became necessary to consider next the manner in which it was constituted. It would be difficult to conceive a plan more prejudicial to the integrity of parliament, than that which would attach a large body of members to the Crown, by the ties of office. He was not so wild as to say that the leading members of government ought not to fill seats in that House; but this he would say, that the best mode which could be adopted for the destruc-
*1061l.l.10601059l.l.l.l.1058l.l.1057l.,minimum105610551054Mr. Bennet
1065106410631062** said, he was aware that it was an unpopular course to resist any plausible proposition for reducing the influence of the Crown, but it would be a most unworthy feeling if he suffered himself to be deterred, by any such considerations, from speaking his sentiments plainly and explicitly on the present occasion. From the way in which his hon. friend had argued the question, he was relieved from the necessity of answering him at any great length, for his hon. friend had admitted that it would not be desirable totally to remove placemen from the House of Commons. His hon. friend, therefore, had, in fact, reduced the question to a question of degree. It was not necessary for him to argue in general, that in all governments there must be a rea-
1065106410631062**Mr. Robinson
1066 said, that so far from the influence of the Crown being less now than it was formerly, he thought no man could lay his hand on his heart and deny that it was greater than at any former period. If those who sat in that House really represented the people, then the motion would be unnecessary; for then, if members acted improperly, they would speedily be removed by those whose suffrages had sent them there. He was not one of those who contended that the Crown ought to possess no influence in that House, or that the House ought to be swayed by every breath of popular opinion. Still, he was decidedly opposed to its possessing such means of influencing its decisions as were now given to it. But it was said that fewer placemen, were at present in the House than had sat there at any former period in modern times. He denied the fact. He would assert that there were more members in the House now who were connected with the Crown than sat there in 1808: as he calculated that at present there were not fewer than 80 or 90 who were directly or indirectly under the influence of the Crown. The right hon. gentleman had stated, that in 1740, there were not fewer than 200 members in that House, who were connected in some way or other with the government. But in that number the naval and military officers who had seats were included, to whom he did not object. He animadverted on the extensive patronage at present enjoyed by the Crown, and insisted that it was the duty of the House to do every thing in their power to curtail the enormous influence now exercised. It had been said,
1066Colonel Davies
1067 said, that the increased amount of the item was to be ascribed to the great increase in the accounts, arising from the addition, of the Ordnance estimates of Ireland, the half-pay, the colonial accounts, &c, It was impossible even
1067Mr. Ward
l. contended, that the expense of the barrack establishment might be diminished one half. There was 18,000l.Mr. Hume
l.l.,l.l.l., said, that no item the estimates displayed more clearly the profusion of ministers than that now under consideration. In 1796 the establishment cost the country 18,827l.l.,l.l.l.,Mr. Hume
 trusted his hon. friend would press his amendment to a division, were it only to shew the country that at least some of their representatives were determined to do their duty.Mr. Denman
 was for sending the bill to a committee, where objections, if any existed, would be urged against it.Mr. Calcraft
 said, that gentlemen were under a misconception, if they supposed that the rejection of this measure would contribute to the happiness of the slaves in Antigua, as, on the contrary, that rejection would serve to involve them, in inevitable misery. He would be among the, last to support such a bill, if he thought its adoption would interfere with the happiness of the negroes. The bill was evidently grounded upon the principle that prompted this country occasionally, to take measures for getting rid of its surplus population through the medium of emigration; and he begged the House to consider, that if no vent were allowed for the surplus population in a particular colony, that surplus was but too likely to be slighted. For the same reason, then, that almost every parish in England was crying out for the means of removing its surplus population, he called upon the House to agree to this bill, particularly for the sake of the blacks themselves.Mr. Baring
1073 strenuously resisted the measure. Viewing it merely as a matter of mercantile speculation, it gave the possessor of these slaves an unfair advantage. But if it was objectionable as a precedent, he thought it still more objectionable in regard to its consequences. It did not appear that the slaves could not be maintained on other estates in the island; and if so, they ought not to be subjected to the grievous suffering of being separated
1073Mr. Peel
1071 said, that if the principle of the bill was good, it should be generalised. The question was, whether the learned mover was prepared to put the proposition on its general footing. If they opened all the fertile lands of the British possessions on the continent to the negroes of persons in the situation of Mr. Maxwell, they sealed the depopulation of the West India Islands. The stream of emigration once opened, must continue to flow in; and the question was, would it be advisable to change the degree of advancement and civilization which existed among the negroes in the islands, for that which was likely to be offered on the continent? He thought not; and as he
1071The Marquis of Londonderry
l.l.l.1087l.l.10861085l.l.l.l.l.l.1084l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1083l.l.l.l.l.l;l.l.ll.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1082l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.16,825,95812,l74,1624,651,4961822
16,825,95812,l74,1624,651,496182217,146,88912,400,0004,746,889Year ending 5th Jan. 1821
17,146,88912,400,0004,746,889Year ending 5th Jan. 1821United Kingdom.
United Kingdom.665,756174,462491,2941822
665,756174,462491,2941822645,865645,865Year ending 5th Jan. 1821
645,865645,865Year ending 5th Jan. 1821Ireland (B. C.)
Ireland (B. C.)16,160,20212,000,0004,160,2021822
16,160,20212,000,0004,160,202182216,501,02412,400,0004,101,024Year ending 5th Jan. 1821
16,501,02412,400,0004,101,024Year ending 5th Jan. 1821Great Britain.
Great Britain.Sinking Fund Loans.Purchase of stock.
Sinking Fund Loans.Purchase of stock.Total Sums received.Sums applicable to the—
Total Sums received.Sums applicable to the—
16,825,95812,l74,1624,651,4961822
16,825,95812,l74,1624,651,496182217,146,88912,400,0004,746,889Year ending 5th Jan. 1821
17,146,88912,400,0004,746,889Year ending 5th Jan. 1821United Kingdom.
United Kingdom.665,756174,462491,2941822
665,756174,462491,2941822645,865645,865Year ending 5th Jan. 1821
645,865645,865Year ending 5th Jan. 1821Ireland (B. C.)
Ireland (B. C.)16,160,20212,000,0004,160,2021822
16,160,20212,000,0004,160,202182216,501,02412,400,0004,101,024Year ending 5th Jan. 1821
16,501,02412,400,0004,101,024Year ending 5th Jan. 1821Great Britain.
Great Britain.Sinking Fund Loans.Purchase of stock.
Sinking Fund Loans.Purchase of stock.Total Sums received.Sums applicable to the—
Total Sums received.Sums applicable to the—1081l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.quoad1080l.1079£20,031,56930,198,000
£20,031,56930,198,000Exchequer Bills
Exchequer Bills7,000,000 Funding Exchequer Bills
7,000,000 Funding Exchequer Bills5,000 000 Loan12,000,000
5,000 000 Loan12,000,000461,539Bank of Ireland, Increase of Capital 500,000 Irish Currency being in British Currency
461,539Bank of Ireland, Increase of Capital 500,000 Irish Currency being in British Currency13,000,000
13,000,000500,0001Ireland
500,0001Ireland12,500,000Great Britain12,000,000
12,500,000Great Britain12,000,000Sinking Fund Loan, viz.
Sinking Fund Loan, viz.6,570,036
6,570,03681,630Surplus of Ways and Means, 1820
81,630Surplus of Ways and Means, 1820125,000Exchequer Bills for Public Works repaid198,000
125,000Exchequer Bills for Public Works repaid198,000500,000Surplus of Pecuniary Indemnity payable by the French Government
500,000Surplus of Pecuniary Indemnity payable by the French Government163,400Old Stores260,000
163,400Old Stores260,000200,000240,000
200,000240,0001,500,000(Excise Duties) Tea Duties2,500,000
1,500,000(Excise Duties) Tea Duties2,500,0004,000,000Annual Taxes3,000,000
4,000,000Annual Taxes3,000,000Estimate for 1821.Granted for 1820.
Estimate for 1821.Granted for 1820.WAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.
£20,031,56930,198,000
£20,031,56930,198,000Exchequer Bills
Exchequer Bills7,000,000 Funding Exchequer Bills
7,000,000 Funding Exchequer Bills5,000 000 Loan12,000,000
5,000 000 Loan12,000,000461,539Bank of Ireland, Increase of Capital 500,000 Irish Currency being in British Currency
461,539Bank of Ireland, Increase of Capital 500,000 Irish Currency being in British Currency13,000,000
13,000,000500,0001Ireland
500,0001Ireland12,500,000Great Britain12,000,000
12,500,000Great Britain12,000,000Sinking Fund Loan, viz.
Sinking Fund Loan, viz.6,570,036
6,570,03681,630Surplus of Ways and Means, 1820
81,630Surplus of Ways and Means, 1820125,000Exchequer Bills for Public Works repaid198,000
125,000Exchequer Bills for Public Works repaid198,000500,000Surplus of Pecuniary Indemnity payable by the French Government
500,000Surplus of Pecuniary Indemnity payable by the French Government163,400Old Stores260,000
163,400Old Stores260,000200,000240,000
200,000240,0001,500,000(Excise Duties) Tea Duties2,500,000
1,500,000(Excise Duties) Tea Duties2,500,0004,000,000Annual Taxes3,000,000
4,000,000Annual Taxes3,000,000Estimate for 1821.Granted for 1820.
Estimate for 1821.Granted for 1820.WAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.20,018,20030,083,688
20,018,20030,083,688706,400
706,400206,400Bills for Public Works
206,400Bills for Public Works500,000Irish Treasury Bills9,000,000
500,000Irish Treasury Bills9,000,000By Reduction of Unfunded Debt, viz.
By Reduction of Unfunded Debt, viz.1,771,888
1,771,88819,311,800
19,311,80019,311,80021,083,688
19,311,80021,083,688290,000Sinking Fund on do.410,000
290,000Sinking Fund on do.410,0001,000,000Interest on Exchequer Bills1,000,000
1,000,000Interest on Exchequer Bills1,000,00018,021,800
18,021,80018,021,80019,673,688
18,021,80019,673,6881,900,000Miscellaneous2,444,100
1,900,000Miscellaneous2,444,1001,195,100Ordnance1,199,650
1,195,100Ordnance1,199,6506,176,700Navy6,586,695
6,176,700Navy6,586,695£.8,750,000Army9,443,243
£.8,750,000Army9,443,2431821.1820.
1821.1820.SUPPLY.
SUPPLY.
20,018,20030,083,688
20,018,20030,083,688706,400
706,400206,400Bills for Public Works
206,400Bills for Public Works500,000Irish Treasury Bills9,000,000
500,000Irish Treasury Bills9,000,000By Reduction of Unfunded Debt, viz.
By Reduction of Unfunded Debt, viz.1,771,888
1,771,88819,311,800
19,311,80019,311,80021,083,688
19,311,80021,083,688290,000Sinking Fund on do.410,000
290,000Sinking Fund on do.410,0001,000,000Interest on Exchequer Bills1,000,000
1,000,000Interest on Exchequer Bills1,000,00018,021,800
18,021,80018,021,80019,673,688
18,021,80019,673,6881,900,000Miscellaneous2,444,100
1,900,000Miscellaneous2,444,1001,195,100Ordnance1,199,650
1,195,100Ordnance1,199,6506,176,700Navy6,586,695
6,176,700Navy6,586,695£.8,750,000Army9,443,243
£.8,750,000Army9,443,2431821.1820.
1821.1820.SUPPLY.
SUPPLY.l.l.1078l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1077l.l.l.l.l.l.1076l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1075l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.:1074 rose. He said, that the House having now discharged its functions by voting the Supplies, which ministers had found it their duty to ask for the service of the present year, and the estimates having been printed, and for some time past in the hands of the members, he now felt it his duty to submit to the committee a statement of the Ways and Means by which he proposed that the expense of those supplies should be met. The House were well aware, that for particular reasons, he could have been happy to defer entering on the subject to a future day. But, as he could not postpone the annual statement which it was customary for the chancellor of the exchequer to make without rendering his conduct liable to a serious misconstruction, he had not thought it right to interpose any delay, as he considered that nothing short of the most imperious necessity would justify him in taking such a course, or in suffering the task of bringing it forward, to devolve upon any of his hon. friends near him, although he was sensible that the duty might be discharged by them in a manner more satisfactory to the committee. Unwilling to intrude upon them, he took upon himself the performance of the duty, and would endeavour as clearly, but at the same time as shortly as possible, to bring the Ways and Means for the present year before the House.l.l.l.1087l.l.10861085l.l.l.l.l.l.1084l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1083l.l.l.l.l.l;l.l.ll.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1082l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.16,825,95812,l74,1624,651,4961822
16,825,95812,l74,1624,651,496182217,146,88912,400,0004,746,889Year ending 5th Jan. 1821
17,146,88912,400,0004,746,889Year ending 5th Jan. 1821United Kingdom.
United Kingdom.665,756174,462491,2941822
665,756174,462491,2941822645,865645,865Year ending 5th Jan. 1821
645,865645,865Year ending 5th Jan. 1821Ireland (B. C.)
Ireland (B. C.)16,160,20212,000,0004,160,2021822
16,160,20212,000,0004,160,202182216,501,02412,400,0004,101,024Year ending 5th Jan. 1821
16,501,02412,400,0004,101,024Year ending 5th Jan. 1821Great Britain.
Great Britain.Sinking Fund Loans.Purchase of stock.
Sinking Fund Loans.Purchase of stock.Total Sums received.Sums applicable to the—
Total Sums received.Sums applicable to the—
16,825,95812,l74,1624,651,4961822
16,825,95812,l74,1624,651,496182217,146,88912,400,0004,746,889Year ending 5th Jan. 1821
17,146,88912,400,0004,746,889Year ending 5th Jan. 1821United Kingdom.
United Kingdom.665,756174,462491,2941822
665,756174,462491,2941822645,865645,865Year ending 5th Jan. 1821
645,865645,865Year ending 5th Jan. 1821Ireland (B. C.)
Ireland (B. C.)16,160,20212,000,0004,160,2021822
16,160,20212,000,0004,160,202182216,501,02412,400,0004,101,024Year ending 5th Jan. 1821
16,501,02412,400,0004,101,024Year ending 5th Jan. 1821Great Britain.
Great Britain.Sinking Fund Loans.Purchase of stock.
Sinking Fund Loans.Purchase of stock.Total Sums received.Sums applicable to the—
Total Sums received.Sums applicable to the—1081l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.quoad1080l.1079£20,031,56930,198,000
£20,031,56930,198,000Exchequer Bills
Exchequer Bills7,000,000 Funding Exchequer Bills
7,000,000 Funding Exchequer Bills5,000 000 Loan12,000,000
5,000 000 Loan12,000,000461,539Bank of Ireland, Increase of Capital 500,000 Irish Currency being in British Currency
461,539Bank of Ireland, Increase of Capital 500,000 Irish Currency being in British Currency13,000,000
13,000,000500,0001Ireland
500,0001Ireland12,500,000Great Britain12,000,000
12,500,000Great Britain12,000,000Sinking Fund Loan, viz.
Sinking Fund Loan, viz.6,570,036
6,570,03681,630Surplus of Ways and Means, 1820
81,630Surplus of Ways and Means, 1820125,000Exchequer Bills for Public Works repaid198,000
125,000Exchequer Bills for Public Works repaid198,000500,000Surplus of Pecuniary Indemnity payable by the French Government
500,000Surplus of Pecuniary Indemnity payable by the French Government163,400Old Stores260,000
163,400Old Stores260,000200,000240,000
200,000240,0001,500,000(Excise Duties) Tea Duties2,500,000
1,500,000(Excise Duties) Tea Duties2,500,0004,000,000Annual Taxes3,000,000
4,000,000Annual Taxes3,000,000Estimate for 1821.Granted for 1820.
Estimate for 1821.Granted for 1820.WAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.
£20,031,56930,198,000
£20,031,56930,198,000Exchequer Bills
Exchequer Bills7,000,000 Funding Exchequer Bills
7,000,000 Funding Exchequer Bills5,000 000 Loan12,000,000
5,000 000 Loan12,000,000461,539Bank of Ireland, Increase of Capital 500,000 Irish Currency being in British Currency
461,539Bank of Ireland, Increase of Capital 500,000 Irish Currency being in British Currency13,000,000
13,000,000500,0001Ireland
500,0001Ireland12,500,000Great Britain12,000,000
12,500,000Great Britain12,000,000Sinking Fund Loan, viz.
Sinking Fund Loan, viz.6,570,036
6,570,03681,630Surplus of Ways and Means, 1820
81,630Surplus of Ways and Means, 1820125,000Exchequer Bills for Public Works repaid198,000
125,000Exchequer Bills for Public Works repaid198,000500,000Surplus of Pecuniary Indemnity payable by the French Government
500,000Surplus of Pecuniary Indemnity payable by the French Government163,400Old Stores260,000
163,400Old Stores260,000200,000240,000
200,000240,0001,500,000(Excise Duties) Tea Duties2,500,000
1,500,000(Excise Duties) Tea Duties2,500,0004,000,000Annual Taxes3,000,000
4,000,000Annual Taxes3,000,000Estimate for 1821.Granted for 1820.
Estimate for 1821.Granted for 1820.WAYS AND MEANS.
WAYS AND MEANS.20,018,20030,083,688
20,018,20030,083,688706,400
706,400206,400Bills for Public Works
206,400Bills for Public Works500,000Irish Treasury Bills9,000,000
500,000Irish Treasury Bills9,000,000By Reduction of Unfunded Debt, viz.
By Reduction of Unfunded Debt, viz.1,771,888
1,771,88819,311,800
19,311,80019,311,80021,083,688
19,311,80021,083,688290,000Sinking Fund on do.410,000
290,000Sinking Fund on do.410,0001,000,000Interest on Exchequer Bills1,000,000
1,000,000Interest on Exchequer Bills1,000,00018,021,800
18,021,80018,021,80019,673,688
18,021,80019,673,6881,900,000Miscellaneous2,444,100
1,900,000Miscellaneous2,444,1001,195,100Ordnance1,199,650
1,195,100Ordnance1,199,6506,176,700Navy6,586,695
6,176,700Navy6,586,695£.8,750,000Army9,443,243
£.8,750,000Army9,443,2431821.1820.
1821.1820.SUPPLY.
SUPPLY.
20,018,20030,083,688
20,018,20030,083,688706,400
706,400206,400Bills for Public Works
206,400Bills for Public Works500,000Irish Treasury Bills9,000,000
500,000Irish Treasury Bills9,000,000By Reduction of Unfunded Debt, viz.
By Reduction of Unfunded Debt, viz.1,771,888
1,771,88819,311,800
19,311,80019,311,80021,083,688
19,311,80021,083,688290,000Sinking Fund on do.410,000
290,000Sinking Fund on do.410,0001,000,000Interest on Exchequer Bills1,000,000
1,000,000Interest on Exchequer Bills1,000,00018,021,800
18,021,80018,021,80019,673,688
18,021,80019,673,6881,900,000Miscellaneous2,444,100
1,900,000Miscellaneous2,444,1001,195,100Ordnance1,199,650
1,195,100Ordnance1,199,6506,176,700Navy6,586,695
6,176,700Navy6,586,695£.8,750,000Army9,443,243
£.8,750,000Army9,443,2431821.1820.
1821.1820.SUPPLY.
SUPPLY.l.l.1078l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1077l.l.l.l.l.l.1076l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1075l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.:1074The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1091l.l1090l.l.l.l.l.1089l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1088 said, that the observations which he should now offer would refer, in a peculiar degree, to the supply for the year, as he could not see that there was any great objection to the general nature of the Ways and Means. In the early part of the session he had stated, that a saving might be made to a very considerable extent, under the head of "Supply," and he was sorry to see that so small a saving appeared to have been made. He would endeavour to point out what the real state of the country was at the present moment, and what he conceived would have been its state if judicious measures had been
1091l.l1090l.l.l.l.l.1089l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1088Mr. Maberly
1092l. did not participate in the general satisfaction which had been alluded to by the last speaker. With such a code of revenue laws as we possessed, it would indeed be matter of surprise if the taxes were not collected. But, after all, the total of the statement of the right hon. gentleman appeared to be, that if we took away a fund appropriated for the payment of the national creditor, we should have, 6,000,0001092l.Mr. Calcraft
 felt it his duty to oppose this immoral and unprofitable tax.Mr. Bernal
 said, that if this vice of the people was to be taxed, he saw no reason why the example of the bishop of Winchester should not be followed, and a tax be imposed upon the stews and brothels of the metropolis. He cared not for the money, but he did for the character and morality of the people.Mr. Bennet
 defended the lottery, as a less objectional mode of taxation than many taxes which already existed. If the tax were withdrawn, there could be no doubt that the same or a greater amount of money would be expended by the people in gambling of another description.Mr. Cripps
 reminded the committee, that there were acts in force for the protection of all animals within the bills of mortality. He should wish this bill to go farther, and protect all animals.Mr. Alderman Wood
 suggested, that the cruelty of an owner to his animals should equally be included in the bill.Lord Binning
 hoped no sentiment of ridicule would operate on the mover of this bill, to prevent his persevering.Mr. Bernal
 objected to the bill as a new principle in the criminal law.The Attorney-General
 thought the principle of the bill a good one, but lie did not see why its enactments should be confined to horses. He thought that asses should also be protected from the cruelty to which they were so often exposed, and would move that the word "asses" should be inserted.Mr. Alderman C. Smith
1096l.1095l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1094l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l?l.l.l.l.l.1093l.l.l.l.l.l. said, that the chancellor of the exchequer always gave a most flattering account of the state of the country. Last session he had declared that the funds which would be applicable to the expenditure of the present year would be much greater than what he had now stated them to be. He had stated that the addition to the sinking fund would have been 1,700,0001096l.1095l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1094l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l?l.l.l.l.l.1093l.l.l.l.l.l.Mr. Ricardo
 said, that when so many barbarities prevailed in fishing and hunting, and other species of amusement, it was idle to legislate without including all possible cases.Mr. Ricardo
1098 thought it was very absurd to go through the farce of borrowing a certain sum from the commissioners for the reduction of the national debt, or, in other words, taking away part of the sinking fund, when the same object might be answered by cancelling so much of the
1098Mr. Ellice
 opposed the system of lotteries. If the practice were once admitted to be bad, he saw no reason why it should be continued.Mr. Gipps
 felt it his duty to oppose the bill, on the broad ground that, under no circumstances, the removal of slaves from insular to continental possessions ought to be countenanced. Parliament could not pass the present bill in favour of Mr. Maxwell, and refuse similar applications on the part of other proprietors; and many persons were waiting for the result of the present proceeding, and who regarded the application of Mr. Maxwell as a sort of forlorn hope. Should it succeed, the doors of parliament would be surrounded with persons urging similar claims. Besides, to grant such exemptions would be equally impolitic and unjust. It would be highly dangerous to transport slaves from insular possessions, to which they were attached, and on which the British navy could be easily brought to operate in case of any insurrectionary movements; and, with respect to the slaves themselves, to tear them away from the place of their birth—from a country where the arts of social life had advanced, to remote and uncivilized regions would be highly oppressive. Under all the circumstances, he felt it his duty to move, as an amendment, that the bill be read a second time that day three months.Mr. Goulburn
1069 on moving the second reading of this bill, said the application was made from motives of humanity. He yielded to no man in wishing emancipation to the negroes. If he thought the effect
1069Mr. J. P. Grant,
1097 said, that the chancellor, of the exchequer had spoken of the magnanimity with which the people bore their burthens. The agricultural portion of the community had, indeed, exhibited magnanimity; but what magnanimity had been displayed by the stockholder, who was getting double what he gave? The magnanimity and the patience were all
1097Mr. Lockhart
 considered the bill altogether unnecessary. It arose out of that spirit of legislation which was too prevalent in the present day. If a bill for the protection of horses and asses should pass, he should not be surprised to find some other member proposing a bill for the protection of dogs [a member here said "and cats"]. He thought it better that such matters should not be made the subject of legislation.Mr. Monck
 thought the present law defective, inasmuch as whatever might be the brutality, yet malice must be proved in order to punish the offender.Mr. Warre
 shortly supported the second reading. He wished Mr. Maxwell to have the opportunity of proving his facts; if he did not establish them, then would be the time for throwing out the measure.Mr. Barham
l.l.l. adverted to the report of the Finance Committee of 1817, by which it was recommended that these estimates should never for the future exceed 17,550,000l.l.l.Mr. Hume
 considered the bill unjust and oppressive, because it was a measure for the transportation of 329 persons from a dry and healthy climate to a new country.Dr. Phillimore
 objected to the measure as wholly unnecessary. It would have the effect of punishing servants, whilst it would leave untouched the conduct of owners of horses, who were often cruel in matching them to perform great distances, in very short periods of time. He could not but think that the House was too prone to legislation upon subjects which did not require it.Mr. Colborne
l.l. did not wish to interrupt the general satisfaction which the statement of the chancellor of the exchequer had produced; but when he talked of certain balances claimed by the East India Company, as being of a doubtful nature he could not allow that which appeared to him to be an evident breach of faith to pass unnoticed. That balances were due to the Company by the government had never been denied till this hour. It was fresh in the recollection of the House that the Company had given up their island of St. Helena to government for the purpose of keeping Buonaparte in safe custody. This was done with an understanding that the detention of that individual should not cost the Company any thing. But what was the fact? It had cost them annually between 2 and 300,000l.l.Mr. Astell
 said, that any gentleman who had been at Paris and passed through the Palais Royal, might have seen gaming, and other still more immoral practices carried on, from all of which a revenue was derived to the government; and the same arguments for continuing the lottery would be equally applicable to them.Mr. W. Smith
 opposed the bill, its object being to remove 329 human beings from the place of their nativity. To tear people from a good dry soil to the swamps of Demerara, was an act to which he never would become a party. Besides, their food would be changed, and their work augmented, Now, every one knew how different were the conditions of Antigua and Demerara; in fact, no greater difference could be conceived than existed between these colonies. In Antigua, such was the progress of improvement, that the coloured people voted at elections, and were allowed to give testimony in civil as well as in criminal cases; but in Demerara they were slaves in every sense of the term. What compensation, then, could be given these 329 negroes for removing them from a place where, by their industry, they could purchase their manumission and become useful members of society, to a quarter where a dungeon would be their abode, and where, with a stinted food, they would be compelled to additional labour? Again, in Antigua a great portion of the population, enjoyed the blessings of Christianity. Were these 329 persons to be reduced to such a deteriorated condition, in order that the plantation of an individual might be made to yield a heavier crop? Whatever the humanity of Mr. Maxwell might be, sure he was, that the House would give its opposition to such a claim.Mr. Wilberforce
ll. said, that instead of the new taxes producing 3,000,000ll.Sir H. Parnell
 believed, from what he knew of the situation, that the slaves would rather have their throats cut than be removed to Demerara.Sir I. Coffin
1072ardentia verba said, that those who were unacquainted with the subject, must have supposed that, as the law stood, Mr. Max well was obliged to keep his slaves in the; island of Antigua; else to what purpose speak of the cruelty of tearing men from their connexions, of the supposed excellence of the laws of the society, or the moral and religious state of the island? The same statements were also contained in: a paper, which came, he believed, from its eloquence, from a learned friend of his (Mr. Stephen), no longer a member of the House. But how did these 1072ardentia verbaSir J. Mackintosh
 thought the subject not a fit one for legislation, and that gentlemen might as well bring in a bill against hunting the hare.Mr. Scarlett
 expressed his surprise that it should be attempted to make this enlightened country incur the disgrace of extending slavery on the continent of South America, while the principles of liberty were rapidly advancing in that quarter of the world.Sir R. Wilson
 was of opinion that what had occurred with respect to the revenue of Ireland would ultimately happen to the revenue of England. He argued, that taxation, augmented beyond a certain extent, must produce, not an increased, but a diminished revenue; a position which he exemplified by referring to a variety of articles which, having been taxed too high in Ireland, produced much less to the revenue than they had previously done.Sir J. Newport
1108110711061105 said, that so far
1108110711061105The Attorney General
 thought the exceptions in the bill were subversive of all fairness and justice; seeing that, they negotiable securities of the Bank land on a different footing from any private or country banker.Mr. Marryat
 thought that this bill was forward at a most inauspicious time. The persons who had been long accustomed to forge would not be idle; but would go on, and profit of the interval that must elapse before any of these provisions could be finally enacted by parliament.Mr. Mills
1112 believed that the crime of forgery was carried on to a greater extent in this country than in all the rest of civilized Europe. There must be therefore something wrong in the present law. It had been contended that the punishment of death was not safely to be dispensed with. In Holland, however—a country where the people were very conversant with all matters that regarded the security of their private interests, and the interest of the state—the crime of forgery was not punished with death; in Hamburgh it was not so punishable; in the French commercial code death was not the punishment attached to it. In assimilating the law of this kingdom to the law of the greater portion of the civilized world, the House consequently need not apprehend that inundation of forgeries which had been denounced as the immediate effect of such a measure. The punishment at present decreed by our law was either transportation or death. Transportation in many cases, however, so far from being an effective punishment, was an event much desired, and as to the punishment of death, it had been proved by experience that the dread of it would never effectually operate to deter from the commission of the crime. Desperate men who were reduced to such an extremity, were very willing to put their lives to hazard. Yet these very men might look at the punishment of six or ten years' hard labour, as one which they must sink under. As to the bill, he could
1112Mr. Baring
 then moved to except out of the bill "any promissory note, bill of exchange, or order for the payment of money drawn by, or upon, or made payable by any banker or bankers."Mr. Cripps
 said the clause proposed would include every bill in commercial transactions. If the House admitted this clause, the bill might as well be thrown out altogether.Mr. Baring
l. said, he was desired to mention to the House that a banking-house of the greatest eminence had lost 10,000l.Dr. Lushington
 said, he would vote, for the third reading, protesting, however, against the exceptions which had been introduced.Mr. Harbord
 said, he heartily agreed in the principle of the House, he hoped it would be received elsewhere with that attention which was due to a measure which bead undergone so much consideration. He regretted that the noble lord had made that stage of the bill the cause of division and debate.Mr. Brougham
 observed, that the bill was considered an experiment. Now the term experiment implied a doubt of success, and in this case a failure would be productive of much greater evils than those which the measure was intended to remedy.Mr. Dent
 opposed the exceptions in favour of the Bank, and dwelt on the increased risks to which they would subject the country bankers and others.Mr. Lockhart
1111 thought it would be great advantage if the seller of forged notes could be punished by the operation of this bill. He was not for severely punish-
1111Mr. Pearse
 believed that the severity of punishment had been one great cause of the increase of crime; because it restrained people from prosecuting. It would be very difficult, however, to show why the Bank of England should be protected in preference to other bankers. He thought, on the contrary, that the Bank had almost less pretence to such an exclusive advantage than any other set of individuals. The notes of the country banks were better executed and less easily imitated than those of the Bank of England.Mr. John Smith
 would oppose the bill, unless a distinction were made between bills of exchange and bankers checks. The latter were more easily forged, and therefore to that offence the capital punishment should still attach.Mr. Hart Davis
 contended that all forgers, if asked in a body, whether they would rather have the punishment of death with all its chances of escape, than the certainty of hard labour for ten years to be the law, would answer in the affirmative. He had lately been in a coffee-house where a person had been pointed out to him as one who had prosecuted a friend for forgery. The friend had been hanged, and this person was regarded by every one with execration. He knew many who had prosecuted for forgery, and who would lament it to the day of their death. In Ireland the forging of a will was not a capital felony, and it did not occur more frequently there than in England.Mr. R. Martin
11101109 said, if he was not convinced of the injurious tendency of the measure now under consideration by the acute and ingenious speech of his learned friend the attorney-general, it did not proceed from his not having paid due attention to all the arguments which he had urged in opposition to it. He had carefully canvassed every part of the measure; and he could declare, with the most clear conscience, that in his mind, every objection which had been raised against the bill had been completely removed in the course of the different discussions to which it had given rise. Unless he had been satisfied of the safety, expediency, and he would almost say necessity of the measure, no feeling of friendship nor sentiment of partiality should have induced him to support it. The attorney-general had said, "Here is an admission made—here is a concession granted; even the advocates of the bill are compelled to abandon the ground on which it originally rested." Now he would state that he did not abandon any portion of the measure, except from absolute necessity. He took all he could obtain, and he took it thankfully; but he regretted that he could not procure the whole of what he desired. He acted from a principle of expediency, because he should be sorry if, in consequence of opposition, the success of the measure, as it at present stood, were put in peril. Therefore he gave up points from which otherwise he would not recede. The attorney-general had asserted that it was a constant principle of the English law to decree the highest possible punishment to any class of crime, the most flagrant instances of which could alone justify the infliction of that punishment. He protested against this, doctrine. He could find no such principle in the common law of England—although it might be perceived in the conflicting and contradictory enactments of the legislature, founded on temporary circumstances. It had been argued, that severity of punishment prevented crime, because it struck a salutary terror into the minds of bad men. He, however, thought otherwise: it appeared to him that excessive punishment struck terror into the minds, not of offenders, but of those who were injured, and whom it prevented from prosecuting. Those who saw the necessity of an alteration, in the law did not act
11101109Mr. Denman
 stated the object of the merchants and bankers in presenting a petition. The petitioners conceived that mercantile property was entitled to the same protection as the bank of England.Mr. T. Wilson
 said, he would bore opposed the bill if the anomalous distinction between forgery on the Bank of England and forgery on country banks and private individuals had not been removed. Adverting to the punishment of transportation, he observed that every body allowed that it was practically inoperative. It was an additional reason with him, therefore, in voting for this bill, that it would compel the legislature to look out for some secondary punishment more effectual. He thought nothing so likely to deter from crime as the punishment of hard labour for a term of years, combined with as plain and moderate food as was consistent with the support of life.Mr. Wilmot
11041103110211011100 said, that from the objections which had been made to this measure, he felt it necessary to submit a few observations to the House. He should endeavour to state, as briefly as possible, the changes which this bill proposed to enact—the principles upon which those
11041103110211011100Sir J. Mackintosh
 strongly objected to this manœuvre of the noble lord, observing that many of the friends of the bill had quitted the House, in the persuasion that no further opposition was intended. Since he had sat in parliament he said he had never known so unworthy a manœuvre practised. Sir James ended by moving "that the House do now adjourn," and after a warm discussion, in which Mr. Brougham, lord John Russell, and lord Londonderry took part, the two former-representing the proceeding as a parliamentary stratagem; a division took place on the question. "That the Bill do pass." Ayes 115. Noes 121. The Bill was consequently lost.Sir J. Mackintosh
1118111711161115 rose to present a petition from Thomas Dolby, bookseller, in the Strand. The petitioner began by complaining, that after being established in busines for 13 years, and never having been subjected to any prosecution, he had been lately twice exposed to it, by a self-denominated "Constitutional Association." That after having escaped the vigilance of the attorney-general and the secretary of state for the home department, whom he Considered to be the only persons appointed by law and the constitution to take cognizance of the offence of libel, he had fallen into the clutches of an association which had constituted itself an auxiliary to those two officers of the Crown. He said that the alleged libel, for which an indictment had been preferred against him, was contained in an obscure periodical publication, which he had discontinued before the prosecution was commenced. He stated, that after a true bill had been found against him upon such indictment, he was held to bail fop his appearance, thereto, and for his good behaviour in the
1118111711161115Dr. Lushington
 denied that the administration of justice could not be impartial in the small West-India islands. He had lived in one of them ten years, and had twice had occasion to go into a, court of justice. One of his accusations was brought Against the president of the island, another against one of he judges. In both cases he had obtained verdicts, which could not have been given had the system been such as had been described. The proposition for a sort of ambulatory or sailing commission to administer justice in all the West-India islands, he thought very objectionable. He should hot object to a commission being sent but to inquire into the administration of justice in Tobago, but the appointment of a select committee would certainly meet with his opposition.Mr. Marryat
l.1126 said, he had a communication to make to the House from his royal highness the duke, of Clarence, which had obtained the sanction on of his majesty. Before he made it,
l.1126The Marquis of Londonderry
l. said, it would be in the recollection of the House that the duke of Clarence had (being at that time about to go abroad) declined accepting the grant of 6,000l.The Marquis of Londonderry
l.l. said, that the subject would be better discussed when the question came before the committee. The grant proposed some years ago to the princess of Wales of 50,000l.l.The Marquis of Londonderry
 contended, that the misfortunes of the individuals alluded to arising as they did out of their inviolate allegiance, entitled them to the peculiar consideration of the House.Sir Scope Moreland
l. said, that if the claims of the loyalists were good for anything, the claims of the merchant creditors were equally so. There were three descriptions of loyalists: 1st, The landed proprietors; 2nd, Persons resident in America, who had claims in America, but against whom the courts of justice had been closed. 3rd, Merchants who were in a similar situation. After the struggle in America had terminated the House had made compensation to the first class. No compensation was made to the others; because the British government thought that the difficulties in the claims of those persons would have been removed. After much negociation, a commission was opened at Philadelphia on the subject, and there the question was mooted, whether those claimants were entitled to redress. The majority of the commissioners decided in favour of their claims, but the Americans, contrary to good faith, broke up the commission, and thus the matter ended. Under the advice of lord Liverpool, their claims were subsequently entertained by the American government, and a fund of 600,000l.Mr. Buring
 said, that from the best Consideration be was able to give the case of those persons, he thought their claims were founded policy and justice.Mr. Wynn
 opposed the motion, contending, that it was to the American government, and not to this Country, that these loyalist sought to appeal. By the act of 1783, they had received as much compensation as the circumstances of the country could afford.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 consented to withdraw his motion, and moved, instead thereof, "That this House will, early in the next session, appoint a Select Committee to inquire into the Administration of Justice in the Island of Tobago."Lord Nugent
112311221121de lunatico inquirendo.1120 rose to move for a committee to inquire into certain abuses in the Administration of Justice in the island of Tobago. He said, that towards the end of the last session, Mr. Capper, who had been attorney general of the island, had stated certain facts that appeared to him to amount to flagrant denials of justice, and indeed to great personal cruelty. Mr. Capper having been appointed early in 1819, went out to Tobago, but soon found that he must either make himself a party to the unjust practices prevailing, must subject himself to a life of disquiet and mortification, or must relinquish his appointment. He preferred the latter, and returning at great personal inconvenience, he laid the whole case before the Colonial department. Lord Bathurst communicated with the authorities of the island on the subject; he received a report denying the charges, and imputing unworthy motives to Mr. Capper; and upon that report his lord-
112311221121de lunatico inquirendo.1120Lord Nugent
1124 said, he would not follow the noble lord into the details of his state-
1124Mr. Goulburn
 regretted that his noble friend had not confined himself to the precise object of his motion, instead of deviating into general assertions and statements. It was his intention to submit an amendment, in order to make the motion commensurate with the charges. After defending the planters from the loose and unwarranted accusations which were continually made against them, he moved, by way of amendment, "That this House will, early in the next session, appoint a Select Committee to inquire into the Administration of Justice in the West-India Colonies."Mr. Barham
 begged to ask whether, this being a new parliament, a specific message from the Crown ought not to have been sent down upon the subject? He thought it ought also to be ascertained, whether his late majesty had not left property behind him, out of which the duke of Clarence migh be provided for, without saddling the consolidated fund with a charge which it was unable to bear?Mr. Hume
 certainly thought the hon. baronet referred to some caricature connected with an observation he (Mr. D.) had made in another place, in which he had introduced the name of Nero.Mr. Denman
1119 gave the hon. baronet full credit for all his assertions. He was
1119Mr. Denman
1127 rose to bring forward his motion on this subject. The hon. member entered into a variety of arguments to show that the loyalists, who had been ruined in their property in consequence of their allegiance to their sovereign, were entitled to particular consideration. There was, he contended, a broad distinction between those who had lost their property in consequence of their loyalty, and those
1127Mr. W. Courtenay
 Contended, that the persons whose claims were before the Houses were, after their long sufferings, entitled to the sympathy and Consideration of parliament.Mr. Money
 contended, that the promises held forth in the proclamations of our generals were binding on this country; and denied that the inability to make compensation could be urged with effect, when larger compensations were allowed to persons whose claims were not so strong.Mr. W. Smith
 rose to second the motion. With respect to the conduct of Mr. Pigott, he should merely observe, that men of good intentions were often warped in their conduct by the influence of the prejudices and habits of the associations into which they were thrown. What, he would ask, must be the state of society in a place where such oppression was suffered to exist? What remedy could be devised in order to produce a better state of things? The fair remedy would be to make a trial, whether justice could not be administered in the island by those over whom prejudice could have very little influence, and circumstances none whatsoever. Why could not justice be administered by persons who should make a circuit of the island, like the judges of England? Why were the interests of justice supposed to be safer in the hands of our judges than in those of the local magistracy? Because the former could not be influenced by local feelings, and in all probability formed but few local acquaintances. In the West Indies, more particularly in the small islands, the case was directly the reverse. They had heard much of- the respectability of the House of Assembly at Tobago; but he believed that, with the exception of the chief-justice and one other individual, the 22 or 23 members of whom it was composed were agents and attorneys. If this were so, then these 22 or 23 persons formed a society amongst themselves; and a man, whether he were rich or poor, stood a very bad chance of succeeding when he set up the justice of his case against the prejudices of those individuals. It was morally impossible to establish an efficient local jurisdiction in the small islands, if the existing system were continued.Mr. W. Smith
 thought, from the facts which had been stated, the presumption was, that acts of gross impropriety had occurred, and was therefore of opinion that inquiry ought to take place. This was due even to the individuals who were implicated. The inquiry would, he thought, be better prosecuted in this country, and he therefore hoped the suggestion of his hon. and learned friend would be agreed to.Mr. Wilberforce
 said he had, nearly forty years ago, supported the claim of these same persons. He had then thought that to refuse their claim would be unjust. Had the promise been made by parliament? Undoubtedly it had. Were they loyalists? They really and truly were. Their claim could not, therefore, consistently with the good faith of parliament, be rejectedMr. Wilberforce
1125 was desirous that the present proceeding should be remedial hot criminatory. The questions for the House to determine were, first, was there a case for any inquiry at all; secondly, if that question were answered in the affirmative what ought to be the time and place of
1125Sir J. Mackintosh
 said, he had made no allusion whatever to the learned member.Sir M. Cholmeley
 said that he should be deficient in duty, as well as in manliness, if, as his name was among the subscribers to the Constitutional Association, he did not stand forward to state the reasons that induced him to belong to it. When he first came to town to attend his duty in parliament, he had been greatly shocked in passing, through the streets to see offensive placards on the walls, and gross caricatures in the shops. He observed that sedition and blasphemy were increasing daily, and he was of course anxious to put a stop to their progress. He remembered that when he was a young man, if a person wanted to see a bad caricature, he could not do so without going into the shop; but now they were thrust upon the notice of the passengers; and no man could go through the streets without having his eyes insulted by the most offensive placards and comparisons of an odious kind between the highest personage and the greatest of tyrants. He had even seen a representation of a bull with a woman on its back, which woman was meant for a royal personage. When it was at first proposed to him to belong to this association, he had particularly, asked whether it had any political view, and he was answered that it was not intended to prosecute libels upon any political party but generally to put down disloyalty. Being assured that such only was its object, he had promised to attend the meetings but on account of his frequent presence in parliament, and the late hours to which the House had sat, he was able to do so, and could not therefore hold himself responsible for what had been done in his absence.Sir M. Cholmeley
1146 said, that his hon. friend had truly described the constitution given to the Ionian islands as a mere mockery, a trick, a juggle. It was high sounding and pompous, indeed; something to the ear; a little to the eyes; but in fact—in substance—nothing. It was something like those constitutions which, for the last twenty years, the French government had been in the frequent habit of promulgating; but, whatever were their specious pretensions, in the one case, the power of the emperor, and in the other the exorbitant power of the lord high commissioner, effectually abrogated them. As for the lord high commissioner, he had so fashioned the constitution which he had given to these people, that while there was some appearance preserved of his Own measures being liable to parliamentary cognizance, he, in fact, behind the scenes, was the head, the master Punchinello, who worked the puppets within just as he pleased, and directed all their movements. The hon. gentleman had said, that this government worked well. He begged the House to consider whether it did or no. Let them look at the case of Battaglia, for instance. This person and his ancestors had held a property, derived from the church, ever since the year 1387. A captain of marines made a report of this circumstance; a Venetian law forbade the alienation of church property, and the property was declared to be forfeited to the church. Upon such a principle, all those church lands, lying in every part of this kingdom, which had been seized by Harry the eighth, and parcelled out among innumerable persons, would be at this day equally insecure. It had been objected to his hon. friend that the charges he had brought forward were not of a sufficiently specific nature. This did appear a singular objection, for certainly he had never heard charges more minute or fuller of particulars. In what did these consist? There was the case, in the first place, of Martinengo. He did not believe that such a thing was ever heard of in this country as a man's being brought to trial upon 6uch a charge. But the hon. gentleman considered the punishment as not a severe one. What! twelve years' imprisonment no severe punishment to a man 66 years of age? The hon. gentleman contended that it was necessary to invest the lord high commissioner with absolute power for the protection of and benefit of the people. Would the House
1146Mr. Bennet
1148 rose to —a few remarks in answer to the
1148The Marquis of Londonderry
 said, he did not mean to make any charge against sir T. Maitland. His conduct was not the subject in question: but he had seen enough of the Ionian isles, to convince him that the subjects of that country lived under a dispensation of law, which, he thanked God, no other part of the empire lived under. With respect to the case of Martinengo, he would only beg the attention of the House to the kind of law which was administered in those islands. Of the charge brought; against him, it would be impossible for the most acute man in that House to conjecture, from the manner in which it was stated in the document before him; it stated that the prisoner, in the name of the senate, was charged with crimes and offences against the state, as principal; actor in the same. Crimes and offences against the state might mean every thing or nothing. He contended, that on the face of the indictment there was no charge made against the accused, against which he could be prepared to defend himself. It might be very well that the lord chief commissioner should be invested with the power of the doge of Venice; and, by way of making the thing more palatable to the people and more respectable in the eyes of the British parliament, it might be well to have added to that the powers of the inquisitors of Venice: but, at all events, it was but right that the existence of such things should be known to that House in order that it might redress them.Mr. Brougham
1144114311421141in toto1140 begged leave to say, with respect to the treaty of Paris, on which the present constitution of the Ionian
1144114311421141in toto1140Mr. Goulburn
1147 said, he was confident the conduct of sir T. Maitland required explanation only; but as the motion went to impute misconduct to him, he could not support it. The constitution upon which he acted had been laid upon the table of the House, and had not called for any comment. Whether it was wise to leave the Venetian laws for the government of these islands was one thing, but it was another to blame sir T. M. for having acted under them. In the case of Martinengo, it was no part of sir Thomas's duty to reform the law. The laws in existence were those of Venice. The property confiscated was applied to building churches. Persons whose property
1147Mr. J. P. Grant
l.l.,l.l.1139espionage.113811371136113511341133amende honorable,1132113111301129 said, that he was aware of the situation in which he was about to place himself, by submitting to the consideration of the House a subject involving several points of importance, not only to individuals, but also to the public at large. As he had no personal acquaintance whatsoever with sir T. Maitland, he trusted that the House would give him credit when he stated that the observations which he had to make upon the conduct of that individual were such as were extorted from him by a sense of public duty, and the events which had occurred in the Ionian Islands since he had acted there as lord commissioner. He could have wished that ministers had been present at this discussion [loud cries of "Hear"!] because some of the comments which he should have to make upon the conduct of sir T. Maitland seemed also to apply to the noble secretary of state for the colonial department (lord Bathttrst.) He was given to understand that all communications which had been made; from the Ionian Islands to England had been made through the office of lord Bathurst; and if that were the case, at if the facts
l.l.,l.l.1139espionage.113811371136113511341133amende honorable,1132113111301129Mr. Hume
1149 observed, in reply, that he must, notwithstanding all he had heard, still consider sir T. Maitland as culpable in a high degree, inasmuch as he had had the power of preventing the occurrence of those unfortunate scenes which had taken place in the islands. It had been mentioned, that during the course of sir T. Maitland's public services this was the first time that any complaint or reflection had been made against him. That he denied; and it was well known to the hon.
1149Mr. Hume
 considered the situation of the inhabitants of the Ionian islands peculiarly unfortunate. They were entitled to a free constitution by the treaty of Paris; but nothing had been resorted to but the mockery of a constitution.Mr. Lennard
 said, he would defy any man to say what the crime of Martinengo was from the manner in which the charge against him had been stated. With respect to the powers given to a colonel of marines over the houses of religious worship, he considered it unjust, impolitic, and calculated to excite the jealousy and discontent of the people. The power of sir T. Maitland over the islands was to great for any man to be entrusted with it was not defined, it was not limited. Every friend to the Ionians should vote for inquiry, because in that case the causes of discontent might be ascertained. Nay, every friend of sir T. Maitland ought to call for investigation; because, without investigation, it would be impossible for him to escape censure.Mr. Evans
 thought the friends of sir T. Maitland had reason to complain that the most trifling circumstances connected with his conduct had been magnified into Crimes. Much good might result from a revision of the laws; but sir T. Maitland had acted only as the agent of those laws.Mr. Money
 said, he had known sir T. Maitland 35 years, and a more able and gallant officer did not exist.Sir I. Coffin
 said, that though he saw no ground for impeaching sir T. Maitland's conduct, he should vote for an inquiry into the system. If he were sir Thomas, he would be the first to call for an inquiry. It would be better for the inhabitants to be under an arbitrary government, than under one organised like the present.Sir R. Wilson
 said, it would be recollected, that in 1818 a proposition for increasing the provision allowed to different branches of the royal family received the sanction of the House. It arose from the Prince Regent deeming, necessary to bring under the consideration of parliament the situation, of certain, branches of the royal family then on the point of contracting marriage. In laying before the House, in 1818, the necessity of making an addition to the allowances of the royal family, it was his duty to suggest, that in. the failure of heirs to the duke of York, the country must naturally look to the succession to the Crown being kept up by the younger branches of the royal family, and that, therefore, it was proper for them to contract marriages with individuals of suitable rank. Here the noble marquis apologized for having commenced his statement before the House was in committee. He then moved, "That the Speaker do now leave the chair."The Marquis of Londonderry
l.l.1152 said, that with respect to what took place in 1818, he would briefly observe that, from certain circumstances, that which parliament then meant to effect was not realized; and in consequence the present grant was called for. It was true that the allowances of the royal family were settled in 1806; but those allowances referred, not to the married, but to the unmarried state of the parties. Now, though lord Grenville's administration increased the allowance to the royal family when they were not married, it did not follow that a farther increase ought to be withheld when their situation was essentially altered. The scale of provision submitted to the House in 1818, did not meet the feelings of parliament, and that general scale underwent a considerable reduction. The situation of the duke of Clarence stood on special grounds; but, though it was contemplated to give to him a larger sum than to the other members of the royal family, the House manifested an unwillingness to place him in a better situation than that in which his royal brothers stood. Still he was perfectly sure that the feelings of the House were entirely in favour of the minor grant; and when he wished to withdraw the report, a right hon. gentleman expressed a desire that it should be brought up, in order that the House might express its sense of this
l.l.1152The Marquis of Londonderry
 objected to the suggestion of the hon. member, which went to destroy the spirit in which his proposition was conceived.The Marquis of Londonderry
jure coronœ,1158l.;l.l.l.1157l. said, that in adverting to the 2,500jure coronœ,1158l.;l.l.l.1157l.The Marquis of Londonderry
l. said, that what he has understood was, that the grant of 2,500l.Mr. Williams
 said, that what he meant to observe was, that parliament, in granting to the royal family incomes upon former occasions, had not taken any notice of their accidental or professional emoluments.The Marquis of Londonderry
"When he will, he shall have nay.""He that will not when he may,l.Yorkel.l.1161 contended that the private conduct of any of the princes of the blood royal ought not to become the subject of discussion when any grant was proposed for the maintenance of their royal dignity. He thought that on the present occasion there had been a good deal of inconsistency on both sides. A former grant to the duke and duchess of Cumberland had been objected to on grounds which he considered unfair and ungenerous. He thought it was unfair and illiberal to allow scandalous rumours to weigh with them on such occasions. From every thing which had come to his knowledge on this subject, nothing could be more praiseworthy than the conduct of the duchess of Cumberland. He had understood the noble lord to state, that the proposed grant was for the purpose I of placing the duke of Clarence upon a foot-
"When he will, he shall have nay.""He that will not when he may,l.Yorkel.l.1161Mr. Forbes
l.l. felt himself bound to support the grant of 6,000l.l.Mr. Harbord
l.l.1160l. observed, that having supported the grant of 6,000l.l.1160l.Mr. Tierney
l. had no objection to granting the additional 6,000l.Mr. Bright
l.l. said, that having three years ago assented to the grant of 6,000l.l.Mr. Brougham
1151l.l. referred to what had fallen from the chancellor of the exchequer on a former evening. The right hon. gentleman had said, that, the country could not afford, to pay the debt claimed by the American loyalists, who asked for thing more than what was strictly just Now if, they could not afford to pay a debt of strict justice, the House would not, he hoped, be hasty in doing an act, not of justice, but of mere grace, bounty, and national generosity. But, independently of this, alterations had occurred with respect to the value of our currency which rendered, the present time peculiarly ill-suited for a grant of this nature, It was during Mr. Fox's administration that the present allowance was made. At that time 6,0001151l.l.Mr. Monck
l.l.l.1156l,l.l.1155l.l.l.l.l.1154l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.,l.,l.l. said, that if the noble lord would be content to give the duke of Clarence no more than his brothers possessed, he was ready to go so far with him. The noble lord had called on the House not to place the duke on a worse footing than the younger branches of the royal family. He, for one, was ready to place his royal highness on an equality with his brothers. The late duke of Kent and the duke of Cambridge had each 18,000l.l.l.1156l,l.l.1155l.l.l.l.l.1154l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.,l.,l.l.Mr. Hume
 thought the noble lord ought to divide his proposition into two parts. To the first part, the House would perhaps agree; but the second involved a question of arrears, which he conceived ought not to be granted.Mr. Hume
1163l. then withdrew his amendment for reducing the grant to 3,5001163l.Mr. Hume
l.jure coronœ. said, that the estates of his late majesty, as he had not disposed of them by a valid instrument, had certainly devolved to the king l.jure coronœ.Mr. Huskisson
l.jure coronœ, said, that the part of the proposition to which he most objected, was the payment of the arrears, of which he would not consent to vote a shilling. If the duke wanted the sum voted him in 1818, why did he not accept it? If he did not want it, why was parliament now to be called upon to pay it from that period? Adverting to the property of his late majesty, he observed, that as that property had fallen to the king l.jure coronœ,Mr. W. Smith
l. expressed his entire concurrence in the proposed grant of 6,000l.Sir F. Blake
 thought, that though the duke of Clarence had no legal claim to the grant, he had an equitable one. It would, he thought, be an inconsistency in the House, to act upon the refusal of his royal highness on a former occasion, and would have the appearance of a vindictive feeling, which it would not become the House to entertain. As to the arrears, he thought that as it was now more than twelve months since the return of his royal highness to this country, the arrears ought to be allowed for that time at least.Sir R. Wilson
l. regretted that upon a question of this importance a specific message from the Crown had not been brought down. The grant under discussion had been voted, three parliaments ago. If this was made a precedent, no one knew to what consequences it would lead. He was ready to vote for the 6,000l.Lord Milton
l. replied, that though the circumstance adverted to was of great importance, yet that any intention of making a change in the salaries, in consequence of the change in the value of money, ought to be preceded by a considerable notice. The object in which the Treasury were now engaged was, in considering how the business of the public departments might be best conducted with a view to simplification and economy.l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1166 observed, that the expense of this item had become enormous,
1166Mr. Arbuthnot
l.1165l.l.l.l. could see no objection to a separate statement of the expense of each department. The vote was in its present form, because the fee fund paid the expenses of the departments in question as far as it went, and it was only for the deficiency that application was made to parliament. He would say a few words on the salaries of the secretaries of the Treasury and the clerks. By the finance reports of 1797, it appeared, that in the last year of the American war, the emoluments of the secretaries of the Treasury were 5,000l.1165l.l.l.l.Mr. Arbuthnot
l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1164l.l.l;l.l.l.l.,l.,l., observed, that it would be much more intelligible if, instead of the balance, the whole expense of the departments in question were stated, and stated separately. The expense of those departments had considerably increased within a few years. In 1796 the whole expense of the Treasury establishment was 26,943l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.1164l.l.l;l.l.l.l.,l.,l.,Mr. Hume
l.l.,l.l. was satisfied that he department was more open to reduction than that of parliamentary printing, as well as stationery. Early in the next session he meant to show, from incontrovertible evidence, that the charge of stationery was absolutely usurious. Both the printing and the stationery expenses might be easily reduced at least 50 per cent. The printing of the 58th volume of their Journals cost the country 3,946l.l.,l.l.Mr. Hume
 adverted to the great difference in the value of money at the present period, and at the period when the salaries of the public officers in the Treasury were fixed. He wished to know whether that consideration entered into the plan of revision which the hon. gentleman had alluded to.Sir E. Knatchbull
corpus delicti;corpus delictil.l.l.1182 said, that he had been intrusted with a petition from an individual who considered himself aggrieved by the Association of which the House had recently heard so much. It was from a person of the name of King, against whom an indictment had been preferred by this Constitutional Association, supported before the grand jury by the evidence of only one witness, Horatio Orton. Indignant at the attempt that had thus been made to render him amenable to the laws, when the indictment was thrown out, Mr. King published his case in the newspapers. This step had induced Mr. Orton to make an affidavit, which the petitioner asserted contained direct falsehoods. He did not know that in a legal point of view, the offence was of that extent; but assuredly in a moral sense Orton had been guilty, if the petitioner were believed, of the crime of perjury. It was said that Orton had inquired of King who was the publisher of the pamphlet on which the prosecution was founded, when he must have known at the time that it was Dolby, because an indictment was preferred against Dolby on the 17th May, and his name as the publisher was on the back of the first part of the work, bought by Orton on 16th May. It seemed quite clear that some person or persons had suborned Orton to what appeared to the petitioner very like perjury. One point was undeniable, viz. that King had committed no crime whatever. When it was inquired for, he had not the objectionable publication in his possession. This was on the 16th of May; consequently, the individual sent out by the Association endeavoured to entrap an innocent man in the commission of a crime. The object of the petitioner was, that some means might be devised by which he should be able to get at the real names of the committee which induced Orton to go to the shop of Mr. King. The case was one of a most atrocious nature; it was an attempt to ruin an industrious man by bringing him into a court of justice for a work of which He was not only not the publisher, but which he had not even in his shop. The individuals forming this association seemed resolved to make crimes if they could not find them ready Made to their hands. The Society for the Suppression of Vice
corpus delicti;corpus delictil.l.l.1182Mr. Hobhouse
 sate, he had no objection to the production of the Minutes. As to the Report it was drawn up in the noble lord's absence, no doubt; but, from the long sitting of the committee, his return could not conveniently be waited for. The committee did not think it necessary to go into the extent of investigation required by the noble lord; but in the report now presented, suggestions were contained, which, if acted upon, would, he had no doubt, remedy all the evils complained of by the petitioners.Lord Binning
 said, that, having withdrawn from the committee, he felt it his duty to state the reason which had induced him to do so. The House would recollect that a committee had sat in 1819, to consider the state of the Scotch burghs. Ministers, who wished to keep abuses from the public eye, found that committee about to do rather too much; and when, in 1820, the same subject was again brought forward, they declined renewing the committee of 1819, and substituted one chiefly composed of their own official friends. He did not mean to say that the gentlemen so appointed had not acted conscientiously; but he must say that he found them on all occasions the protectors of abuses.Sir. R. Fergusson
 declared that it was quite delightful to hear on this occasion the language which was held by the gentlemen opposite. The compliment paid by the chairman of the agricultural committee to the hon. member for Aberdeen, must be highly gratifying to him. For himself, he would say that since he first came into parliament, he did not remember any gentleman to whom the country was so much indebted as to his hon. friend (Mr. Hume), whose exertions had been as important as they were unremitting.Mr. Coke
 said, it was impossible that immediate relief could be given to the agriculturists, unless the House was prepared to enact that corn should be raised at once to a certain price. He really believed that labourers in general were much better paid when wheat was at a higher price than they were at present. The great object, however, was to keep prices as much as possible on a level, and to prevent fluctuations. The repeal of this tax would be received by the agriculturists as a boon.Mr. Cripps
1187 said, he was one of these who had used their best endeavours to enforce retrenchment and economy upon ministers during the late grants, but un-
1187Mr. Baring
 supported the motion, and urged the importance of relieving the landed interest.Sir W. W. Wynn
l. said, that the present question involved not only the repeal of 500,000l.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 thought the chancellor of the exchequer had no right to call upon the country gentlemen to support him in this tax, especially as he had broken the promise of economy which he had made to them at the time that he imposed it.Mr. Maberly
1183 on presenting the Report of the Committee on the state of the Scotch Burghs, which he was called upon to do as the chairman of that committee, took occasion to observe, that he dissented from the Report, and disapproved of the conduct of the committee, because they had not sufficiently investigated the subject. It was due to himself, ay well as to other members of the committee who concurred with him in sentiment, to make this declaration. This Report was drawn up by others in his unavoidable absence from town, although upon his departure he promised to have a report prepared. He found fault, indeed, not so much with what the committee had done as with what
1183Lord A. Hamilton,
 thought this tax the most oppressive and inexpedient that the ingenuity of man ever suggested; always excepting the tax on salt.Mr. Davenport
 said, that this was a tax' that fell unequally in all cases, and most unequally upon those lands which were least able to bear it. He was asked to give a substitute for it, supposing it to be repealed. This he was not bound to give; and he could assure ministers that the only substitute which they should have for it with his consent should be parsimony and economy.Mr. Brougham
 concurred in what had fallen from lord A. Hamilton, and contended, that the usual courtesy of a committee towards its chairman had been violated.Mr. Abercromby
 of Wiltshire, considered the tax to be an impost on the implements of labour, and most unjustand oppressive. He wondered how those could support such a tax who were in favour of cheap bread and opposed to a Corn bill. Measures must be taken for the relief of the agricultural interest: He hoped the honesty of the House would always make them anxious to keep faith with the public creditor; but there was a vulgar adage—" We cannot rob a naked man of a shirt."Mr. Benett,
11861185 in rising to call the attention of the House to this important subject, said, that the object which he had in view was one most material to the interests of Agriculture. The tax had always been unjust in principle, and oppressive in practice. Formerly, he had felt it to be his duty to propose some substitute to supply the deficiency which the repeal of the tax in question would occasion in the revenue. But things were now in a different state. The right hon. gentleman had since had abundant opportunities of obviating the evil. Not only must the right hon. gentleman have been aware of the extent of the existing agricultural distress, but he must have well known what had passed in the committee appointed to investigate the causes of that agricultural distress which every one acknowledged to be unprecedented in extent. The result of the inquiries of that committee had. been, that although there existed a variety of opinions in it on other parts of the subject, on that of the agricultural distress, and of the necessity of affording speedy relief to that distress, the committee came to an unanimous resolution, that the distress of the country was fully proved. With such a resolution, what would be the impression on the country if it should turn out that parliament throughout the whole session had abstained from taking a single earthly step to afford the relief acknowledged to be indispensable. To the vote of that night, therefore, the country would look, that they might estimate what they might expect from parliament; for, it: Was evident, that if the report of the committee were to be made in the present session, it was too late to found any measure upon it. He put it, therefore, to the House, what answer they would make to their constituents, if they were asked why they did not adopt the proposition which he was about to submit to them? Would it be becoming in them to say, that because they found they could not give all, they therefore refused to give any thing? It was with him a matter of no doubt, that there never could be any prosperity in this country, while agriculture remained in a distressed state. The chancellor of the exchequer had, during the last two months, been repeatedly intreated to reconsider his estimates. He (My. C.) was persuaded that if the session were now to recommence, the majority would declare that those estimates ought to be reduced.
11861185Mr. Curwen,
 said, that the complaint of his noble friend, that he had not been treated with common courtesy, was well-founded. The eight allegations contained in the complaint of the petitioners had all been affirmed, yet they were all lightly treated by the committee. After the labours of three years, no practical benefit would result from them, because a majority of the committee had set themselves against every attempt at, amelioration.Mr. Hume
1188 supported the motion, not from a feeling that it would afford relief, but because it was an unjust tax, and operated rated more severely upon the holders of bad than of good lands. He had supported? ministers during the war, for the had been said by ministersw, "Only
1188Mr. W. Burrell
 opposed the tax, on the ground that it was oppressive and unjust.Sir C. Burrell
 denied that the committee had failed to discharge their duty. If the measures they recommended were carried into effect, every practical inconvenience would, he was satisfied, be removed.Mr. K. Douglas
l.d.s.1191 said, that if all the propositions made by gentlemen opposite were acceded to, the financial system of the country would be completely broken down. He was fully aware of the difficulties under which the agricultural interest was labouring, and could he believe that the repeal of this tax would
l.d.s.1191Mr. Huskisson
1190 said, that a more unsatisfactory statement he had never heard from any minister. That the public credit ought to be supported, was a proposition which no one denied; but the question was as to the best means of supporting
1190Mr. Scarlett
 said, that if ever there was an unjust and oppressive tax, it was the present. He most strongly recommended the repeal. It was a coarse but true saying, that "you could not have more of a cat than its skin;" and the agriculturists were, in fact, unable to pay the tax. If we could not increase our means, we must diminish our expenditure. He thought the hon. member for Aberdeen, by his indefatigable industry and valuable exertions, had done great service to the country.Mr. Gooch
l.l.1189 expressed his great satisfaction at the speech of the hon. gentleman who had spoken last. He would go still further, and call on the whole country to stop the career of taxation. He put it to his hon. friend the member for Taunton, whether for the sake of increasing the fictitious value of stock, the grinding taxation which encroached on the capital that formed the foundation of credit, ought to be endured? He put it to his powerful mind, whether it would not be better to leave in the pockets of the people what increased and fructified with them, than, by taking all away, to ruin them and annihilate the revenue? There were other taxes which ought at the same time to be taken off from the manufacturing interests. The noble lord here begged leave to read, in 1821, an extract from the royal speech in 1721, recommending the taking off taxes from the raw material. He agreed that agriculture was the bases but what was the value of the base, if the shaft of manufactures and the capital of commerce were destroyed? Would they bring this happy land, where manufactures and commerce had spread all the arts, refinements, and elegancies of life, and scattered over the face of the country, rich and populous cities, into the condition of agricultural Poland? Other taxes ought to be repealed as Well as the tax on horses, but especially the tax-oft foreign wool. The four million sinking fund might as well be employed in raising the price of land, as the fictitious; value of stock. If this motion should be successful he would move an instruction to the committee to receive a clause for re-
l.l.1189Lord Milton
 hoped it was not proposed to revive any of the obnoxious old law with respect to whipping for Vagrancy, adding, that it was apprehended this bill would interfere with the 59th of the late king, with respect to the removal of paupers to their respective parishes.Mr. Courtenay
 said, that the abuses in the collection of the Irish revenue were of so extensive a nature, that they could only be reached by a parliamentary commission. It was a melancholy fact, that the receipts of the exchequer had diminished in the exact proportion as the burthens of the people had been increased. One of the effects of this excessive taxation was, to increase an evil under which Ireland had long laboured—he alluded to the absence of its gentry. He strongly recommended the adoption of the bill, in the full confidence that the commission would be composed of such persons as would give weight to their appointment, and appreciate the great responsibility of the trust reposed in them.Sir J. Newport
 entirely agreed in the importance of the measure, and in the necessity of appointing such individuals to fill the commission, as would discharge their duty with zeal, integrity, and fearless independence.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, that much depended upon the selection of the persons appointed as commissioners. He feared that some new burthen must be imposed upon the country to provide salaries for these commissioners, but he trusted that no member of parliament, unless he already held an official situation, would be appointed. The influence of places and situations of emolument; in that House was already much too extensive, and they ought to be extremely cautious in creating new offices for members of their own body.Mr. Calcraft
1194 proposed the clause for appointing the commission, and enacting that it should be executed by the following persons:—the right hon. T. Wallace, Mr. Frankland Lewis, colonel Herries, Mr. W. J. Lushington, and Mr. J. Berens. He did not mean to propose any specific remuneration at present to the commissioners, but merely to assign a sum for their expenditure. He thought it, however, right to state, that Mr. Wallace, and colonel
1194The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 was not aware why five, commissioners were necessary; but of this he was sure, that if the vice-president off the Board of Trade (Mr. Wallace), had any business to perform in his office here he could be ill spared for the duty of the commission in Ireland. Colonel Herries was in the same predicament: bow could, he be spared, while he held the office of auditor of the civil list? But he principally rose to object to the appointment, of any member to this commission, unless; he stood pledged not to receive any salary. He bad the highest opinion of the ability, and integrity of his hon. friend near him, (Mr. F. Lewis); but he must nevertheless say, that this office of commissioner, with a salary attached, to it, would be looked, upon as nothing less than a bribe, held out by government for the parliamentary support of the individual.Mr. Hume
1195 begged permission to say that his humble efforts had ever been, and would still continue to be, at the; public service. He had never shrunk from giving them on every occasion, unostentatiously and disinterestedly to the public, whenever they were thought acceptable. Wherever and whenever he was thought to be of any use in promoting the public service, the country might always have his feeble efforts in any situation, and in any manner, in which they were thought worthy of acceptance; and he might add, that he should be always found just as willing as any hon. member who heard him, to render his services, such as they were, gratuitously. But, waving the, individual question for a moment, he would ask his hon. friends near him, whether they were prepared to advocate the, general principle of gratuitous service; for, unless they were, he could not suffer himself to be selected as an individual exception; and he here begged to be understood as speaking with reference to the general principle. Was it for a moment to be assumed and given out to the world, that, if a man faithfully discharged important duties, and received a fair, remuneration for his labours, his opinions must be considered as so warped by that recompense, that they ought to be looked upon as formed under an under an undue influence Rather than suffer his own, opinions to be so warped, he would be swallowed up by
1195Mr. F. Lewis
1196 said, that he bad declined any emolument as a commissioner, on the
1196Mr. Wallace
1197 said, that the right hon. gentleman had talked with solemnity of the duty he was about to undertake, and the obloquy which he might have to in-cur in the performance of that duty, as if he were about to enter an enemy's country, instead of undertaking, in fine weather, an agreeable sail in a steam packet, to the most hospitable country on the face of the earth. The right hon. member, however, disclaimed taking any merit to himself for not requiring an additional salary; that was so far well, for he had already a salary from the public as vice-president of the board of trade. This, office he always thought had some duties attached to it; but now it seemed there were no duties attached to it of any importance, as the performance of them did not make it necessary that the right hon. gentleman should be resident in this country. Now, as to his hon. friend (Mr. F. Lewis), he would say a few words. His hon. friend had stated, that the enjoyment of office should not have that effect upon him which it was well known practically to have on all others. He said, he would perform its duties in a fearless and independent manner; but could he do so, and hope to meet with the approbation of his friends opposite? There was an instance lately of the exertion of such independence, and the consequence of it, in a vote for the repeal of the Malt tax. If he could allow of any exception to the principle, it could not occur in an instance more favourable than that of the appointment of his hon. friend. He knew him, to be an able, industrious, and independent roan; but be had never seen him in office.
1197Mr. Calcraft
 said, he could appeal to many hon. members who knew that the vice-president of the board of trade had very extensive, important, and difficult duties to perform. Although it was true that by an arrangement between himself and his right hon. friend the duties of the office might be facilitated in his absence, by throwing more than the usual share of business on himself, who remained; yet it did not follow that those duties could ordinarily be performed by one person. With respect to the duties to be discharged under this bill, they were of a description which most materially affected the trade and commerce of this country. He would maintain that it was quite impossible for the trade and commerce of England and Ireland not to derive great advantage from the due exertion of the powers which the commissioners would be invested with. With respect to his hon. friend opposite (Mr. F. Lewis), he thought that the way in which he had expressed himself, showed incontestably that he was actuated by the most honourable feeling. The commissioners, he was satisfied, were about to undertake labours of no ordinary nature; and in performing those labours, in cleansing the Augean stable which it was their duty to put to rights, the only pleasure which his hon. friends could receive from the task, was in the consciousness of the advantages derivable from their exertions to the public.Mr. Robinson
1198 was of opinion that a member of that House ought not to be selected to fill an office of this kind. He should oppose the appointment of his hon. friend, solely on account of the principle which such an appointment tended to overturn. The question did not merely apply to them as members of that House; it was one which also concerned their constituents and 'the public in general, They had long acknowledged a wise principle in matters of this description; and that principle they ought to follow. To show the extreme sensibility with which appointments of this nature were viewed in that House, he need only refer to the example of his learned friend (Mr. Brougham), who offered, if he were constituted a commissioner under the educa-
1198Lord A. Hamilton
 rose for the purpose setting his noble friend right. His noble friend had stated truly, that he (Mr. B.) had offered to act as a commissioner under that commission; but he did so on the express condition of holding the situation without any salary. With respect to his having declared that he would, if he were appointed, retire from parliament, his noble friend was not equally correct. He did not state that he would leave parliament; what he said was, that should it be necessary for him to relinquish his seat in that House, in order to perform the duties of a commissioner, he wished, even in that case, to have the refusal of the situation. He did not say that he had made up his mind to retire from parliament. He would now state his reasons for being adverse to the appointment of his hon. friend. Certainly, no man could be better adapted for the office, from his habits, talents, and integrity, than his hon. friend. Looking, then, at the principle alone, he would say that this appointment went, not directly, but indirectly, to increase the influence of the Crown. It proceeded in a manner that went almost substantively to increase that influence. He admitted that his hon. friend could not be so influenced; but they were proceeding on a broad principle; and although his hon. friend would act as became an independent man, yet there were others who might be influenced under similar circumstances.Mr. Brougham
 stated that heal ways object-to the extension of the influence or the Crown, but he did not think this a case which involved that principle; and argued, that as the situation was not, removeable at the pleasure of the Crown, but only to be terminated by the voice of the House, he felt it his duty to for the appointment.Mr. Grenfell
 contended, that, ever there was a case when parliament ought to appoint a commissioner from its own body, this was one. The practice was one handed down from bur ancestors, and as to the hon. member, he was preeminently qualified for the appointment.Dr. Phillimore
 said, he would vote against the appointment of his hon. friend, on the mere ground of principle unconnected with any personal consideration.Mr. Abercromby
1199 said, that much time had been; Wasted in panegyrics on his hon.
1199Mr. Creevey
 contended, that it was impossible but that the influence of the Crown must be increased, not only by the nomination to any place, but by the expectation, to which the knowledge that the power of making such a nomination existed, must necessarily give birth. On every account it was highly desirable to take care, that if the influence of the Crown in that House could not be diminished, at feast it should not be increased.Mr. W. Smith
 said, that if the appointment were to a permanent office, or if the Crown could remove at pleasure, he should certainly object to the nomination of a member of that House; but as that was not the case, and as it appeared to him to be highly desirable that there should be in the bosom of the House individuals capable, from personal observation, of explaining the nature of the proceedings to which the commission would resort in their inquiries, he saw no objection to the appointment.Sir J. Newport
 was convinced that three commissioners would be quite sufficient.Mr. Maberly
 contended, that commissions for the reform of abuses, would themselves become the greatest abuses, if ministers were allowed to appoint the commissioners. By a clause in the bill, any vacancies which might occur in the commission were to be filled up not by parliament, but by the Crown. Our ancestors had in vain opposed the influence of the Crown in that House, if such a proposition were acceded to.Mr. Denman
 was quite aware of the importance of the measure, but objected to any increase of the influence of the Crown in that House.Mr. Hutchinson
l. in moving that 20,000l.Mr. Grant,
 admitted that the object for which the schools alluded to had been established, had completely failed.Mr. Grant
l.l.l.l.;l.l.;1201 said, he was happy to have the testimony of the right hon. secretary as to the impolicy of the grants for the
l.l.l.l.;l.l.;1201Mr. Hume
1193l. replied in the negative to the first observation of the hon. member, expressing his decided disapprobation of a practice which too often subjected paupers to harsh treatment for mere destitution. The main object of this bill was to prevent the removal of vagrants, which was calculated to have cost the country for some time back no less than 100,0001193l.Mr. Chetwynd
 said, that whatever objection he might entertain to the repeal of this or of any other tax at a period of such pressing necessity, still he felt that he was bound in duty to give up his own sentiments in deference to what he believed to be the decided opinion of the House. After the discussion and division which took place on a former evening, he had endeavoured to learn the sentiments of those who were most deeply interested in this measure; and he had no doubt, from what he had heard, that the sense of the country was in favour of the repeal. This being the case, he would not attempt to set up his individual opinion against a general feeling. He sincerely hoped that the measure would produce all those beneficial results which the hon. mover anticipated from it; and if it did, he should not regret having given up the tax, although he felt at present that they were making a very great sacrifice to the general interests of the country by so doing.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
1203 said, he had no hesitation in avowing, that if he had been present on a former night, he would have stated the strong objections which he felt to the repeal of this tax. But, after what had occurred, looking to the amount of the tax, and taking into consideration the extreme depreciation of the agricultural interest, he conceived that he was called on to withdraw his opposition. It was a measure of sympathy, and would not, he was afraid, be attended with such beneficial results as were expected. The House having expressed its opinion on this
1203The Marquis of Londonderry
l. expressed a hope, that after the repeal of this tax, the agriculturists would not turn round to claim other concessions, and to say that nothing had been given up to them. Hon. members who supported this repeal ought to have shown their disposition to relieve the general distress of the country, by supporting the various propositions of the hon. member for Aberdeen, for reducing the establishments. It was only by economy and retrenchment, that that distress could be relieved. The chancellor of the exchequer had brought his defeat upon himself, by boasting of the state of the finances. It was his holding out the idea of a real sinking fund of 4,000,000l.Mr. Baring
1204 said, he did not think himself liable to the charge of inconsistency which had been made against those who voted for the estimates and not for the tax. The hon. member for Aberdeen made his propositions to the House founded upon his own statements, which were contradicted by ministers. Now here were two parties whose statements were opposed to each other; and he (Mr. W.) and his friends had been in the habit of giving their confidence to ministers. This he
1204Mr. S. Wortley
 felt himself compelled to dissent from the tone of congratulation, on this event, which seemed to be so general in the House. He must say, that he regretted the repeal of the tax, because he was persuaded that it ought to be the object of all the interests in the country to maintain the public credit. The interest, neither of the one class nor of the other, would, in his opinion, be consulted, by a measure tending, as this certainly did, in some degree, to impair the public credit.Mr. Peel
l.l. said, that this sum of 2,500l.l.The Marquis of Londonderry
l. objected to the payment of the arrears, though he was willing to vote for the grant of 6,000l.Mr. Becher
 said, that his hon. friend did not propose to add to the pension list, but declared, that as a guardian of the public interests, he could not further burthen the consolidated fund. He left the Crown to do as it pleased; but he would not farther oppress the country.Mr. Bernal
1209l. said, that the grant of 2,5001209l.Mr. Calcraft
1210 said, that in this case, as in all others in which the younger branches of the royal family were concerned, it was impossible to exclude from consideration those laws by which parliament restricted their marriages, and to forget that by them they had greatly augmented the expense of maintaining them, in ad-
1210Mr. Maxwell
 then proposed another amendment, by leaving out from the words, "5th day of April 1818," and inserting "1821" instead thereof.Mr. Bernal
1211 thought that the only objection which deserved the name of an argument, arose from its being imputed to him that he had treated this subject merely as a question of arrears—a view of it which he bad always disclaimed. From the first moment when the subject was brought under notice, he had denied that it was a question of arrears, but stated that it was a case in which parliament was to decide what it was fit and proper to give. Parliament, however, had always been in the habit of exercising an equitable discretion with respect to the
1211The Marquis of Londonderry
 said, he could not subscribe to the argument, that a member of the royal family would be entitled to claim the arrears of a grant which had been refused for 20 years. If the Queen had chosen to retire into a private station, and to remain there for 10 or 20 years, he, for one, would not have consented to let her have the benefit of any grant which was intended for the support of her dignity in public life. Upon the same principle, if the duke of Clarence had refused to maintain the dignity of his station, he could not permit him to receive arrears of a grant which was made to enable him to do so.Mr. Williams
 said, his royal highness had been anxious in 1818 to receive the money voted, but he was advised not to do so, by those who knew more of such matters than himself. If the House granted the arrears, the country would pay less than it would otherwise have done, by all the interest.Sir J. Graham
l.l.l. thought it fit the country should know, that although ministers had promised to provide her majesty with a house, with carriages, and with a service of plate, yet when she was paid the first instalment of the grant voted by parliament, 4,000l.l.l.Mr. Alderman Wood
l. would vote for the 6,000l.Mr. Ricardo
 thought it would be far better openly to take away from the Crown the power of granting pensions, than by a side-wind to force claimants upon it. He must oppose the amendment.Mr. Ellice
 observed, that the measures proposed in parliament with respect to the members of the royal family were generally of an unhappy character; but he knew of no instance in which less judgment had been shown than in the present. He had abstained from voting on many proposals for retrenchment made in the course of the session, because they turned mostly on mere matters of fact, on which he was not competent to decide, and on which, if he decided erroneously, he might do great injustice. But as this was a retrospective measure, he should not hesitate to vote for the amendment.Mr. Abercromby
l. said, that as he was disposed to agree to, the vote for 6,000l.Mr. Abercromby
 said, he should like to know what had been done with the residue of the late king's money, as he saw no reason, if the duke of Clarence were in debt, that his debts should not be paid out of that fund.Mr. Curwen
 said, that every gentleman in the country was obliged to give up a part of his income, and it was not too much to ask the royal family to share in the burthens of the country. He thought the whole proceeding irregular; as it ought to have been preceded by a message from the Crown.Mr. Curwen
1202 rose to move the reading of the Order of the Day for going into a Committee on this Bill. He was happy to inform the House, that ministers did not intend to give any further opposition to the bill. He hoped the discussions which had taken place would show to ministers the necessity of coming
1202Mr. Curwen
l.l.l. said, that time had already made an additional grant for the duke of Clarence. Could any gentleman deny that 20,000l.l.l.Mr. Lockhart
 said, he owed a duty to the royal family, but he owed a duty to the country also; and he thought it a more sacred obligation to consult the privations and distresses of the people, than to vote superfluities to any branch of the royal family.Mr. J. Martin
l. saw no reason whatever, in the present state of the country, for such a grant. He would not only oppose the arrears, but the 6,000l.Mr. Monck
 observed, that in the late discussions on the expenditure of the country, it was stated, in objection to motions for retrenchment, that ministers had brought, down their estimates as low as they could: he wished therefore to know if it was intended to substitute for the repealed tax any newimpost; as, if this were the case, it would only he the removal of a burden from one part of the people to put it on the shoulders of others.Mr. Birch
 said, he would not press his amendment in the present stage. The report was brought up and read.Mr. Hume
l.l.s.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.:l.l.1206l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.; said, that his object was, to have this provision divided into two parts; first, the yearly allowance proposed to be made of 6,000l.l.s.l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.:l.l.1206l.l.l.l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.;Mr. Hume
l.l.l., then moved, to leave out "6,000l.l.l.,Mr. Hume
 said, the vote came in a crooked, underhand, and unparliamentary manner. It ought to have been brought before the House by a message from the Crown. It was by no means a matter of course to revive an old grant of a former session. Parliament had already provided for the royal family in a liberal and elegant manner.Mr. P. Moore
l, said, that the amendment went to lessen, by 2,500l,Mr. Creevey
 said, that in his opinion the duke of Clarence ought not to receive the arrears, though he ought injuturo to be placed on the same footing with his brothers. He would, however, object to the grant, because there was no message from the Crown on the subject. He had searched the Journals, and could find no trace of any proceeding on the subject: whatever passed then must have passed in the committee. It was, he conceived, impossible for the House to act upon any thing that might have taken place in a former parliament, save as far as the proceedings appeared upon the face of the Journals.Mr. Denman
l.l.l.1213 thought that the two cases, of her majesty when princess of Wales, and the duchess of Cumberland, were no precedents at all. The House was now called upon to act on the recommendation contained in a resolution of a former parliament. He could not conceive why the noble marquis had chosen to introduce the name of the Queen into this debate, unless for the purpose of forming a splendid contrast. If the House had acted towards her majesty as it was now proposed to act with respect to the duke
l.l.l.1213Mr. Denman
l.l. said, that the learned gentleman was mistaken with respect to what had appeared on the face of the Journals. The report was brought up, and after some discussion agreed to. There was another point which it was necessary for him to set right, in order that he might convince the House that he was not guilty of any negligence or breach of his duty, in suffering an innovation on the established rules of parliament. The state of the proceeding was this—a message came down from the Crown, the House said that they would take it into consideration, they did so, a resolution was agreed to, but no bill was brought in. In a subsequent parliament, that resolution was acted on without a fresh message from the Crown, but still at its recommendation. He saw nothing irregular in that course of proceeding, nor was it unprecedented. In 1814, the allowance granted to the princess of Wales, was reduced from 50 to 35,000l.l.The Speaker
1207 said, he would support the grant upon this principle —that he was personally indebted to his royal highness for almost every thing he possessed. He had lived with his royal highness in peace and in war. Since the time of Charles 2nd, there was none of the royal family
1207Sir Isaac Coffin
 observed, that if some of the hon. gentlemen who sat round his hon. colleague, and who allowed that the hon. member for Aberdeen had done a deal or good by his persevering investigations, had helped him to do more good, if, instead of merely panegyrising that hon. member at the close of the session, they had aided him by their votes in its progress—they might so have reduced the public expenditure as to give his hon. friend, the member for Taunton, no ground for saying that it was imprudent to deduct nearly half a million from the public revenue. He, however, by no means argeed with his hon. friend, that the repeal was an imprudent measure; for he was persuaded, that, the half million might easily be made up by economy. He was persuaded, that to a large portion of the agriculturists the repeal of this tax would be a very great boon. The way in which the repeal had been carried, would be an argument, on-the introduction of any future measure of partial reform, to show that the landed interest in that House did not peculiarly require to be reinforced. He appealed to the justice of the House, therefore, to show, in another session the same protection to the manufacturing that they had afforded to the landed interest. That the country would be grateful for this proceeding, on the part of the House, he was sure; but their gratitude ought to be shown to his hon. friend, the member for Cumberland, and those who supported the abolition, and not to those who, if they could, would have continued the tax.Lord Milton
1212 said, he could not consider the question in any other light than as a grant of arrears, and as such he felt the strongest objection to it. He was also of opinion that the proceedings in this case had not been so regular as they ought to have been. The House at present was without any knowledge of the wishes of the Crown on this subject. They could not with propriety be referred back to a
1212Lord Milton
 would agree in the vote which would raise the income of the duke of Clarence to a level with that of his royal brothers, but he would not agree permanently to any one of them, as he thought, within a few months, they must come under the consideration of parliament, from the change in the value of the currency.Lord Milton
 doubted the expediency of European interference. It was admitted that great exertions had been made by the governors in India to put down the dreadful practice in question. One effect of those exertions, however, had been to invite breaches of the native law; and it was a melancholy fact, that in consequence of that circumstance the interference of the Indian governors had led to an increase of the number of victims. If any mode were to be adopted for confining the natives to the letter of their own laws, it could be carried into effect only by causing a European officer to superintend those dreadful executions, which would be to give a sanction to them on our part. He therefore doubted the policy of any direct interference. It was a strong fact, that the practice was not at present allowed either in Madras or Calcutta; the consequence of which was, that the destined victims were taken to be sacrificed out of the boundaries of those towns. He was persuaded that the gradual dissemination of knowledge among the natives was more calculated to produce a beneficial effect on this subject than any forcible interference on our part.Mr. Bathurst
12271226122512241223 said, that his object, in making the present motion, was, to support the cause of liberty all over Europe—that liberty which was seriously threatened by the conduct of the allied sovereigns. Indeed, he thought that the present state of Europe was most awful. He would refer back, but not in detail, to those events which had, in his view of the subject, been carried on for years, for the purpose of subverting liberty, and which had produced that confusion and dismay which now existed in many parts of the continent. If the allied sovereigns pursued the conduct lately pursued by them, and if the noble marquis opposite went on supporting them as he had done, instead of opposing their proceedings, then he would say that the noble marquis and his colleagues, were
12271226122512241223Mr. Hutchinson
 hoped the horn gentleman would not consider him wanting in respect, if he declined to follow him in his general attack upon the foreign and domestic policy of the government of this country for the last thirty years. He should consider the motion and the statement which accompanied it, as a protest against the policy pursued by the government in its domestic and foreign relations. With respect to himself, the hon. gentleman attributed to him a station of more importance in those transactions than properly belonged to him. He for a great part of the period which the views of the hon. gentleman embraced was not in a station which could enable him to influence the policy of the country. It certainly might be a satisfaction to the hon. gentleman to put upon record his protest, but more he could not do, because it was utterly impossible for the House to come to any conclusion upon the various topics touched on. The hon. gentleman ascribed to the government something like a disposition to encourage tyranny. He would only say, that whilst he considered the policy of government in a very different point of view from the hon. gentleman, he was yet as sincere a friend to rational liberty as the hon. gentleman or any other man. That House were the natural guardians of the liberties of England, not the regulators of the policy or conduct of other countries. However anxious this country might be to see the principles of liberty diffused, they surely could not wish to see the government take up every state paper issued by other governments to censure and disapprove of it. He protested against the mode of review adopted by the hon. member; and as the hon. member had protested against the system of government in this country, the House could not do better than leave the subject with protest against protest.The Marquis of Londonderry
12301229 said, he could not see the grounds on which any one of the propositions contained in this bill ought to meet with the approbation of the House. Fie was of opinion, that the evils said to result from the Poor-laws were greatly exaggerated. Being a friend to the principle of those laws, he was necessarily a friend to an unrestricted and compulsory
12301229Mr. Calcraft
l., agreed in the great objects of the bill before the House, but regretted that he could not support its provisions. The present system, if continued, would in time destroy the foundations of our national prosperity. He traced the increase of the poor-rates from the year 1748, when they amounted only to 690,000l.,Mr. F. Lewis
1222 observed, that whatever difference of opinion there might exist on other points of this interesting subject, there were two on which all must agree—first, that it would be in the highest degree gratifying to the feelings of the House, if the inhuman practice in question could be completely put down; secondly, that it would be extremely inexpedient that any attempt should be made to put it down by coercion. It was with a reference to both those considerations that parliament ought to act; and hon. gentlemen ought especially to bear in mind, that of all the exercises of human authority and discretion, the most delicate and difficult was such an interference on the part of a superior power with an inferior, as, while on the one hand it should be effectual, on the other hand it should be divested of that harshness of character which too frequently belonged even to the appearance of control. He apprehended that the effect of any manifestation of a direct interference of authority, would be not so much to stimulate a government which evidently required no stimulus, as to alarm the natives, and, perhaps, even to render necessary
1222Mr. Canning
122012191218 rose to move for Copies or Extracts of all Communications from India, respecting the Burning of Females on the Funeral Piles of their Husbands. In introducing this question, he disclaimed all intention of casting reproach upon any body; for he was aware that a feeling of delicacy upon the superstition of the natives alone restrained the British authori-
122012191218Mr. Fowell Buxton
 denied that the poor had been represented as a demoralised people. The argument was, that the existing laws had a tendency to make them so.Mr. Lockhart
 said, that about the years 1793, 1794, and 1795, several regulations were made on the subject which had a most beneficial effect. The impression on his mind was, that in Benares, where most of the burnings took place, the practice had almost disappeared. If the treatment of asses and mules were a fit subject for parliamentary consideration, surely the treatment of thousands of human beings was so. Many of those unhappy individuals were sacrificed to the interest of the parties connected with them. The heirs of their husbands' property induced the brahmins to persuade them that they would go to heaven by making this sacrifice, in order that that property might come unburdened into their hands. In his opinion, the government of India might counteract the evil by strong regulations, and among others, by charging a thousand or two of rupees for a licence to perform the sacrifice.Mr. Hume
1221 willingly admitted that the government of India had made great efforts to abolish the dreadful practice. Undoubtedly he was an enemy to compulsory proceedings; but provided the prejudices of the Hindoos were not insulted, he was convinced that no people in the world would more willingly listen to instructions in religion and manners. It had been proposed to institute a college at Calcutta, for the purpose of educating and preparing missionaries, to be sent among the Hindoos. Indeed, by proper attention to certain essential points, he had no doubt that the conversion of these people might be effected. It was a mistake to suppose that this practice of immolation was in general voluntary. There were very few cases in which it was so. A reluctant consent was extort-
1221Mr. Wilberforce
1228 said, the noble lord forgot that the manifestoes and documents alluded to were accompanied with arms, with invasion and occupation, with bloodshed and oppression. The allied powers stood condemned, not by documents, but by acts. They showed their love of independence by invading independent nations. They testified their love of liberty by proscribing a whole nation of the damnable heresy of a constitutional creed. They consigned to punishment in
1228Sir. R. Wilson
1247124612451244124312421241 said, that in rising to trouble the house with such observations as appeared to be necessary for the purpose of answering the argument of the noble lord, he was happy to have it in his power to compliment him on the calm, intelligent, and candid manner in. Which he had introduced this subject. He was ready to admit that no individual, connected as the noble lord had been with these transactions could have brought forward a question, of this description with more propriety or moderation. But while he paid his homage to the noble lord on these considerations, he must remark that the' noble lord had chosen rather a late period for making his statement. He now called on the House to come to the conclusion that the conduct of the court of Naples towards its Sicilian subjects was so reprehensible that this country ought to interfere. The noble lord had stated that lie approved of the instructions sent out to sir. W. A' Court: yet it appeared that it was on these very instructions that he founded his complaint. The circumstances to which he alluded took place so far back as 1816; and certainly the conduct of this government was not altered by any thing that had since occurred. Now, if the alterations then made in the constitution of Sicily were of such a description as called for the interference of this country, it was at that period, when the circumstances had recently occurred, that parliament should have been called on to vindicate the national honour. It was a little too late to come to parliament now, in order to criminate the court of Naples on account of circumstances that happened five years ago; more particularly when they were told that Sicily was about to undergo another organization, but of what nature he was ignorant. He certainly did not know the nature of the contemplated change, but it was supposed that it would partake of the character which the noble lord so highly prized, that of a separate and independent nation. It was to possess a government wholly distinguishable from the government of the kingdom of Naples.
1247124612451244124312421241The Marquis of Londonderry
12581257, although he agreed with the general reasoning of the hon. gentleman did not think that the documents moved for could, consistently with the general practice of parliament, be produced. There was no principle more clearly founded in parliamentary wisdom than that it was inexpedient to call for a public document, unless it tended to some practical result. The present case was one of a less pressing nature than that which was under the consideration of the House at the beginning of the session. It was a document of a general character addressed to the whole of Europe, and less requiring parliamentary interposition than the declaration from Troppau, because the latter was immediately directed to this country, and assumed that the government concurred in the principles professed by the allied sovereigns. The House was less provoked to interfere in the present case, either from the nature of the document, or by the circumstances under which it was published. The declaration from Troppau was issued in connexion with a practical course of conduct then acted on with regard to different states. No principle could be more calculated to interrupt national tranquillity than to assume that a paper bearing on its face the evidence that it was nothing more than a general exposition of principles ought to provoke a counter-declaration on the part of this government. If we were to engage in a perpetual conflict of state paper against state paper, the councils of Europe would be resolved into a debating society, and all the links by which different countries were connected would be broken. Almost immediately after the publication of the despatch from Laybach, the government of this country took the opportunity of stating, in opposition to what the allied sovereigns pretended was the law of nations, what it considered the law of nations really to be. The laying of the documents called for upon the table of the House, would detract from the weight that would attend the former declaration of government. He did not scruple to declare his disapprobation of the principles advocated in the documents which had been brought under the notice of the House. He could not recognize the principle that one state was entitled to interfere with another, because
12581257The Marquis of Londonderry
1240maximum123912381237a la Romeo,vox et prœterea nihil.12361235 rose to bring forward his motion respecting the Affairs of Sicily. In presenting himself for the first time to the notice of the House after being so many years a member, he trusted they would readily believe him, when he declared the extreme reluctance he felt on the present occasion. He might have easily found more competent persons to have brought forward this question: he could have put them in possession of all the information which he had upon the subject; but he was not equally aware that he could transfer to them, even humble as it was, that weight and authority which, from particular circumstances, he must be supposed to have acquired in the history of these transactions. Still more impossible would it have been for him to infuse into a stranger, that cordial attachment and affection towards a people, which he cherished in his own bosom for the cooperation they had afforded him, and the benefit which had been reaped from their conduct. He who had had an opportunity of seeing the progressive improvement of Sicily, and had had the mortification of seeing all the best rights and privileges of the people taken away; their prospects blasted, and themselves, after the promises held out to them, placed in a worse situation than they were in before the-British had been among them—he who had seen all these things, must be supposed to feel deeply upon such an occasion. He had no personal vanity to gratify; his sole object was, to complain, that liberty had not been practically granted to a people to whom it was promised—a promise in which he conceived the honour of the country was involved, and the due fulfilment of which was loudly required by the people, though in a manner in no degree inconsistent with the principles or declarations of the parties concurring in the Holy Alliance; The late manifesto of the allied monarchs at Laybach declared their determination not to countenance any form of constitution not legally established. The liberty required
1240maximum123912381237a la Romeo,vox et prœterea nihil.12361235Lord W. Bentinck
12561255 rose, to call the attention of the House to the circular despatch which had lately been issued from the Congress at Laybach. He thought the principles advanced in that paper were dangerous to the liberties of this country as well as the rest of Europe. He was of opinion that this country ought to take some means of letting Europe know that the doctrines advanced in that document were not consonant with those on which the government of this country acted. He believed the strongly expressed disapprobation of that House, with respect to the principles advanced in the despatch from Laybach, would not fail to produce an effect on the Continent. At the breaking up of the Congress of Laybach, a circular despatch was addressed to the different cabinets of Europe, by the ministers of the allied powers who composed the Congress. This despatch, after stating that the allies had assembled at Troppau and Laybach for the purpose of taking certain steps against the proceedings which had occurred at Naples, proceeded to declare the views of the allied sovereigns with respect to any future reforms that might be effected in the government of any state of Europe. He would beg the House to attend to the following passage in the despatch:—"Useful or necessary changes in legislation, and in the administration of states, ought only to emanate from the free will, the intelligent and well-weighed conviction of those whom God had ren-
12561255Mr. Stuart Wortley
125312521251125012491248 said, the complaint alleged against the noble marquis and his colleagues was shortly and simply this—that the British government, in its conduct to Sicily, had deviated from that principle which was laid down in the noble lord's own despatch, and had not performed those obligations which they had voluntarily undertaken to discharge. The noble lord had expatiated upon the delay which had taken place in the bringing forward the present motion. But did the noble mover, did any man in Europe know the pledge which had been given by the British government to preserve the ancient rights and privleges of Sicily, before the papers on the table were printed? He should have thought it impossible that instructions should not have been sent out to the noble lord at the time of the evacuation of Sicily. The House had heard, however, what were the facts. From the noble marquis's despatch, it appeared that there had been some previous communication between the two governments. He talked there "of the king of Naples' assurances." These assurances most have been made in 'answer to some representations on the part of this country. Where were they? Where were the instructions from which those representations must have been drawn up? Where was the note of sir W. A'Court, written in;1814? In 1814, this government had not adopted a dread of every thing like popular rights, a terror of public
125312521251125012491248Sir J. Mackintosh
12601259 observed, that the arguments of the noble lord would tend to contract the privileges of the House. The noble lord said, that it was contrary to the rule of their proceedings to ask for information, unless the member asking was prepared to found some proceeding upon the information when obtained. This reasoning was not only irreconcilable with the practice of parliament, but with common sense. There might be many cases in which it would be impossible to know what course it would be necessary to take until the information was before the House. He did not find fault, however, with the general tendency of the noble lord's observations. He rejoiced to hear the condemnation which the noble lord had passed upon the principles contained in the declarations of the sovereigns. He was no admirer of revolutions as such, but he was an admirer of those who created a system of order out of a system of abuse. He could not admit that a revolution was the greatest of all evils. The greatest of evils was to be a perpetual slave. The production of the papers was not desired, with a view to criminate ministers, but was called for on the ground that they contained principles materially affecting the security of Europe and of this country in particular. Austria, in acting on these principles was now in possession of a larger portion of territory than she could have acquired after a long war. What effect had the protest of this country against the principles of the allies had? The allies had published a paper in which all their former assumptions were
12601259Sir J. Mackintosh
1280quantum meruit;12791278 said, he rose for the purpose of opposing the resolutions. He should, under any circumstances, feel considerable embarrassment in addressing the committee; but under the present circumstances, he hoped the House would grant him that indulgence which the peculiarity of his situation required. Before he proceeded further, he must say that he could not accept the compliments paid to the talents and abilities of the chief baron at the expense of his integrity and honour. What availed it, that a man was complimented on possessing great talents, when it was said in the same breath, that those talents were exerted in exacting, nay, extorting the most insignificant sums in his office? He was sure that the Report of the commissioners was made with the best possible intention. But admitting that, he denied that any legal proceeding could be ground-
1280quantum meruit;12791278Captain O'Grady
 said, that the hon. mover had laid his view of the case before the committee in a very distinct and fair manner; and the hon. member who had last addressed the committee, with feelings which did him great honour, had applied himself to the statement of the case with an anxiety to give all the information which could be given on the subject. But he would state to the committee the great doubt he felt whether they were in a situation to form any distinct opinion respecting the case; whether they were satisfied that there was ground enough to ascertain the course to be taken in the prosecution of their purpose; whether there were facts to designate, define, and describe the nature of the charge, and the proper course of inquiry. With his impression of the subject, and with such legal understanding as he possessed, the facts did not appear to be sufficiently investigated to satisfy the House that all the evidence was before them which would be necessary to justify an ulterior proceeding. He did not see at present how parliament could be delivered of the question in a manner suited to their wisdom, and to the dignified station of the individual implicated. It was impossible to dispose of the question either affirmatively or negatively. Under these circumstances, it occurred to him, that the best mode would be for the chairman to report progress, and that members should take advantage of the interval to consider of the course to be adopted.The Marquis of Londonderry
 said, he acceded willingly to the proposition of the noble lord.Mr. S. Rice
 concurred with the hon. mover, who had done his duty in a manner that reflected great honour on him.Mr. Abercromby
12821281 rose to move for the production of a paper alluded to in the despatch which had been sent from Vienna to this country by lord Stewart, on the 5th of Feb. 1818. This despatch contained the, rea-
12821281Mr. R. Smith
quietus admitted, that if government was inclined to compromise the affair with Austria, there might be some ground for the interference of the House. But that was not the case. He should certainly be deceiving the House if he were to represent the debt due 'by Austria as good as assets to the same amount in the hands of this government. It was true that the money advanced to Austria was advanced in the shape of loans; but in consequence of the struggles in which she had been engaged since the loans were advanced, that power had not hitherto been considered capable of satisfying the claims of this country. Every administration which had existed in this country since, had been of opinion that Austria was unable to pay her debts; although he could prove, if he were not unwilling to trespass on the time of the House, that she had wished to do so. He certainly thought that Austria would stand ill in the eyes of the world, if she denied the debt, until she received a quietusThe Marquis of Londonderry
128512841283 said, that the hon. mover was entitled to the thanks of the country, for agitating this question. A vast sum of money was owing to us from a foreign state. In the present embarrassed state of our finances, when re-
128512841283The Hon. J. W. Ward
, after what had passed, begged to withdraw his motion.Mr. R. Smith
 said, he had great satisfaction in being able to inform the House, that there were funds at the disposal of the Crown, out of which it was the intention of his majesty to provide for the claims of the American loyalists. It was not therefore necessary to press the motion for a committee on those claims.Mr. Courtenay
 observed, that as matters now stood, even a compromise seemed hopeless, as Austria refused all recognition of the loan: no man could draw any other conclusion from the papers, than that the faith of Austria was not to be depended on.Mr. Warre
 supported the motion, contending that the emperor of Austria could have no keeper of his conscience, otherwise he never could have denied the existence of this just debt.Mr. James
 thought that the repeal of the transit duties on foreign linens would be total ruin to Ireland. The counties of Armagh, Cavan and Down would be seriously injured by such a proceeding; but those counties in which grey linen was manufactured would suffer still more.Mr. D. Browne
 concurred fully in the measure proposed by the right hon. member. He thought that a free importation would be productive of the greatest benefit. He hoped ministers would not be deterred by ignorance or clamour from following the course which they had laid down. Many foreign merchants were now deterred from trading with us in consequence of the complication and severity of our navigation laws.Mr. Baring
13101309This is England's commercial prosperity."How it cut its own throat, and said with a smile,And the devil he grinned, for he saw all the while,A pig with vast celerity;Down the river did glide,"With wind and with tide,1308in transitu;130713061305s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.l.1304130313021301 said:—Sir; wherever our navigation laws and colonial policy are the subject of discussion, they are constantly attacked by certain gentlemen, who take every opportunity to preach up the new, but delusive and dangerous doctrines, of free trade, and the abolition of all restrictions upon foreign competition. This course has been pursued on the present occasion. Those who condemn our navigation system, and apply to it the epithets of prohibitory, exclusive, and illiberal, do injustice to its true character. The leading feature of that system is, that all commodities shall be imported into Great Britain, either in a British ship or in a ship belonging to the country of which those commodities are the growth, produce, or manufacture,—a regulation founded on the most perfect justice and reciprocity, because it places the foreign ships of every country on precisely the same footing as British ships in the trade with those countries, and therefore is a principle of which no power can reasonably complain. It is certainly not favourable to the growth of our own foreign commerce, or of that opulence which arises out of it; but while it makes commercial profit a subordinate object, it lays the foundation of naval power, by securing
13101309This is England's commercial prosperity."How it cut its own throat, and said with a smile,And the devil he grinned, for he saw all the while,A pig with vast celerity;Down the river did glide,"With wind and with tide,1308in transitu;130713061305s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.l.1304130313021301Mr. Marryat
 agreed that it would be well if Great Britain removed all restrictive regulations on trade, provided other nations did the same; but until that took place he doubted the expediency of going the full length of the resolutions.Mr. Wilson
 said, that there never was a more unprincipled vote passed by that House: every person of every class entertained but one opinion on the subject. He would divide the House on every stage of the Bill.Mr. Bennet
 said, that the grant was reprobated in every part of the empire.Mr. F. Palmer
 said, that in the opinion of the law officers, the sugars now imported from the East Indies were not clayed sugars. The duty was imposed as a protecting duty, in case clayed sugars should be imported from the East Indies.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
l.l. said, he had not met with any one who had not considered the grant as unconstitutional in its mode, and as a waste of the public money. He would support the grant of 6,000l.l.Sir J. Sebright
 said they were.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 said, the question should be viewed as a whole. If the duties were proposed to be taken off the East India sugars, he should move to repeal all the restrictions on the trade of the West Indies.Mr. Bernal
 objected to the grant, and to the manner in which it was introduced. The claim was founded on a vote of another parliament, made three years ago. He denied the existence of the debt and of the arrears. He was convinced that, in three years time, a question would arise, whether all grants, as well those to the royal family as others, should not be reduced instead of being increased. If the country continued, under the improved state of our currency, to pay its engagements at the same rate as before, they would not act consistently with the declared opinions of that House, nor of policy or justice. He considered the mode of proposing the grant improper, and the claim for arrears unpardonable.Lord A. Hamilton
 was in favour of the proposed bills. He thought the picture drawn by his hon. friend, of our commerce, under such regulations as were now proposed, was too gloomy.Mr. Serjeant Onslow
1300 said, he concurred in the general view taken by the right hon. member. Tie would, however, reserve to a future period his observations upon its details. He was not so wedded to the existing "navigation laws as to oppose any amendment upon them; but he felt that any alteration ought to be matter of serious deliberation. He was aware that there existed among the shipping interest a strong feeling of alarm upon this question. It was true that the shipping interest was of great value, but of late the ship-owners derived no advantage from their ships. The right hon. member was mistaken if he
1300Mr. Sykes
s. asked, whether the additional duty of 5s.Mr. Bright
1312s. said, that the sugars which were brought from the East Indies were to a certain degree refined; but there could be no process for refining sugars adopted in the West Indies, which did not subject them to an additional duty of 51312s.Mr. Bright
 contended against the proposition, that the West-India islands possessed a right to the exclusive monopoly of the English market.Mr. J. Smith
1313 said, that this country was bound to the West India colonies by good faith as well as policy. The West India colonies had the exclusive possession of the British market as matter of right, by a contract of deeds, as Mr. Fox observed in 1782, when the first attack was made upon the colonies, which was better than any contract of words. The colonies had given a valuable consideration for that possession, and they enjoyed it by virtue of acts of parliament, which was all that could be said even of the public creditor, to talk of touching whom was thought so dishonourable. The first attack made on the right of the colonies was in 1782, when lord Beauchamp proposed to allow the prize sugar to be introduced into the British market. That proposition, though it came strongly recommended by peculiar circumstances, was rejected. In 1792, an attack was again made, and now the East Indians, allied to a set of gentlemen whom he did not mean to treat with disrespect, but who were known by the name of "Saints," had renewed the attack upon their joint accounts. The assailants of the colonies talked of free trade, as if, in this country, every thing was not loaded with restrictions. The West Indian colonist was obliged, to sail in British ships, and to buy his lumber at a disadvantageous market; yet a complaint was made because he sought to have the exclusive possession of the British sugar market. But the colonists
1313Mr. Barham
 said, at present the East India sugars were charged with a duty of 10s. per cwt. to which the sugars of the West India colonies were not subjected. The people of England, who were thus compelled to buy their sugar at the worst market, had cause to be discontented rather than the West India planters.Mr. Hume
 said, he was surprised at hearing the opinions delivered by the hon. member. That a gentleman of his great commercial experience should be at this time the advocate of exclusive trade, was, indeed, a matter of no little surprise. He considered the measures proposed by the right hon. gentleman as most salutary; and he felt convinced, that if they were carried into full effect, they would materially improve the commerce of the country, and prevent our being viewed, as we were at present, with jealousy by every country in Europe. He thought that, with our capital, the proposed alterations must give us the advantage over every other country.Mr. Hume
1299129812971296129512941293129212911290 said, he did not mean to
1299129812971296129512941293129212911290Mr. Wallace
 asked, whether the additional sugar duties in the bill were continued for one year only?Mr. W. Smith
 said it was not worth while now, when so little time remained for discussion, to oppose the continuance of the duties, but he hoped the subject would be taken into consideration at an earlier period of the next session.Mr. W. Smith
 said, that in the present instance the commissioners were not appointed by the Crown, nor did they look to the Crown for their reward. As to the hon. gentleman to whom the motion applied, he was eminently qualified for the situation, and his acceptance of it was a favour conferred on the public.The Chancellor of the Exchequer
 supported the amendment. He stated one ground of objection that had not been remarked on before namely, that as the commission was to be hereafter examined by the House, if members were upon that commission, they would, contrary to the spirit of British law, be parties and judges in the cause. With respect to influence, it was an insult on common sense to say it could be resisted by those who enjoyed the sweets of office; such could not be the case until the gentlemen opposite could alter human nature. No one could doubt the infringement of the principle of law, in the case of the hon. member under discussion.Mr. Hobhouse
1316 was willing that, in this instance, the general principle, which directed that members of parliament should not hold their seat, together with offices of emolument, should be departed from. The revenue department of Ireland was said to be an Augean stable. This was not a charge against Ireland, but against the misgovernment of England. The commissioners were going over, not to wage war on clerks, or on obscure individuals but, to attack the magnates of the land the great powers and constituted
1316Mr. S. Rice
1320131913181317 rose, pursuant to notice, to move for the appointment of a commission to examine into the feasibility of Mr. Owen's plan. The hon. member spoke as follows:—It is painful to contemplate nakedness and famine in the midst of plenty—to hear that the shower of May, and the sunshine of July are a curse; to know that those who clothe our fields with luxuriance, and animate the landscape with their flocks, must withdraw their eyes from the smiling face of nature to the bitter perspective of a bankruptcy and a dungeon. When we behold the ignorant stoicism of those who have induced such disorder in practice, and such impiety in theory, like Nero looking with unpitying eye on the sorrows they have caused, we are tempted to exclaim in the words of an amiable French, woman, on tracing the ravages of the modern Brennus in Switzerland,—"Les montagnes furent verdoyantes comme autrefois, les prairies florissantes comme jadis, le cœur d'homme seul pourquoi n'etoit-il qu'un desert?" The calamities which have sprung from corn-laws, inequitable to the consumer and useless to, the agriculturist—from a sacrifice of the present generation by a Vansittart,, to; atone for the folly of a past one under the auspices of a Pitt, have traveled through the labouring classes and the productive
1320131913181317Mr. Maxwell
1322 said, that a proposition similar to the present had formerly been rejected by the House, and he still had great doubt of the propriety of deciding that parliament should charge itself with the responsibility of deciding on the prospect held out to the community by Mr. Owen's plan. The mode in which his hon. friend had referred to the report which had been made to parliament during this session, increased those doubts. For, if the report of the agricultural committee was so unsatisfactory, what would the feelings of the country be, if, after being told that a plan existed for bringing back the golden days of paradise, and that parliament had given into the trick, all the bright colours melted into air? In this free and happy country, any plan of this kind would be sufficiently investigated, without the intervention of parliament. The hon. member had told us that the spade was preferable to the plough, and that we should never be happy until we were all digging; that a cotton manufactory could never be carried on well until there was a Mr. Owen to take care of the morals of the people when they came out Of the mill, so that society would lose its dispersed and independent character, and would be reduced to a system of machinery, which the hon. member would drive out of the world, except as applied to human beings. He protested against the House being the proper body to take upon itself the investigation of abstract principles, or of all new inventions, the success of which so often depended on the zeal of the inventors. He hoped they would not undertake an inquiry which would add one to those fruitless results which were supposed to lower their character in public estimation. There Were large and intelligent bodies which had a direct and lively interest in any plan for the improvement of the administration of the poor; and it was not necessary to a trial of Mr. Owen's plan (if it held out any prospects) that the country should be carved out into parallelograms, in order to put the poor under the management of the exchequer.
1322The Marquis of Londonderry
1324 considered the plan to be the most visionary, and the most impracticable he had ever met with. The praise-worthy exertions of Mr. Owen had made it succeed, on a small scale, with persons under his influence and control, but to attempt it on a general scale would, in his opinion, be utterly useless. That House had not now to learn from Mr. Owen that it was desirable the poor should support themselves by their own industry. He was delighted with the plan, which, according to Mr. Owen,
1324Dr. Lushington
 said, it was not his intention to divide the House upon the question.Mr. Maxwell
1335 said, that in common with the House, he always listened with the greatest pleasure to every speech of his hon. friend, especially, upon that great question of which he was the parent, and which, by his, benevolent and persevering exertions, he had brought to a successful issue. He could assure his hon. friend, that he had heard him with the greater satisfaction, because he observed, that while, his hon. friend endeavoured to rouse the feelings of the House and of foreign powers in the common cause of humanity, he did not omit to remind the House that it was long, before even this moral and Christian nation felt the full objections to the traffic in slaves, and could wind itself up to use the necessary exertions for its abolition. While his hon. friend, therefore, was pressing his majesty's government to make this appeal to foreign powers, he must feel that they could not be at once awakened to that state of moral feeling which we, had ourselves attained only by slow degrees. With regard to the address, it was impossible that the House should not observe that many passages in it conveyed very strong and pointed reproaches upon the conduct of foreign governments. He had no, hesitation in saying, that if he looked to the question merely in a political point of view, and with reference to the state of responsibility in which it was calculated, to place him, he should feel
1335The Marquis of Londonderry
 said, that America had not done enough by passing one act. The making of slave-dealing piracy would not prevent it, unless a sufficient number of cruisers were kept along the coast of Africa, to enforce the penalty.Dr. Lushington
 stated, that it had cost us a million of money to prevail upon Portugal by stipulations not to trade north of the line; yet those stipulations had been violated.Mr. Bernal
 said, that the learned member for Knaresborough had been mistaken in stating, on a former occasion, that slaves were treated better in the East than in. the West Indies, and cited passages from Dr. Buchanan's book in support of his statement: he also animadverted, on the difficulties, thrown in the way of the question itself by the emperor of Russia, who bad given the monopoly of supplying his dominions with sugar to Portugal and Spain, on account of our duties imposed upon foreign linen. He thought the powers favourable to the abolition ought to join in the prohibition of the consumption of Portuguese commodities.Mr. Marryat
 asked whether there was; any thing in the motion which pledged the House to support measures of hostility against those countries who refused to comply with the terms of the motion?Mr. Gurney
13441343s. said, he rose to move for the production of certain papers containing an account of the suspension of Mr. Theodore Hook from his office of treasurer in the Mauritius; and of the sums of money due by him to the government of that colony. It might be in the recollection of the House, that about 17 or 18 months ago, he had put a question to an hon. gentleman opposite respecting the transaction which he had just alluded to. The answer given upon that occasion was, that ministers had received no official information on the subject, but they knew that Mr. Theodore Hook had arrived in this country. He had repeated the question this year; possessing, however, at the time, no information on the subject to which it referred. He had since obtained some information, the nature of which he would state to the House. He had reason to believe that the information was strictly correct. He would not now mention the name of the gentleman from whom he had received his information, but would reserve to himself the privilege of doing so, if he thought fit before the discussion terminated. It appeared from the facts which had been laid before him that on the 15th; of January, 1818, the acting governor of the Mauritius, governor Hall, received a letter from Mr. Allan, one of the confidential clerks of the treasury of the colony, informing him that Mr. Hook had appropriated to himself a part of the allowances for the expenses of his department, by appointing his own coachman to the situation of office-keeper, at a salary of 40 dollars a month, and his cook to another situation with a salary of 1513441343s.Mr. Bennet
 contended, that Mr, Owen's plan included the strict observance of religious duties. He would support the motion for inquiry, without at all pledging himself to the details of the plan.Lord A. Hamilton
1325 said, that he had formed the highest opinion of the zeal, talents, and benevolent disposition of Mr. Owen. He had been unwilling, therefore, to do any thing that might hurt the feelings of that gentleman. Mr. Owen had, however, strongly urged him to attend; and he (Mr. C.) having given his word that he would attend, felt it necessary now to say, that after the most impartial consideration of the subject, he must decide against the motion. First, the general application of the plan, as had been well observed by the noble marquis, would lead to the complete destruction of individuality, and to the amalgamation of the population into masses, which was totally repugnant to the principles of human nature, and above all, to the genius of the people of this country. The inference which was drawn from the excellent management of Mr. Owen's establishment at Lanark, that it would be successful when acted upon on a more xtended scale, was, in his opinion, perfectly fallacious. Individuals must be congregated together upon some known and intelligible principle, It was a known principle which connected tenants with landlords, and workmen with manufacturers. But on what principle thousands of persons could be congregated together in Mr. Owen's establishments, he could not conceive. If a number of individuals should unite together as volunteers, supposing all the diffiulties opposed to such an undertaking by parochial regulations and other circumstances to be overcome, there was nothing to prevent the society, which, as it had commenced in delusion might end in disappointment, from becoming the seat of the worst of passions. He wished also to state, and he hoped he might do
1325Mr. Canning
1321 said, that the plan of Mr. Owen had not been treated with all that attention which any proposition for the improvement of the country deserved. He wished the motion had been brought forward at an early period of the session. They had now carefully examined the estimates, and voted the supplies. They had had an insufficient report on foreign trade, and he wished he could say they had had none on agricultural distress. In the report of the latter committee they had an account of all the speculations of every speculative farmer and tradesman. The sum of the report was, that the farmer must receive less for his produce, the landlord less rent, and the shopkeeper less profit. As the farmer had less money to spend, he must reduce his expenses in every direction, and some of the reduction must fall upon the labourer. It was under these appalling circumstances, that a learned gentleman had introduced a bill to stultify that generous system of legislation for the poor on which this country had so long acted. Mr. Owen proposed a more humane plan for the improvement of the poor-laws. His plan was exposed to much prejudice; of which all inventors had to stand the brunt, till it was dissipated by time. It was no small testimony in favour of Mr.
1321Mr. J. Dawson
 said, that if the hon. member had pressed the question to a division, he would have voted for the inquiry. He wished to correct a mistake into which some gentlemen had fallen with respect to Mr. Owen's plan. He could assure the House, that if any fault was to be found with the system pursued at Lanark, it was on the score of too much religion. He was aware that there could not be too great an observance of sound religious principles; but there were persons who complained that there was too much of the vehemence of religion practised at Mr. Owen's establishment.Mr. Brougham
 replied in the negative, and with respect to the question, observed; that although America had done much to put down the slave-trade by her act of abolition, and by declaring the traffic piracy, yet until the right of reciprocal search was allowed, her efforts could not be complete. This, right of search, had acquired an ill-name by circumstances of the last war, but as we now offered a present equivalent to America for what she could give up, and not any thing future and contingent, as when one was belligerent and the other neutral; he trusted the difficulty would be soon obviated.Mr. Brougham
 thought that the House would not be acting justly, if it acceded to the motion of the hon. gentleman. Whatever might be the demerits of the individual whose conduct was now brought under consideration, he was still entitled, in common with every other person labouring under a charge, to a fair measure of justice. He could have no objection to the production of the despatch moved for, were it not for the reasons which he would briefly state. The case of Mr. Hook involved a question of considerable importance. When the dispatch which contained the substance of what had been stated by the hon. member was received in this country, it was thought fit to refer it to the Colonial Audit-board, in order that the accounts might be examined. The governor of the Mauritius had confined himself to sending Mr. Hook to this country, together with his papers. When Mr. Hook arrived, which he did in the character of a prisoner, and accompanied by other persons who were to be tried for offences committed at the Mauritius, application was made to the law officers of the Crown, to know whether the government would be justified in detaining him, and whether the circumstances of the case were of such a nature, as to authorize the institution of a criminal proceeding against him? The law officers of the Crown were of opinion that government possessed no legal power to detain Mr. Hook a prisoner, and that a criminal information could not be supported on the facts laid before them. Under these circumstances, no other course could be taken than to leave the Audit board to proceed with the examination of the accounts, and to endeavour to obtain fresh information from the Mauritius. Mr. Hook, was at this moment under examination by the Board of Audit; and a fresh case had been submitted to the law officers of the Crown, to ascertain whether he could now be prosecuted criminally.Mr. Goulburn
 observed, that although he was opposed to the principle of Mr. Owen, which tended to destroy all individuality in the societies conducted on the plan of that gentleman, yet he thought he possessed claims to the favourable consideration of the House. There was one circumstance which he thought it necessary to allude to. In the district in which Mr. Owen's' establishment was situated, a peculiar degree of distress had existed which had not in any way affected his establishment. Now the plan of the individual who had thus been able to keep the population of his establishment free from distress, whilst all around him was misery, must possess some meri.Mr. H. Gurney
1323 observed, that there was hardly a remark which had fallen from the noble marquis with which he did not entirely concur; and on the other hand, there was scarcely one observation made by the hon. mover with which he did not absolutely disagree. He could not bring himself to believe that England would be able to find a remedy for all her distresses in the quadrangular paradises of Mr. Owen. There were reasons, however, which induced him to support the motion. He had inspected many of the work-, houses in this kingdom, and the result of his observations was, that those institutions were better adapted for promoting vice and misery than any other object. It was impossible for persons to visit our
1323Mr. F. Buxton
 thought that the difficulties attending the collection of the revenue in Ireland for centuries, made it very desirable to have members on the commission of such qualifications and character as the hon. member alluded to.Mr. J. Smyth
 said, he had never heard a speech from the noble marquis in which he so entirely concurred. The very principle of this system went to take away from the people of this country all that independence and spirit which were among their noblest characteristics. He admitted the extraordinary regularity of habits and discipline which it was calculated to introduce among them; but that very regularity furnished one of the strongest objections against the system. If a man were not called upon, from the circumstances of his situation to think, he never would think; and thus, if Mr. Owen's system produced so much happiness with so little care, the adoption of it would make us a race of beings little removed from brutes, only ranging the four corners of a parallelogram, instead of the mazes of a forest. He could not, however, sit down without expressing the respect and admiration he felt for the virtues and the extensive benevolence of Mr. Owen.Mr. Hume
l.,l.,l.,1341 called the attention of the
l.,l.,l.,1341Mr. Hume
"Tellus prius ad ima dehiscat;"1315 said, he had an objection on principle to putting members of that House on commissions, particularly when there was to be a salary or remuneration. It was desirable that members should hold no office under the Crown, and it was so laid down in the act of settlement and several others, but particularly the 6th of Anne. The provision of this act was extended by 1 Geo. 1st, and 25 Geo. 2nd. His lion, friend (Mr. F. Lewis) had spoken in strong terms against the supposition that such an appointment could have the effect of influencing his vote on a particular question; but that observation would go to repeal all those acts, The gentlemen opposite were equally justified, and were bound indeed in theory, to make the same assertion, and to state that they sat there not as officers of the Crown, but as members of parliament. If true at all, it must be taken as true to its fullest extent. A different principle had, however, been avowed in the debate, on the member for Shrewsbury (Mr. Bennet's) motion. It was then stated on the opposite side of the House, that if persons under government did not give their votes in its support, the government could not be carried on. It was this dead weight of influence which tended to corrupt the House, degrade its character^ and deprive it of moral authority with the nation. It was but a hollow support which government received from those who derived an income under the administration, while the people were dissatisfied, and parliament failed of making its due impression on the public mind; There were not four divisions during the session, in which the number of the majority had equalled the number of placemen in the House. The 71 gentlemen who held places were vigilant pairers off, and therefore their power in the House was felt on every question of public importance. The general principle for which he contended was against the increase of members holding offices; and the question was, whether there ought to be a departure from that principle in the present instance? His hon. friend had on the former night expressed himself very emphatically on this pointy and had said, he hoped the earth would open and
"Tellus prius ad ima dehiscat;"1315Mr. Denman
 said that, if the present question was for the adoption of Mr. Owen's plan, he would say, no; but at the same time he felt it necessary to vote for an inquiry into the nature of that system which was found to produce so much local advantage in the only part of the country in which it was tried.Mr. W. Smith
 had the highest opinion of the disinterested benevolence of Mr. Owen's views, but thought a commission quite unnecessary. Any four or five members who would take upon them to examine Mr. Owen's establishment, and put the result of that examination on paper, would receive full credit from the public. Thus, all useful information would be obtained without the danger of having it understood out of that House, that they took up the principle of Mr. Owen as a sort of panacea for the present distress.Mr. Wilberforce
133413331332133113301329132813271326 in rising to bring forward his motion on the subject of the Slave Trade, observed, that the situation in which he now stood was very different from that in which he was placed when he addressed the House upon
133413331332133113301329132813271326Mr. Wilberforce,
1339133813371336 said, that his chief reasons for troubling the House was, to embrace the opportunity which the
1339133813371336Sir James Mackintosh
 said, the question was, whether that House would appoint one of its own members to a situation, to which a provision would be attached, either now or hereafter? He thought the House would stand much higher in the estimation of the country, if they did not give the public money to their own members.Mr. Scarlett
 thought that the mode proposed was not the most expedient mode of inquiry. If any gentleman thought the principle good, perhaps the best way of proceeding would be to bring in a specific bill on the subject.Mr. Scarlett
1342 explained the cir-
1342Sir J. Marjoribanks
 thought that the House was precisely the place for considering of any plan that might lead to the improvement of the people, and bore testimony to the prevalent good effects of Mr. Owen's establishment.Sir W. De Crespigny
142014191418 in rising to second the motion of the hon. member for Aberdeen, begged leave to offer him his sincere thanks for the constant attention which he had paid during the present session to the Estimates of the country, and to the zeal, ability, and perseverance with which he had endeavoured to effect a reduction of the public expenditure. He was persuaded that, in offering this testimony of his gratitude, he only echoed the sentiments of the people of England for the hon. member for Aberdeen, by the conduct which he had pursued during the session, had firmly rivetted himself in their confidence and esteem [Hear, hear!]. Having done this act of justice to the hon. gentleman, he must be excused for saying that he entertained those sentiments for him personally. He could not but regret the necessity the hon. member
142014191418The Marquis of Tavistock,
1421 believed it to be usual, on all occasions of public solemnity, to employ a large number of troops, as a matter of parade. With regard to the other observations which had fallen from the noble lord, he thought the noble lord had assumed a tone of despondency and reproach which did not come very graciously from a member of that House, who was almost in the dawn of life. The hon. member for Aberdeen had pointed out a great number of points in which, as he contended, large savings might be made; but he appeared to have forgotten that the House had already, in most of those points, decided against him [Cheers from the Opposition.] He believed, that of those gentlemen who were now cheering, not one in ten had made himself master of the items on which the hon. member for Aberdeen had insisted, and of those who had, not one in ten really believed the proposed reductions to be practicable. It was holding out a false expectation to the country to say, that four millions might be saved. He thought it also objectionable that the hon. gentleman should have taken away the credit due to ministers for the reductions which they had made this year, as compared with the expenditure of the last. It was true he could have wished that they had advanced more rapidly in the process of reduction; but still they were entitled to credit for what they had done. Besides, the hon. gentleman, whose industry no one could doubt, must have been aware that a commission had been employed for a long while in inquiring into the department of the Customs with a view to reduction. The recom-
1421Mr. Bankes
1428l.l.l.14271426142514241423 said, that in rising to trouble the House upon the present occasion, lie hoped they would allow him to indulge in a few preliminary observations in explanation of the general view which he meant to take of the course pursued by the gentlemen opposite: and he should in the first place consider himself to be one of those visionary politicians whom he wished to decry, if in throwing himself upon the candour of the House, for that constitutional confidence which as a member of his majesty's government he hoped he deserved at their hands, be should for a moment be considered as denying the right to call upon administration for an explanation of what his majesty's government had already done, or meant hereafter to do, in the reduction of the public expenditure. Still, however, in stating the conduct of the administration to which he had the honour of belonging, he should deservedly incur the charge of being a great hypocrite, if he said that he expected from some of the gentlemen opposite any candour in their estimate either of what had been done, or was in progress of being done, by his majesty's government. He did not mean to impute individually to those who contended, he hoped in an honourable struggle, in opposition to the measures of government, any particular want of candour: but the fact was, that they were, as a party, so accustomed to look with a jaundiced eye at every thing which was done at his side of the house, that if he and those with whom he acted were to wait either for their praise or even
1428l.l.l.14271426142514241423The Marquis of Londonderry
1436l.,l.1435bonâ fide14341433143214311430 said, that, unwilling as he was to offer himself to the notice of the House, and little as he was in the habit of doing so, yet as he was prevented by other duties from attending on former occasions when the expenditure of the country had been discussed, he was anxious not to miss this opportunity,— the last probably the session would afford, —of endeavouring to describe in a few words the great importance he attached to that subject [Hear!]. And he should break through his repugnance to trouble the House with the less difficulty, because, as he would freely confess, he was desponding enough to think the situation of the country so threatening, that almost no financial disasters were too great to anticipate, and that it was impossible to say how soon the period might come when remonstrance upon the subject of expenditure might be too late. Thinking, then, as he did, that, although the country might yet be saved, it could only be saved by an early change of system in that respect, he considered himself bound, even in the humble situation he had the honour to fill in that House, not to be backward in expressing and explaining his opinions. He certainly regretted not having been present on former nights when the estimates were before the House; although if
1436l.,l.1435bonâ fide14341433143214311430The Marquis of Titchfield
 observed, that there was a marked inconsistency in the conduct of gentlemen on the other side. The hon. member who spoke last deprecated any resort to committees on great public questions, while the hon. member for Aberdeen asked only for committees on the various subjects to which he called the attention of the House, and offered to prove all his statements before such committees. The right hon. gentleman went on to show that very great benefits had accrued to the country by the commission which had been appointed to inquire into the collection of the customs. They had done every thing in their power to limit the expenditure in that department, as far as was consistent with the safety of the country.Sir C Long
l.l. was not disposed to detain the House long, more especially after the very able exposition of the state of the country by the noble member for Blechingley, which completely coincided with his view of the subject. The hon. member for Corfe-castle had talked of delusion; but that hon. member himself was the great deluder. All that he (Mr. M.) wished for on the ground of economy was founded on the delusion of the hon. member for Corfe-castle, in the fourth Report of the Finance Committee. In that report it was stated, that the country ought to be governed at an expense of 17,380,000l.l.Mr. Maberly
1439 observed that the taunting tone of the noble lord opposite generally proceeded from what he considered to be the feelings of those who supported him; but never was there a greater dissonance than that which now existed between them. The noble lord was fully aware, that one or other of the questions must be carried; and he would put it even to the hon. member for Corfe-castle himself, whether, if such an amendment had not been moved, the noble lord would not have met the original resolution with the previous question. The noble lord said, that he was friendly to economy in every department; but if the House gave him credit for that assertion, where was the necessity for either of the resolutions? The fact was, that the noble lord was afraid to put the previous question. The noble lord did not now rely with equal confidence on his former majorities, and was obliged to conform to what he found was the disposition of the House. There was, however, very little difference between the two motions. The principal difference was, that the motion of the hon. member for Corfe-castle was introduced with a speech laudatory of what ministers had already done towards reduction. Ministers, by supporting the amendment, showed that they felt themselves in a new situation. They were evidently in a state of repentance, conscious that they could not go on as they had hitherto done. He could not otherwise account for the juggle of the proposed amendment, than by supposing that either the hon. member for Aberdeen had not kept his secret with respect to the nature of his motion, or that the secrets of the agricultural committee had been suffered to transpire. A silent but virtual change was going on in the constitution of the country—a change which was wholly attributable to the weakness of the executive government. He meant that sort of change by which ministers ceased to introduce great public measures on their own responsibility; but left them to be effected by committees of that House, under the shelter of which they screened themselves. Such a practice could not be too much reprobated. As a decided
1439Mr. Abercromby
l.l.1442l.l.l.l.;l.l.l.l.,l.l.14411440 rose to reply. He said, that to the general assertions of the noble marquis opposite, that he was a visionary in his plans of reduction, he would only answer, that they were deserving of that epithet who, like the noble lord and his friends, had made sweeping charges and assertions to the House which were not borne out by facts. He had taken his statements almost universally from official
l.l.1442l.l.l.l.;l.l.l.l.,l.l.14411440Mr. Hume
l.l.l.l.l.l.1346 began by observing, that he ought to apologise to the House for submitting to its consideration a question of such great importance, as that which he had undertaken to bring forward, at so late a period of the session. Various circumstances had, however, concurred to postpone this motion for ten or twelve days beyond the period which he had originally fixed. Any person who had attended to the proceedings of the House, during the present session, must have noticed the repeated statements which had been made, from both sides, of the distress that weighed upon all classes of the community. There were no doubts on his mind, that the agricultural, commercial, and manufacturing interests were equally depressed. The distress of the agriculturists had been described as almost unexampled; manufacturing capital had suffered no less; and commercial transactions of every description produced profits scarcely sufficient to make it a matter of interest to carry them on.—He was of opinion, that relief could only be given by reducing the expenditure of the country, and thus permitting a reduction of the public burthens. Although he had voted in favour of the appointment of the committee to inquire into the state of agriculture, he did not at the time anticipate, that any benefit, except that of placing in a proper point of view the causes of the distress, would result from the labours of that committee. He thought the Report which had been made, would, in that way, have a most beneficial effect. It would show those gentlemen, who were generally said to represent the agricultural interest in that House, how erroneous the opinions were, which they had entertained, of the possibility of raising the price of their produce, in order to, relieve their own distress at the expense of the other classes of the, community. Many persons who formerly entertained such views, were now convinced of their fallacy, and agreed, that the only was relieve the country, was that pointed out by the report, namely, a reduction of the expenditure: and he was confident real relief could only be obtained by the most rigid economy and retrenchment in every department.l.l.l.l.l.l.1346Mr. Hume
 expressed his surprise that gentlemen opposite, who, at the commencement of the career of his hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen, affected not to notice him, were now ready to allow that he had considerable merit. Finding themselves hardly pushed, they had been obliged to call in the hon. member for Corfe Castle, who had given them all the assistance in his power. He had been engaged in bringing up the rear of the ministers, and he had succeeded extremely well. The hon. member for Aberdeen, whose strenuous exertions for the reduction of expense were well known, submitted a proposition of great importance to the House; and then came the hon. member for Corfe Castle with his proposition, which neutralized the one originally submitted to the House.Mr. Creevey
1438l. said, that the noble marquis (Titchfield) had taken too gloomy a view of the state of the country. When he spoke of its helpless and hopeless state, he ought to have recollected that his own friends and relations the other night wished government to interfere with the proceedings of other powers, and would have probably, by such interference, involved us in a war with them. Their desire of interference must therefore have not been sincere, or else they did not believe the country to be in so helpless a state as they pretended. He would deny that the expense of collecting the revenue exceeded four millions, and must protest against the assertion of the hon. member for Aberdeen, that his majesty's ministers had declared that they had reduced the establishments of the country so low, that they were not susceptible of any farther reduction. In opposition to the declaration of the hon. member, that there had been no retrenchment in the present year, he compared the sums voted in the present year with the sums voted in the last year, to show that there was a reduction of 1,770,0001438l.Mr. Huskisson
 preferred the amended address, because it contained no censure upon government, as having neglected all economy. He also vindicated the late contest, and contended that the expenses which it had brought on the nation, were necessary for the preservation of its honour and independence.Mr. Wilmot
 was anxious to beat testimony, as chairman of the agricultural committee, to the spirit of economy and retrenchment which pervaded their inquiries. He preferred the address proposed by the hon. member for Corfe Castle to that proposed by the hon. member for Aberdeen, because the latter was expressed in atone of censure against ministers, which he did not think they deserved. He was of opinion at the same time, that ministers ought to have commenced the reductions earlier: they had taken the subject up now, and he was sure they had done so with sincerity. The address which attached censure to ministers, could only be considered as a party question; and as he would rather have the present ministers in place than their opponents, he would resist the motion.Mr. Gooch
1429 thought that until parliament had received proofs of the noble lord's economy, they were justified in judging from what he had done of what he professed to do. The noble lord had stated, that he pressed economy in the Agricultural committee; but the object of its report seemed to be to divert the agricultural mind of the country from the real causes of the distress to other objects. The price of labour had already fallen, but the fall was no relief to the agriculturist; for the farmer, by paying less in wages, might be certain that he must pay more in poor-rates. As he considered both addresses to amount to the same thing, he would vote for treat which was likely to unite the greatest number of suffrages. Gentlemen opposite had been lavish of their praises on the exertions of his hon. friend, though they took care never to give him their support; however, when the praise came from them, it proved that the encomiums were not undeserved. He was sure that the exertions
1429Lord Milton
l.l.l. called the attention of the House to the partial distribution of government patronage to the press of Ireland. The House would scarcely believe in what manner the government of Ireland managed the money granted for this purpose. He could show that proclamations of disturbances in districts were made, not in the newspapers of those districts, but in those of other counties. The publication was thus made, not for the purpose of spreading the requisite information, but of putting money into the pockets of certain editors, who were the creatures of the ministry. The sums of money given to them for advertising were in the inverse ratio of their claims to respectability and the extent of their circulation. Some papers received to the amount of between 1,000l.l.l.Mr. Bennet
l.l. said, that 9,000l.l.Mr. Grant
l.1447l. thought that the only means of putting an end to this great abuse was; to stop the allowance granted for supporting it. It appeared that the bribery of the government journals did not extend only to proclamations, but to other government advertisements, and was likewise taking root in England. A very considerable portion of the money which they had that night voted would be applied to the same purpose as the 7,000l.1447l.Mr. Hume
1449 said, that several cases had been quoted to prove what were the evil effects of the alien law. He would take leave to mention another, which went to show what was the idea that was entertained of it by foreigners themselves. Some time since he happened to be in the theatre at Milan, in company with an English physician. His friend being incommoded with the cap of a grenadier officer who stood before him, begged him to take it off that he might see what was going on. To this civil request a rude answer was given, and the Englishman desired the grenadier to walk out of the box. The invitation being immediately complied with, both himself and his friend concluded that the preliminaries of a more particular meeting were immediately to be arranged. The House would judge of their mutual surprise, when, upon crossing a lobby, his friend was seized, put in the guard-house, and next morning desired, by a message from count Saurau, to quit the Milanese immediately. Upon his remonstrating with, the count, upon the hardship of the case, the count replied, "I believe you are
1449Mr. Hobhouse
 observed, that while we were holding out to foreign nations every inducement to trade with us, we ought to remove that impediment to a closer connection with those nations, which the Alien bill presented.Mr. Bernal
 said, the gallant general was too well aware of the course and practice of parliament, really to suppose that a question upon the charge of the Alien-office was a proper opportunity for discussing the Alien law. That law would only have operation for one year more; and a much more fitting occasion for such a discussion might be found. With regard to the law, he had always protested against the notion of its having been framed with a view to the particular wishes of any foreign nation whatever. Whenever the gallant general could make out a single case, in which any foreigner for his conduct abroad had been excluded from these shores, contrary to the well known hospitality of the country, and the generous spirit of our foreign and domestic policy, he would admit that the Alien act had been abused. It was a very different thing, however, that, where a foreigner came here, in order to make this kingdom the theatre of his conspiracies, and of his hostile machinations against other and friendly powers, he should be prevented from remaining. When this bill expired, and his majesty's government propose its renewal, it would then be for the gallant general to bring up his artillery to bear against it. At present he was only wasting his powder and shot, and directing his fire, not against the principle of the law, but against the officers and clerks of the establishment.The Marquis of Londonderry
 said, he would give his decided opposition to the grant. As an instance of the conduct pursued in Naples, he begged to state a fact which had been communicated to him upon the best authority. A Neapolitan senator had taken refuge on board a Spanish ship. He was there visited by sir W. A'Court and the French ambassador, who expressed their regret that he should entertain any jealousy or alarm, and promised that he might come on shore with perfect safety. The senator, relying on these promises, went on shore, accompanied by his son, a boy of 18 years of age, and they were immediately arrested and thrown into one of the worst prisons in the town. The confinement of this gentleman was the more unpardonable, as sir W. A'Court, by speaking one word, could instantly release him from prison. A recollection of some transactions which took place some time ago when he (Mr. B.) was in Italy, made him tremble for the fate of this unfortunate senator, under the government of the king of the Lazzaroni.Mr. Bennet
 said, it was no bad Criterion of the mildness of the king of Naples' government, that he was beloved and respected by the Lazzaroni. With respect to what the hon. member had said of sir W. A'Court, he could not believe that that gentleman would lend himself to any such transaction.The Marquis of Londonderry
 thought that a system of tyranny was now acted upon by the chief of the allied sovereigns, and that their great object wus to put down liberty in Europe; and he believed that though the noble marquis had not dared to affix his name to any of their public declarations, yet he was not unfriendly to their system.Mr. Hutchinson
 put it to the Chair whether the words "ferocious manner" ought to be used in speaking of the royal family.The Marquis of Londonderry
, jun., said, that there was no analogy between the case of the Queen and that of the duke of Clarence. Her majesty had refused a part of the grant offered her by parliament, because she considered it was too much, and his royal highness had not accepted what he considered too little for the due maintenance of his rank in the country. At the time he had so refused it, he could not have been certain whether the illustrious princess to whom he was now united would have consented to settle in this country.Mr. Bankes
l. said, that he was willing to vote for the 6,000l.Mr. Harhord
l. could not help feeling insuperable objections to the proposed coronation. He could not but grudge the whole expenses of it, not from disrespect to the sovereign, but from a thorough conviction that it was ill-suited to the poverty and distress of the times. It was not fit that the country, sick at heart as it was, should look so gay in the face. The large sum of 100,000l.Mr. Bennet
l.1454 said, that the coronation was called a mere show; but he would tell the hen, gentlemen that that august ceremony was performed under the authority of law; that it was an institution ancient and venerable, sanctioned by the usage of ages, and by the spirit of the constitution. Ministers would have neglected their duty to the sovereign if they bad not advised the performance of that ceremony with as little delay as possible. He lamented, as a part of the bit-
l.1454The Marquis of Londonderry
 said, he would oppose the grant, because he disapproved of it on principle, and because it was opposed to the sentiments and wishes of the people.Mr. C. F. Palmer
 said, that a coronation had always taken place on the accession of the sovereign. The coronation oath had been since the Revolution part of the law of the land, and could not be administered but at the coronation.Mr. Bathurst
 said, he could assure the hon. member, that it had been the intention of government to adopt economical measures, before the address was voted by the House. The conduct of ministers would have been the same, had neither of the addresses been moved. In the Address which the House had voted, and which was certainly more pointed than that proposed by the hon. member, ministers had given pledges which they would strictly perform. He was glad to see the hon. gentleman in such good humour, and to perceive that the debates of the session had not soured his good temper, which would, he doubted not, render him a valuable acquisition to the society lie was about to join.The Marquis of Londonderry
1460l.l.1459l,l.l.l.1458l.l.l.,l.1457l.l.l.l.d1456 said, that the Bill contained matter which afforded ample ground for
1460l.l.1459l,l.l.l.1458l.l.l.,l.1457l.l.l.l.d1456Mr. Hume
1455 said, that the noble marquis thought fit to throw very serious imputations upon gentlemen on his side of the House. But he would tell the noble lord, that he and his colleagues were the firebrands that created a flame through the country, when they attempted to crush the Queen of England. But it was too much for the noble lord to call the coronation an august and sacred ceremony. He denied that any ceremony could be august and sacred that was, like this, founded in injustice. If it was proper that the king should be crowned, it was right that the queen should be crowned also; if otherwise, the coronation, instead of being an august and sacred solemnity, would be a partial, wanton, cruel act of injustice. The noble lord and another noble lord stood pledged, that if the Queen should be acquitted she would be in titled to all her rights and privileges as Queen. Yet the noble lord now talked to the House of the august and sacred solemnity of a coronation from which the Queen-consort should be excluded! He believed no administration had ever departed so widely from the principles of Christianity, or wounded so deeply all the feelings and principles that were dearest to the heart of man. Was it not then too much for those who exerted all their power to prevent, to stop, to arrest such wrongs, to be charged by the noble marquis with disturbing, exciting, and inflaming the country? He had early, earnestly, and in every possible stage, resisted the persecution against the Queen, which had more generally and more justly inflamed the country than any act since the Revolutions. He now gave a piece of
1455Mr. Hume
 said, he spoke of his royal highness merely in the capacity of a suitor to that House for money. He had heard the duke of Clarence signify his "content," in the case of the Queen, in a manner which he never could have expected, considering that the illustrious person was his own cousin—his sister-in-law—a princess of the house of Brunswick—and the Queen of England. The tone, and manner, and temper in which his royal highness pronounced his sentence, had made an impression on him that he should never forget. It was such as he never expected to have seen or heard in any civilized society [cries of Order!].Mr. Creevey
1452.. thought that ministers were not treating the House as they ought on the present occasion. They had been hunting down bills both day and night during the whole session, and now, at its Conclusion, they proposed a measure which ought to have been introduced sufficiently early to enable gentlemen to give it a due consideration. His next objection was, that the whole proceeding was perfectly unconstitutional. It was not against any positive law, it certainly was against the understood usage of parliament, to connect this bill with something which took place two parliaments ago. All that could be said by the royal duke was, that if he could induce parliament to be so foolish as to grant him this money, he had the consent of the Crown in his favour. He contended that a message from the Crown ought to have been laid before the House before the bill was introduced, He objected also to parliament being made the instrument of favouritism, either by the Crown or the ministers. They ought not to allow themselves to show favour to one branch of the royal family, while another branch was neglected. He had heard it said, that her majesty was to have a sum of money allowed her as an outfit. This, however, was forgotten, and it was an outrage on parliament to make it the instrument of favouring this royal duke, while the Queen was allowed to be sacrificed. The Queen had as good a right as the duke of Clarence to the consideration of parliament. Her majesty had, with a magnanimity which did her great honour, refused to accept more than 35,0001452..Mr. Creevey
1453 said, he would go no farther in his comments, but would turn to another subject—that of the coronation; and he could not help observing, though he admitted, with the noble lord opposite, that it was a solemn compact between the king and his people, that somehow or other, it was not so regarded by the people. How else could he account for the questions put by almost all who spoke upon the subject, as to whether it was really to take place? How, he asked, could such questions be accounted for, except upon the supposition that the people thought the present was not the
1453Mr. Creevey
 contended, that there was nothing in the coronation which could bind more firmly the people to the sovereign. Of one thing he was convinced, that if the sovereign, from a wish to save the money of his people, consented to forego this ceremony, he would do more to raise himself in the affection and respect of Englishmen, than by going through any ceremony, though it were ten times more splendid than that which was contemplated.Mr. W. Smith
 said, that he was sure no gentleman would more warmly contend for the freedom of debate in that House than the hon. member. He no doubt, would consider the freedom of that House infringed on, if any person in any other place commented on any thing that might pass within the walls of that House.The Speaker
 was sure the hon. member would see the impropriety of using such expressions.The Speaker
1450 said, that such was his abhorrence of the measure, that he felt himself bound to avail himself of every opportunity of opposing it. Unfortunately it was now too late in the session to think of proposing the repeal of this law; but still he felt it necessary to object to the money by which it was to be carried into execution. Having no other means of
1450Sir J. Mackintosh
1448 rose to oppose the grant. If a foreigner misconducted himself in this country, it would be much better to proceed against him by indictment, than as now summarily by the Alien bill, on clandestine information. In some cases the evasion of the law prevented the foreigner from availing himself even of the scanty means of justification, which the bill itself afforded. In France, by the charter, although a passport was necessary
1448Sir R. Wilson
 said, that this was too grave a subject to be discussed in this incidental manner. He hoped it would not be inferred, from any thing which he had said, that her majesty would not be heard before the council.The Marquis of Londonderry
 objected to the bill now before the House, and entered his solemn protest against granting the arrears. He really thought that there was a source of royal bounty, which ought to be open to the duke of Clarence, if he was fettered with debts. It was much more becoming that the liberality of the Crown should supply his wants, than that recourse should be had to this injudicious and unconstitutional mode.Mr. Bernal
1462 said, he had never given any opinion whatsoever on her majesty's legal claim. What he understood was, that the legal claim was
1462The Marquis of Londonderry
 said, it was easy to give an answer with respect to the discretion vested in the Crown. That was only one part of the question; but when a decided claim of right was made, it was necessary that it should undergo the usual course of investigation. When the learned gentleman complained that an immediate answer was not given, he might be permitted to observe, that he saw nothing of that extraordinary degree of facility in the conduct of the learned gentleman himself, when, he suffered so many days to elapse between the notification of the period for which the coronation was fixed, arid the introduction of this claim of right.The Marquis of Londonderry
1461 gave his decided ne-
1461Sir R. Fergusson
 said, that her majesty had claimed, as a right, that she should be crowned; but, as he understood the matter, she had no such right. It was entirely in the discretion of the Crown whether or not her majesty should be crowned: and the advice of ministers was that she should not participate in the ceremony.The Marquis of Londonderry
 —I wish to ask when that application from her majesty was made?Sir R. Fergusson
 —A few days ago.The Marquis of Londonderry
 —I should be glad to know whether her majesty's counsel, or the legal advisers of the Crown, were consulted on this occasion?Sir R. Fergusson
 —I do not apprehend that I am here to answer every question the gallant officer may think proper to put to me on the subject.The Marquis of Londonderry
 said, he had given his vote for the arrears, but he protested against the grant being considered a claim of right. He thought it rather hard on his royal highness that any hasty resolve of his should be severely visited on him. He wished to uphold the credit and character of the royal family, and that consideration had influenced his vote. With respect to the coronation, he would not give one shilling towards it beyond, what had already been voted.Colonel Davies
l.l. said, the duke of Clarence did not formerly refuse the grant on account of advice given to him by any individual in office, but on the suggestion of his private and personal friends. They represented to him that having required 10,000l.l.Mr. Watson Taylor
1464 defended the grant, on the ground that the younger branches of the family of the late good old king should
1464Mr. R. Martin
 said, that so far from feeling that any thing like a reproach could attach to her majesty's legal advisers for the course they had pursued, it appeared to him that they would have acted improperly if they had put this claim forward until it was perfectly clear, that the coronation was about to take place. He thought her majesty's legal advisers had some right to complain of the delay which had occurred in giving an answer to her majesty's application. The ceremony was in itself a pageant, but the custom of the country gave the Queen a right to participate in it. Ministers ought to have been prepared with a speedy and decisive answer whenever the application was made; but this delay showed, at all events, that such a doubt existed, as entitled her majesty's legal advisers to be heard before the council.Mr. Denman
 said the questions were put to the noble marquis as a member of parliament, and not with reference to the situation of a privy councillor; and being applied to in the former character, he ought to answer questions touching grave matters of state. In answer to an application made by the Queen on Monday last, it was stated that the law officers of the Crown would be consulted on the subject. Now, as the omission of the Queen's name in the Liturgy was declaring virtually that she should not be crowned, he was surprised that the same parties should be again consulted who had, as it were, already expressed a decided opinion. But as it appeared from the answer given by lord Sidmouth to lord Hood, that her majesty's application was now under consideration, it might be fairly inferred that there was claim enough on the part of her majesty to entitle her to be heard before the council on the subject of that claim. It did appear to him most extraordinary, that from Monday to Saturday no definite answer had been given, on a point which should have been as clear as the day, before that step was taken, which, indeed, amounted to an exclusion from the ceremony of the coronation.Mr. Denman
1463 conceived it was not fair for the noble lord to speculate on the motives which caused the delay in pre-
1463Mr. Scarlett
l.l. declared, that he had never heard a proposition so unprincipled and so extravagant, as the proposition to pay what were called the arrears. To acquiesce in such a proposition, would be to show that the House was indifferent about that economy of which so much had been said, He should vote against the payment of any arrears; but the prospective grant of 6,000l.l.Mr. Becher
1478 said, he had not intended any reflection on her majesty's legal advisers in their professional character. He had merely contrasted the rapidity with which they had expected an answer, with the slowness of their own movements in making the legal claim. The 21st of May was not the only occasion on which the opinion of his majesty's ministers had been intimated to the Queen. Between that day and the 21st of June, her majesty addressed a letter to the earl of Liverpool, desiring to be informed what arrangements had been made for her convenience, and who were appointed as her attendants on the approaching solemnity. An official answer was returned, stating that it was a right of the down to give or withhold the order for her majesty's coronation, and that his majesty would be advised not to make any order for her majesty's participation in the arrangements. The Queen rejoined insisting on her right, and declaring that she should attend the coronation unless she were absolutely prevented. A respectful but equally peremptory answer was returned to her majesty, repeating the legal right of the Crown, and declaring that the former answer must be understood as amounting to a prohibition of her attendance. These proceedings clearly showed that her majesty was fully aware of the course intended to be taken by the government. There was on Saturday, a significant manner and an accusing tone about the hon. and learned member (Mr. Denman), as if there had been on the part of ministers an absolute denial of justice. Now, with these facts before the House, he would ask, whether it was not rather hard to call ministers over the coals and blame them for the delay? Respecting the hearing of her majesty's law officers before the privy council in support of, the claim, he had to state to the, House, that this had been asked that very morn-
1478The Marquis of Londonderry
 said, that he would certainly oppose such a bill, if he believed that it tended to degrade the poor; but his settled conviction was, that the increase of Poor-rates was an increase of misery. If he failed to express this conviction from any unpopularity td which it might expose him, he should prove himself destitute of moral courage. The effect of the present laws, was, to oblige the industrious and prudent to support the improvident and thoughtless; to mulct the single individual for the support of the married. Every country long inhabited had been obliged to have recourse to emigration. Why should England be an exception? The bill prohibiting artificers from emigrating was utterly unjust in its principle. He was glad, however, that the bill of his learned friend was withdrawn for the present; the public press, the great instrument of discussion in this country, would in the mean time examine its details, and when the House should come to consider it next session, they would be themselves better prepared, and the public would be found better informed respecting it.Dr. Lushington
 considered the Poor-laws as the chartered rights of the poor, and hoped the House would pause before it consented to touch them.Mr. C. F. Palmer
 conceived it to be unfair to take that opportunity of making general declarations against the measure. Although he had been desired to oppose it, yet so convinced was he of its necessity, and so friendly to its general purpose, that without pledging himself to support the precise bill, he felt that some measure of that nature was quite necessary.Colonel Davies
 said, he disapproved of the principle of the bill, though he was disposed to thank the learned gentleman for having called their attentions to a subject of great importance.Mr. Harbord
1477 hoped, that as he was not in the House on Saturday, he would be allowed to offer an explanation of the alleged delay which had taken place in asserting her majesty's claim to be crowned. The noble marquis had stated the delay to be about two months from the time that ministers had intimated their own opinion on the subject. To show the inaccuracy of this statement, it would be necessary to refer to dates. On the 21st of May, a question was put by his hon. friend (Mr. Monck) which was answered by the chancellor of the Exchequer; and in the course of the conversation which followed, the noble marquis stated his opinion. Something had been said respecting an authority for her majesty to attend the coronation: but it was clear that there was no necessity for any such authority, as her majesty had a right, as a subject, to attend the ceremony as a spectator. The noble marquis also said, that there was no right so clear as that of the Crown with respect to this subject; and that the coronation of the queen-consort depended upon the grace and favour of the king. He at that time protested against the doctrine of the noble marquis; adding, that he had not made up his own mind on the legal question—and protesting against the doctrine of the noble marquis, lest his silence on that occasion should be construed into assent. This was what had taken place on the 21st of May. It was not the duty of her majesty's law officers to put in her claim immediately upon this. It was their duty to wait her majesty's orders, as they were not her responsible advisers like the ministers of the Crown. Besides, as the coronation had been appointed in the preceding year, and had been postponed, it became proper to wait until there was almost a certainty of its actually taking place. The proclamation appointing the ceremony this year was dated the 9th of June; and inserted in the Gazette on the 12th. The memorial claiming her majesty's right to be crowned was settled at his chambers eleven days afterwards; and upon a subject of such great importance he was not disposed to take any great blame to himself for a delay of eleven days, even had that not (as it had) been partially caused by the indisposition of Dr. Lushington. The holidays had also intervened, and the British Museum was shut, to which plate access was required for the purpose of making
1477Mr. Brougham
1482ll.1481 said, that as the hon. and learned gentleman threatened them with a renewal of these most dangerous discussions in the ensuing session, he could not allow the bill to be withdrawn, without the strongest protest he was able to make against all the principles on which it was founded. He maintained, that the understood right of the poor to reasonable support was as old as the law of England; that up to this time it had been the boast of England, that no man could be left to starve; that the learned gentleman's bill went to the reversal of the law of the land, the laws of nature, and the law of God, and that its only possible tendency would be, to make the country a scene of rapine and violence and utter confusion, from one end to the other. The hon. gentleman referred to Harrison's preface to Holinshed, in which he gives a description of the state of England in the 60 years between 1526 and 1586, a period during which a total revolution in the prices of all things had taken place, similar to that which we had witnessed in Our own days, as affording a striking exposition of the situation in which we should have found ourselves, had we not been carried through, with whatever diffi-
1482ll.1481Mr. H. Gurney
 said, he considered the Poor-laws to be an ingenious device for obtaining the greatest quantity of labour at the least expense. They ought therefore to be abolished; but previously to any attempt of that kind, redress must be given of great and numerous grievances.Mr. Monck
 felt himself bound to oppose the grant. In the present situation of the country, the simple consideration for the House was, whether strict necessity or justice required such an expenditure. The only way in which ministers could be made to be economical was by lopping off some of the taxes, and thereby depriving them of the means of being otherwise.Mr. Monck
1483 said, in reference to what had been observed with respect to the popularity sought by the opponents of the bill, that if any thing gave him cause to regret the part which he had taken, it was, the praises which he had received for his conduct, in a quarter from which he neither expected nor desired them. He hoped that the learned gentleman would give the House, in the next session, an opportunity of discussing the Poor-laws upon their principle, and of coming to a determination, either to abandon or maintain that principle. He should for one, be prepared to maintain it. If out-voted, he most acquiesce; but he hoped that if the House should decide with him, for upholding the principle of the Poor-laws the supporters of the present bill would
1483Mr. T. Courtenay
1475 rose to call the attention of the House, and still more of the public, to the time at which the subject was brought before parliament. When a motion for repealing the Malt tax was carried in that House, the number of members present being 274, the noble marquis declared, that the House was too thin finally to determine on so important a subject; he advised gentlemen not "to halloo before they were out of the wood," and in the end, he actually did convert the majority of 24 for a repeal of the tax, into a majority of 98 for its continuance. Again, when the hon. member for Cumberland succeeded in inducing a House of 254 members to agree to a repeal of the agricultural horse tax, the chancellor of the exchequer said, that it was too small a House, and that he would try his hand again; a resolution, however, from which he had subsequently been diverted. A House of 274, or of 254 members, was too small to discuss a subject in which the interests of
1475Mr. Creevey
 certainly thought her majesty's advisers had a right to complain that no answer had been sent to the memorial from Monday to Saturday last. The application itself, he contended, it would have been improper to make until the actual celebration of the solemnity had become morally certain. With respect to the former application, alluded to by the noble marquis, he trusted the noble marquis would pay him and his learned friends the compliment to believe that they had not prepared it; in fact, it had been presented while they were on the circuit, and they of course waited for her majesty's personal instructions on the subject. It had been represented that he had said, that the exclusion of her majesty's name from the Liturgy, was of itself a warning that she would not be crowned. He was not aware that he had ever made any such observation. If he had, it must have been incidentally, as he did not see that the exclusion from the Liturgy, necessarily led to an exclusion from the coronation.Mr. Denman
1480 said, he did not rise for the purpose of opening a discussion on this subject. His object was to withdraw the bill for this session. It had been his wish and determination that the bill should not pass without ample discussion. He need not remind the House of the causes which had prevented him from attaining that part of his object. He postponed it also, in order to have an opportunity of acquiring strength to make an adequate reply to the gallant member (sir R. Wilson). He knew that the gallant general had got together a great mass of legal matter to oppose him with. He confessed, that in order to meet this terrific battery, he was anxious to have a little time to brush up his law. He was aware that many inflammatory and calumnious misrepresentations had gone abroad on this subject. He assured the House that his motives in meddling with the matter were of the most pure description. He felt that the existing system of Poor-laws was most oppressive on one hand, and that it defeated its
1480Mr. Scarlett
 said, he would state to the House the opinions of an individual, with respect to the tendency of our Poor-laws, who certainly did not deserve the imputation of advocating mad schemes. The person whose opinions he was about to stale to the House was Dr. Franklin. That eminent individual had said, that "he was for doing good to the poor, but he doubted as to the means of effecting that object. In his youth he had travelled much, and he found that in those countries where most was done for the poor by the state, their situation was the most deplorable. He thought that those who passed the English Poor-laws took away the greatest inducement to frugality, industry, and morality; and had substituted a premium on idleness and crime. He was of opinion that a great change in the habits of the people would soon be perceived, if the-Poor-laws were repealed."Mr. Scarlett
 begged to assure the learned gentleman, that as it was his intention to renew this measure next session, he would find him at his post, prepared to dispute every inch of ground with him.Sir R. Wilson
1485ex-parte rose to present a petition from W. Benbow, late a bookseller in the Strand, but know a prisoner in the King's-bench prison. He stated, that the petitioner was arrested on the 21st of May last, on a warrant issued on the finding of two indictments for alleged libels; which indictments were preferred against him by a body calling itself, "The Constitutional Association." It seemed that the judges now thought themselves justified, in cases of libel, in holding the defendant to bail, not only for his appearance, but for his good behaviour also. The petitioner stated, "That on such arrest he was required to give bail, not only for his appearance to answer such indictments, but also for his good behaviour until the same should be tried. That the petitioner's friends, though perfectly ready to answer for his appearance, were unwilling to bind themselves for the indefinite and undefinable good behaviour of the petitioner; especially as it has been industriously circulated by the attorney for the prosecution, that their recognizances would be forfeited by the mere finding of a true bill against the petitioner for any other political offence, though such bill might be found upon false and 1485ex-parteMr. Hobhouse
 said, he had no doubt that, with respect to the bail required, the judge had exercised a sound discretion. With respect to the postponement of the sittings after term, in consequence of the coronation, he did not suppose that notion was well-grounded. If, however, it should appear to be so, he would willingly exercise his authority to shield the petitioner from any additional inconvenience on that account, by obtaining his discharge upon such security as he could give.The Attorney-General
1490 said, that if he understood the practice of the Court of King's-bench rightly, it would be impossible to put a stop to prosecutions instituted against individuals by the society in question, in the way proposed by the motion. The court never inquired who the prosecutor was. The hon. member had described the principles of the association as odious he wished, however, the hon. gentleman had described what those principles were. In the light in which he (Mr. B.) viewed the association, it was nothing more than a certain set of gentlemen, who considered that libels ought to be punished. He could distinguish, however, between the principle on which the association was founded, and that on which it was conducted. The hon. member seemed to think, that no person might assume the authority of the attorney-general. He apprehended that this opinion was contrary to the law and the constitution. Every person who prosecuted another, assumed the character of a public prosecutor, by acting in the king's name. The office of the attorney-general was only an exception to this rule. In every part of the country societies existed for the prosecution of different offences; and he could see no distinction between the principle on which they were founded, and that on which the present association existed. He thought it was improbable that the society could have originated from the selfish schemes of a few professional individuals. Had the association originated in this manner, it never would have been able to attract so, much notice. The very circumstance, of its having been alluded to so frequently in that House, proved that the, society, had done, and was doing, a great deal,—of. good or evil, he would not pretend to say. He was of opinion, that the more the attention of the country was directed towards the society, by the
1490Mr. Bathurst
 thought it not a little; extraordinary that, after the almost Uninterrupted power which hon. gentlemen opposite had maintained for the last thirty years, and in the face of the numerous laws which, under their administration had disgraced the Statute book, a cabinet minister should stand up in his place and admit the necessity of such an association as this to carry the laws against libel and sedition into effect.Dr. Lushington
 —I did not say one word as to its necessity.Mr. Bathurst
1491 —The right hon. gentleman denied that he admitted its necessity: but did he not defend it as being constitutional, and As a society whose existence was desirable f Did he not allow that government, were willing to receive the assistance of sir John Sewell, Mr. Sharp, and Mr. Murray? Either the society was useful, or it was hot. It was necessary, or it was not. If it was neces-
1491Dr. Lushington
1496ex-officio,1495ex-offlcio, said, that the motion was not sufficiently distinct at intelligible. Nobody had yet ventured to assert that the society was not legally constituted. If such were the case, the courts of law were open to any of its opponents. The fact that no appeal upon this point had been made to the proper forum, of itself showed that there was no ground for attacking its legality. In the same way, no attempt had been made to call in question the legality of the society for the Suppression of Vice, to which allusion had been frequently made, and between which and this society he could see no distinction whatever. It was a most extraordinary doctrine urged on the other side, that the attorney-general was the only public prosecutor in the country. If he brought a case of libel into court, he was constantly assailed by the defendant or his counsel with the charge that he was proceeding by an unconstitutional mode — that lie had filed an information 1496ex-officio,1495ex-offlcio,The Attorney-General
1499 thought, that in order to form a correct opinion on the present question, it would be proper to inquire what was the state of the proceedings referred to by the motion. Bills had been found by grand juries against individuals for various libels; the judges of the courts of law had held these defendants to bail; and now the House of Commons was called upon to address the Crown to stop these prosecutions without any inquiry into their merits. The hon. and learned member here entered into a review of the proceedings against Dolby, and contended that the society had, in the course of the proceedings, clone nothing which was not justified by law. The stock of Dolby was not demanded; he was only desired to give up the remaining
1499The Solicitor General
1503 rejoiced to observe the good humour which now, prevailed on the other side of the House; but to which the gentlemen opposite appeared, at times, to be entirely strangers. He trusted, that in the next session of parliament they would be equally pleasant. They appeared to have receded his a considerable degree from that, political and constitutional Utopia which they had originally set up. The hon. gentleman had given a very proper rebuke to the noble member for Bedfordshire, who
1503The Marquis of Londonderry
 in rising to move that the House adjourn till Tuesday next, begged to observe, what it might be agreeable for their constituents to know, viz. that upon an average the House had sat eight hours and forty minutes daily, for every sitting day throughout the session. This was exclusive of the business done in the morning in the committees. So that whatever might be the opinion of hon. members opposite, or of persons out of doors, it was plain, that if the House of Commons did no good, it was not for want of labour.The Marquis of Londonderry,
l.1504 said, it must give great satisfaction to the House to learn, that the reform in the department of the receivers-general of the land-tax had been
l.1504Mr. Brougham
14981497 said, that in his opinion, a man might with perfect consistency approve of the other societies alluded to incidentally, and yet disapprove of that under the notice of the House; as the distinction between them was as clear as possible. Some offences were, and ought to be prosecuted, though many a man would feel a repugnance at having his name mentioned in the same line with such an offence, even as its prosecutor. The argument drawn from the societies to prosecute for thefts could not apply to the present association. How was it possible that a man's feelings could be so interested in the case of a theft as they would be upon a question purely political? Party feeling would interfere, and even the jury become contaminated with it, by the encouragement of such a society as this. The remedy proposed would be an aggravation of the mischief; for, as had been well-observed, it would lead to the pollution of the very fountain of justice. The attorney-general bad said, he did not see that members of this association were disqualified to sit as jurymen on prosecutions instituted by the Society. The Court of King's Bench, however, had declared them unfit, and had ordered, that the fact of a juryman's being a member should be a good cause of challenge. He who subscribed to bring on an indictment, was certainly an improper person to try it. In the case of a felony, if a man had subscribed money to find the bill of indictment, this would be a good cause for challenging him as a juror and yet in such a case it was not likely that any thing had occurred from the act itself to rouse the passions. But the Bridge-street association was founded in party feeling alone. Even their enthusiasm, however
14981497Mr. Brougham
l.1501 said, that as it seemed to be the general wish, he would not take the sense of the House upon the subjects With respect to the argument, that those who were aggrieved by the proceedings of the society would have their remedy as law, he would ask who were the persons from whom redress was to be sought?
l.1501Mr. Whitbread
nolle prosequi148914881487 observed, that though he should consider himself deserving of blame if he at any time unnecessarily forced himself on the attention of the House, yet he should think himself still more worthy of censure if he allowed a subject like that which he was about to bring under its consideration to pass unnoticed. He had been in expectation that some gentleman distinguished for his talents and legal knowledge would have attacked the misnamed Constitutional Association. He had been disappointed, and had therefore resolved not to let the session pass without calling the attention of the House to a society as odious in principle as it had proved itself malignant in practice. A difficulty existed in opposing this society, because, though acting in disregard of every principle of justice and equity, it insidiously took shelter under some quibble of the law. He wished to avoid speaking in rash terms of this Society. He would allow that there were many persons of exalted rank connected with it. He believed, however, that these individuals had been induced to become members in consequence of the false title which it had assumed. He was sure that if, instead of being called the Bridge-street Constitutional Association for opposing disloyal principles, it had received the title of the Birchin-lane Plot, the names of the individuals to whom he had alluded would never have been seen in connexion with it. No person of the least understanding could fail to perceive that this society was set on foot only by a few attorneys, for their own private emolument. He did not blame these attorneys for having regard to their own interest; but he had a right to quarrel with them when they
nolle prosequi148914881487Mr. S. Whitbread
1502 said, that as this bill went to appropriate all the money voted during the session, he would take the present opportunity of making a few observations on the business which had occurred in that House since they last commenced their sittings. He wished to express the satisfaction he felt on account of the late unanimous vote in favour of retrenchment. His hon. friend, the member for Aberdeen, had been repeatedly taunted by ministers, in consequence of his exertions; but they had at last been compelled to agree to a resolution, which would, he hoped, be followed up. This advantage had been gained by adhering to the forms of the House, and by pursuing the path marked out by past experience. At the commencement of the session, he had said that committees of supply had, for a long time, been a mere farce, but that they should no longer continue so. His assertion had been verified. The subject of the supplies had been so fully discussed, that the great body of the people of England were acquainted with them, and a pledge of pursuing a system of economical reform in the next session, had been obtained from ministers. This question of economical reform was nearly allied to political reform; because, when it was properly pursued, it brought them to the strong holds of corruption, that great enemy of property, of liberty, and of law. He differed from his noble friend (the marquis of Tavistock), when he asserted, that the exertions of the hon. member for Aberdeen had effected nothing. He agreed with his noble friend, that the power of the Crown had greatly increased in that House; but still he was of opinion that the freedom of speech which they enjoyed, and the publicity which was given to their debates, were advantages of the highest importance; and from these, if from any causes, they might look forward to economical reform in the next session. The House was, he thought, in progress to do a great dear of good.
1502Mr. Creevey
1494 said, that the great objection to the constitutional and all similar associations was, that they could not exist without becoming a seminary for spies and informers. The person who could condescend to purchase a book from which he was to derive emolument on the conviction of the seller, would be ready to act even a more degraded part. If the book were not to be had for asking once, it would be asked for twice; and they might depend upon it, that the informer would not leave the shop without acquiring that which would afterwards prove a source of emolument to him. This was an objection to all societies, but pressed with greater force on the Constitutional Society than any others. The learned member dwelt on the illegality of a society, possessing large funds, and established, not for the punishment, but for the ruin of such booksellers as fell under their lash. The power thus placed in the hands of individuals was most enormous, and the number of bills presented by the association that had already been thrown out was enough to excite grave suspicion. It was impossible to calculate upon obtaining an unbiassed grand jury to find the bill, and an impartial petty jury to find the verdict, while the society extended in such infinite ramifications of power and influence. As to the formation of a counter-association, nothing could be more injurious to the administration of public justice than for two parties to be constantly running a race with each other, endeavouring to pour their several friends into the jury-box, and thus to gain a triumph over the law. The association had been properly considered
1494Mr. Denman
1493 expressed his regret that the learned doctor should have thought it necessary to go out of his way to attack a society which had effected great good, and of which he was proud to avow himself a zealous supporter. The learned doctor seemed to know as little of the object as he did of the proceedings of that society. If he would point out any officer of that society who had conducted himself in the manner described, he would undertake that he should be dismissed immediately. One of its objects had been to stop the sale of obscene pamphlets and prints which had formerly found their way into the seminaries of the young of both sexes; in what manner that object had been effected, the House would judge when he informed them, that out of 45 prosecutions which the society had thought fit to institute, not one had failed. Another of its objects had been to put a stop to the profanation of the sabbath. In that pursuit, though not so successful as could have been wished, it had still been able to do much good. With regard to the motion before the House, had there been greater licentiousness of the press than existed at present? indeed it was perfectly insupportable. Calumnies and detractions were so prevalent, that an individual was obliged to be either perpetually contradicting them, or to submit to a belief of the truth of them. Where, then, was the man who would not rejoice in seeing the laws again appealed to for redress? So far from thinking it to be unconstitutional that individuals should endeavour to enforce the; laws against the licentiousness of the press, he thought that it was most congenial with the spirit of the constitution. How far the Constitutional Association had acted properly or improperly in their endeavour thus to enforce the law, he did not know; though he would not deny that the power which they had assumed was liable to abuse. He thought that it was the duty of a member of parliament, who saw the number of detestable publications now in circulation, to call upon the law officers of the Crown to enforce the laws against them, which he thought they had not done. The merit of a society like the Constitutional Association
1493Mr. Wilberforce
1500 could not concur with his hon. and learned friend in pronouncing this society to be legal: he thought it usurped the functions of the attorney-general, in whose hands, prosecutions for political offences were vested by the government, and where he thought the discretion of instituting them would be exercised with more coolness than this society was likely to use on such subjects. Any set of men arrogating to themselves such a power of prosecuting for political offences assumed an unconstitutional power, which he considered dangerous, and which he could not easily be persuaded was legal. He meant to pronounce no conclusive opinion until he had all the facts before him; but he must deny that the judges, as the matter stood, had concluded any thing upon the point of law; nor, indeed, did, he know in what form their judgment could be summarily had upon so large a question. He thought there was a great distinction to be drawn
1500Mr. Scarlett
1486 said, that what had occurred was quite sufficient to show the inexpediency of taking such prosecutions out of the hands of the attorney-general, and committing them to the care of a common attorney. Under the existing law, booksellers were constantly liable to prosecutions for libel in cases in which their innocence of intention was completely manifest. The persons employed by the Constitutional Association might go and purchase, or order a book from a bookseller wholly ignorant of its contents; but who would nevertheless thereby render himself subject to a criminal prosecution. The time was sufficiently distant to allow of the calm consideration of a case of that kind which occurred in the early period of the French revolution. He alluded to the case of Mr. Johnson, who had been prosecuted and punished for selling a seditious libel. Mr. Johnson was a publisher of classical and other elegant; works. Mr. Gilbert Wakefield wrote a political pamphlet, which he tendered to Mr. Johnson to print, but with which Mr. Johnson refused to have any thing to do. Having been printed else-
1486Mr. Scarlett
1492 insisted upon the necessity of preventing the exposure of obscene prints in the windows of shops; and stated, that they were frequently
1492Sir M. Cholmeley
 said, he must protest against all that the hon. member had said respecting the court of session as being totally groundless; and he must add, that the hon. member had made but an ill use of his discretion in bringing this subject forward as he had done. He denied that the judges superseded the law by acts of sederunt; and with respect to desuetude, he understood it applied only to certain Scottish laws, and not to any British act of parliament. He had no doubt this petition would turn out to be one of that class of which they had already seen but too many.Lord Binning
1510 could not allow the imputations thrown out against his relation to pass unanswered. The hon. member might think that abuses existed in Scotland, and wish to reform them; but was it fair to make such an attack upon the
1510Lord Binning
 should not have risen, if it had not been for the extraordinary expression which had escaped from the hon. gentlemen, as to the little credit and popularity which her majesty retained. He was surprised the hon. member had dared to make such an assertion, when he must have known that ninety-nine out of every hundred of his own constituents were strongly biassed in favour of her majesty. So far from her majesty's popularity being upon the wane, it had even increased since the conclusion of the infamous investigation into her conduct. Her majesty, he was sure, would not be dictated to by any person, as to the course which she ought to pursue. He had, however, no hesitation in saying, that it was the decided intention of the Queen to attend the coronation, notwithstanding any thing that had occurred, or that might occur, before a particular tribunal.Mr. Alderman Wood
 complained of the hardship of allowing the judges to declare which laws should be held in force, and which in desuetude.Lord A. Hamilton
 contended, that the Education bill was an attack upon religious liberty, and he hoped it would be manfully resisted by those who were interested. The dissenters were to be taxed for the support of schools, the teachers of which were to be chosen by the established clergy, and who would teach in a manner which would be agreeable to that clergy. The accuracy of the returns in the digest had been disputed, and with reason; for the Sunday schools were almost entirely overlooked. He should oppose the measure, as its tendency and effect would obviously be, to throw the whole education of the country into the hands of the established church, to the exclusion and injury of the dissenting interests.Mr. Bright
1514 said, his hon. friend had no right to assume that there existed on the part of the advocates of the measure the least disposition to do any thing in
1514Mr. Brougham
151315121511 said, he entirely concurred with his hon. friend, as to the soundness of the principles laid down by the commissioners. Nothing could be more sound in the present state of Ireland, than that any system of education 'attempted to be made general there, should avoid all suspicion of an intention of proselytism. The state of the Established
151315121511Mr. Brougham
 lamented the introduction of such a subject at a time when no minister was in the House to notice it. He trusted that her majesty would not be so ill-advised as to pursue the plan which the hon. gentleman had chalked out for her. She had already had ill-advisers enough about her; and he trusted, for the sake of the little credit and popularity which she still had left her, she would not interfere in the manner alluded to.Mr. Butterworth
 conceived that nothing could be more ill-advised than her majesty's intention of disturbing the coronation.Mr. Butterworth
 said, that if the hon. gentleman intended his observations to apply to him, he could only inform him that he never had the honour, and most probably never should of being one of her majesty's advisers.Mr. Hume
 said, he conceived it to be most important that the country should understand, before the prorogation of parliament, how her majesty was to be placed at the ensuing coronation, and that every precaution should be taken that was calculated to prevent the peace of the capital from being disturbed upon that occasion. If any of his majesty's ministers had been in the House, he should have felt it his duty to have gone at greater length into this subject than he then felt inclined to do: but being one of those individuals whom a noble marquis on a former night had accused of having by their exertions risked the peace of the country, he could not allow himself to be placed in such a situation again as would compel him to have recourse to similar proceedings, without protesting most loudly against it. From the nature of the court to which her majesty's claims had been submitted, he could not draw any favourable augury as to their decision; though he was convinced that her lawyers had made out as clear a right for her coronation as existed at present for the king's. Taking for granted, then, that the decision of that court would be against the existence of the claim, the point which he wished to ascertain was this—whether ministers intended to persevere in their, system of insulting, persecuting, and oppressing the Queen upon all occasions, or whether they intended to assign her a place among the other members of the royal family at the ensuing coronation. That her majesty would attend in person at that ceremonial, he entertained not the slightest doubt. From what he knew of her spirit and resolution, he was convinced that she would be present at it if not as a part of it, at least to prevent the rights of future queens-consort from being compromised and degraded in her person It was upon that account that he now gave notice, that he should to-morrow submit to the House a motion on the subject,Mr. Hume
 said, that so wedded was the noble lord to the abuses which existed in Scotland that he believed, if they were shown to be as black as ink, it would be impossible to induce the noble lord to remove them. He repeated, that the charges against the lord president Hope were true, and admitted of no justification. He had on one occasion ordered a person from the bar, declaring that acts of sederunt should supersede the law of the land.Mr. Hume
1509 rose to present a petition from a Mr. Jameson, a Writer to the signet in Scotland, who complained of having suffered severely from acts of Sederunt in the Court of Session. By these acts the court had the power of superseding acts of parliament. It was impossible for a suitor in that court to know what act was in force, or in disuse; for, strange to say, it rested entirely with the judges to declare which laws were in force, and which were in desuetude. Nay, one judge of the court had declared the clause of a bill to be in force, while another held that it was not. If, then, the law was held to be a lottery in England, how much more uncertain was it in Scotland. The commissioners of inquiry had stated, that the grievance now complained of should be inquired into; but no further mention was made of it. He had last year presented a petition from a Mr. Hay, on the same subject. It was the opinion of Blackstone, that if the judicial and legislative functions were united in the judges, the lives, liberties, and properties of the people would be at the mercy of a few individuals. It was only necessary to put a wig and a gown on any individual in order to qualify him to give lectures on public matters. We had many instances of judges going out of their way, for the purpose of delivering opinions on matters not connected with their duty. Witness the conduct of sir J. Silvester, who, in delivering a charge to a jury, went out of his way for the purpose of praising the Bridge-street Association. He thought it ill became men who were elevated to such high rank by the monarch, thus to go out of their way for such purposes. The magistrates of Montrose
1509Mr. Hume
l.l.l. in rising to move for the I4th Report of the Commissioners on the State of Education in Ireland, said, that even in an economical point of view, the subject to which the Report referred was of some consequence, for since the Union no less than 1,200,000l.l.l.Mr. Spring Rice,
1516 rose to submit the motion of which he had given notice yesterday. He began by saying, that we were now within eight days of the coronation, and as yet it was not known in what situation her majesty was to be placed, with regard to that ceremony. Surely ministers would not renew the agitation of the public mind by the exclusion of her majesty; for he
1516Mr. Hume
54 rose for the purpose of moving an Address of Thanks to his majesty. He commenced by expressing his earnest hope that their lordships would concur unanimously in the motion which he was about to propose. He felt most inadequate to the task which he had undertaken, but it gave him confidence
54The Earl of Belmore
1716151413 observed, that as the noble earl had not opposed any thing in the address, but only objected to it for what it did not contain; as, subject to this objection, there was no statement in the Speech from the throne which the noble earl did not approve, it was not necessary for him to detain their lordships by entering into any detailed reply. As, however, he might be supposed to acquiesce in the statements of the noble earl if he allowed his speech to pass entirely unnoticed, he thought it necessary to say a few words on some of the topics to which the noble earl had called the attention of the House. In noticing the sentiments of loyalty alluded to in the Speech from the throne, the noble earl had been pleased to intimate that the universal opinion of the country was, that the present system of government ought to be changed. He had not, however, explained what he meant by the system of government, or what was the nature of the change supposed to be required. He was ready to allow that at public meetings a distinction was to be made between expressions of loyalty to the throne and approbation of the measures of government. That the former did not include the latter he fully admitted, and he hoped the time never would come in this country, in which the vices and errors of the government were not separated from the throne, and the distinction the noble earl contended for maintained. The noble earl would, however, find himself much mistaken in the opinion he had advanced. Instead of wishing for a change, it was certain that all the thinking part of the country approved of the system on which the government was conducted, and would consider any departure from it as leading to inevitable ruin. He was not prepared to say
1716151413The Earl of Liverpool
23moralmoral222120"But had not always where with all.""The doctor understood the call,1918 said, it was not his intention to enter into a wide field of discussion upon the general state of the country. His object originally was, to put two or three very simple questions to the noble earl on the other side of the House; and he should have confined himself to those questions, if it was not for the topics that had been introduced. At the same time he should avoid entering into any review of the general system of the government. The noble lord (Liverpool) had professed not to understand what was meant by a system of government; perhaps he did not. It was natural enough that those who were in the habit of adopting measures one day, and abandoning them the next, should find out that they had no system whatever, and consequently be puzzled by expressions which seemed to imply that they had. His noble friend, however (earl Grey), had marked out distinctly, as he thought, the meaning which he attached to the words. What he meant by a total change of system was, a restoration of the confidence which used formerly to exist between the people and their rulers; a restoration of the old English homely good-humoured government, which had been so long abandoned, and so much impaired by the practices of the present administration. Such was the change to which his noble friend had alluded. It was not his intention, at present, to point out how a contrary system might be adopted, but there was one part of the speech from the throne, upon which, notwithstanding the explicit commentary of the mover of the address, he should feel that he was not acting as an honest man if he did not express
23moralmoral222120"But had not always where with all.""The doctor understood the call,1918Lord Holland
 observed, in reply to the noble baron, that the questions he had put involved subjects of such magnitude that he could not attempt to answer them without going into a detail, which he was not prepared to do at that moment. If, however, the noble lord should think proper to call for specific information on any of the points to which he had referred, and should give notice of a motion to that effect, he would be ready on any such occasion to go into the subject, and to answer the inquiries of the noble lord. At present he hoped their lordships would see that he could not well go into such a detail.The Earl of Liverpool
24 said, that the questions which he had put to the noble earl could not excite discussion at present, or require that detail which the noble earl seemed to imagine. He would, however, put them in a shape where they might be answered by a single "Ay" or "No." And, first,
24Lord Holland
 again observed, that the present was not the moment to go into such details, but that he would be ready to meet the noble lord on the subject on any future occasion, when he should think proper to submit a motion respecting it.The Earl of Liverpool
 after this refusal, wished the noble lord joy of belonging to an administration whose affairs were so complicated, as that the head of it could not give an answer, ay or no, to a few plain questions.Lord Holland,
25 said, that undoubtedly that man was to be regarded as the greatest benefactor of his country, who could take the most certain means of preventing the calamities which might befal it. If, then, we looked back upon the state of the affairs of Europe for the last twenty-five years, who was to be considered as the man capable of conferring the greatest benefit upon his country? Not the noble general opposite, who had succeeded in putting an end to the war, but the individual who, at its commencement, possessed the means of altogether preventing the war. He congratulated the House and the country, that the noble baron possessed the means of preventing a war, which by many persons was considered likely to take place, not by bringing into action the military power of the country, but by a few words in the speech from the throne, and, what was still more extraordinary, by an application for the payment of a debt! Surely the noble baron must be aware, that the only effectual way of enforcing the payment of a debt must be, an application from a general at the head of an army. It certainly appeared to him, that every thing had been done by this government, which, under the circumstances, was proper to be done. The answer which they had given to the Austrian government, was this, "We sincerely hope you will not go to war; and if you do, we will give you no assistance." The noble baron had dwelt much upon the situation to which
25Lord Eilenborough
26 said, that he could have no objection to answer the question of the noble lord. The language which this country ought to have used to Austria, should hate been plain and unequivocal-We should have declared explicitly, that we would take no part in such a war; and we should have expressed, openly, in the face of Europe, not only our disapprobation of the war, but of the principle of the war. The noble baron had said, that the most effectual way of addressing an emperor was, by a general at the head of an army; but he forgot that this was no longer the case, when that emperor was looking for assistance and support from the party addressing him. Notwithstanding the surprise expressed by the noble baron, he saw nothing so preposterous in supposing, that if, instead of the paragraph which the speech now contained, there had been one, lamenting that any of the allies should think of interfering with the rights of independent nations, the conduct of Austria would have been influenced by such a declaration. For his own part, he believed it would have prevented Austria from marching; at all events, they who thought that it would not have kept her for a long time hesitating and
26Lord Holland
 congratulated the noble baron and the country, since, notwithstanding the lamentable effects which he had ascribed to the policy pursued in this country for the last twenty-five years, he still thought its moral character stood so high, that a solemn declaration of its opinion must be imperative upon the greatest military power in Europe.Lord Ellenborough
 said, that the noble baron had totally misapprehended what had fallen from him. He had never dreamt of ascribing any such miraculous effect to the moral character of the country.Lord Holland
 said, it might not be amiss to observe, that if one noble lord were Austria and the other England, it would be extremely difficult to determine, whether they might or might not be prevented from going to war [a laugh].The Lord Chancellor
6 rose to second the address, but spoke in so low a tone of voice that little of what he said could be collected below the bar.—He remarked, that as the noble earl who had just set down had done full justice, in submitting the Address, to the statements in his majesty's Speech, he should not trouble their lordships with many words. On the question of our foreign connexions, he fully agreed in the sentiments expressed by the noble earl; for, notwithstanding the pacific assurances of foreign powers, it became this country to observe their proceedings with a vigilant eye. He hoped at the same time, that
6Lord Prudhoe
121110987 in rising after the noble mover and seconder of the address, intimated that it was not his intention to offer any opposition, in consequence of what had fallen from these noble lords, or of what was contained in the address itself. He must say, however, that he could not concur in the address, because, though he had no objection to make to what it contained, both it and the Speech from the throne, fell far short of what he thought ought to have been found in them. In the Speech there was a total absence of those explanations on the state of the country which were to be expected from the throne at a period like the present. The noble earl who moved the address anticipated their lordships' concurrence in the congratulations offered to the throne on account of those expressions of loyalty and attachment recently received by his majesty, from all quarters of the country. In this anticipation the noble lord was perfectly justified; because, whatever differ-
121110987Earl Grey,
105 rose, to present the petition of the county of Kent. His lordship made some observations on the manner in which sheriffs of counties were selected, and on the way in which they took upon themselves to refuse their assent to public meetings. In the present in-
105The Earl of Darnley
 observed, that the sheriffs were appointed, if he might use the expression, in so judicial away, that the influence of the Crown had nothing to do with it. In the first place, three gentlemen for each county were returned by the judges, upon their oaths, to the privy council sitting in the court of Exchequer, and afterwards, on the appointment, the first name of the three was invariably taken, unless sufficient reasons were alleged on behalf of the party to alter that course of nomination. There was, therefore, no ground for imputing that the sheriffs of counties were in any respect influenced by the Crown in the exercise of that discretion, with regard to calling county meetings, which undoubtedly belonged to them.The Earl of Liverpool
 in explanation, said, that he did not mean to impute that the influence of the Crown was exercised in the appointment of sheriffs, but merely to observe, that, under other circumstances, they might be made the instruments of the Crown to obstruct, very materially, the right of petitioning.The Earl of Darnley,
106 said, that, as the late conduct of sheriffs was before the House, he wished to say a few words on a most trifling instance of their partiality. He alluded to the conduct of that officer at the late meeting of the county of Chester, at which the sheriff took upon himself to determine in what terms an address from the county should be framed. An address called a loyal address was moved. He (lord G.)who attended as an humble individual, moved an amendment to that address, containing similar expressions of loyalty and attachment to the throne, but accompanied with expressions of disapprobation of ministers. The sheriff refused to receive the amendment. He decided that it was not relevant to the object of the meeting, and declared that he would not put it. The sheriff did not stop here; but afterwards took upon himself to assert, that the original address was carried; and refused, though repeatedly pressed, to grant the only means of
106Earl Grosvenor
 wished to call their lordships' attention to that part of the petition which prayed for the restoration of her majesty to all her rights. The House of Commons had already declared, that the proceedings against her majesty were derogatory from the dignity of the crown, and injurious to the best interests of the country. He hoped they would follow up this resolution in the only way in which it could be effectually followed up; by taking such measures as would tend to restore her majesty to all her rights, and, in the first place, would take steps to reverse that measure by which it was attempted to deprive her of them, namely, the erasure of her name from the Liturgy. The House might remember that, on a former occasion, he had declared his opinion that the erasure of her majesty's name from the Liturgy was the foundation of all the ulterior proceedings against the queen. He had witnessed with much satisfaction that men of all parties, forgetting private partialities in their love for their country, had condemned those proceedings. He would make one effort more to restore tranquillity to the country.The Earl of Darnley
107 said, he had a petition to present from the county of Wilts. The meeting was convened by the sheriff on a requisition most respectably signed by persons of every class in the county. The petition strongly stated the loyalty of the petitioners, and their attachment to the constitution. These sentiments were also accompanied with a strong opinion on what had taken place
107The Marquis of Lansdown
 observed, that some of the petitioners appeared to petition in ignorance of the real nature of the question respecting which they prayed the House. There was no question now about restoration of rights. The object of the bill of Pains and Penalties was to deprive her majesty of all those privileges immunities and exemptions which appertained to her as queen consort; and that bill being thrown out, of course her majesty's rights remained as they were before, untouched and undiminished.Lord Ellenborough
 said, that the noble lord might have made up his mind upon the question as to the right of the queen to have her name inserted in the Liturgy, that no such right existed, but undoubtedly there were men high in the law and eminent in station, who were of opinion, that the queen had a legal right to have her name inserted in the Liturgy. It was, therefore, quite natural that the people, seeing that her majesty's name was excluded from the Liturgy, and witnessing besides, that her majesty was refused was palace, and that no establishment had hitherto been given to her, should petition for the interference of that House, to have her majesty restored to those rights which appertained to her as queen consort, and which had been enjoyed by all preceding queen consorts.Lord Holland
 admitted, that the question respecting the insertion of the queen's name in the Liturgy was liable I to very considerable doubt and difficulty, and though he might have formed an opinion upon it, he was well aware that it was a question of great delicacy and difficulty. All he meant to say was, that the queen's rights as queen consort were not all affected.Lord Ellenborough
108 rose to present the petition of the county of Hants. The meeting at which this petition was voted
108The Earl of Carnarvon
110 admitted the propriety of the noble duke's reasons for not signing the counter requisition, but I he confessed, that he heard, with some dismay, a declaration by a member of the government, that a county meeting called for the purpose of addressing the king and petitioning parliament, was considered as a farce. He was afraid that it was a part of that system which ministers had long pursued, and which would tend to persuade the people, that it was in vain to expect from them a substitution of conciliation for threats and restraints. The noble duke might think that the loyalty of the county was sufficiently expressed by the first address; but was it not strange to say, because a loyal address had been secretly circulated and signed, that therefore there was to be no public county meeting? The declaration expressed the attachment of those who signed it to the constitution. The noble duke approved of that declaration; but he would be glad to know how far he conceived himself pledged to support that constitution; because if any thing was more essential than another to the preservation of the constitution, it was, that county meetings should be free and open. But it seemed that it was not this popular part of the constitution which it was the object of ministers and their friends to support. What sort of loyalty was that which was displayed in the declaration? and how was it got up? A sort of pastoral letter had been sent to every clergyman in the county, requesting that body to use their utmost exertions to obtain signatures. This was not the first time (but he hoped it would be the last) that men who ought to keep aloof from political contests had been thus employed. The deputy sheriff of the county signed the letters as secretary to the Pitt club; so that when the Pitt club had made their collection of signatures, their lordships were to be told, that to hold a county meeting was a farce. The noble duke had also stated, that the member for the county could not obtain a hearing. This assertion was not correct. There was nothing extraordinary in certain tokens of disapprobation being expressed on the address of a speaker in any assembly. It was what occurred in the other House of parliament, and even in this; and such expressions of feeling
110The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, he subscribed most cordially to every word which had fallen from his noble friend. The noble duke had stated, that the counter-requisitionists conceived there was no necessity for calling the county together again. The complaint on the part of the inhabitants of the county, however, was, that they had not been called together at all. Who was it that set up the opinion, that the loyal declaration expressed entirely the sentiments of the county? It might be the counter-requisitionists, but he trusted not the noble duke. A certain declaration was privately circulated, of which no person who signed it had power to alter or modify a single syllable, any more than the clergyman who circulated it had power to alter any of the thirty-nine articles which they subscribed. Yet, according to the explanation of the counter-requisitionists, the sense of the county had been sufficiently taken in this private manner. For this reason, and because one of the members for the county had been prevented from being heard, the constitutional meeting of the county had been stigmatized as a farce. It was with astonishment that he heard this term of reproach applied to the exercise of one of the most valuable rights of the subject—the more valuable because it was exercised in the face of day, and gave every individual in the county the opportunity of canvassing freely and independently the state of public affairs. This right had not only been long exercised in tins country, but, was a right, the exercise of which was encouraged when the sentiments expected to be I expressed were agreeable to those in power. That kind of assembly, which was now called a farce was, a year ago, the only regular and constitutional mode through which the throne had been approached with addresses of congratulation. Did any of his majesty's ministers, then, call these meetings a farce? Such meetings would never be so stigmatized, when their proceedings accorded with their opinions and wishes.The Marquis of Lansdown
112 observed, that the noble duke had expressed, in the address, his attachment to the constitution; but what he had said in that House explained what he meant by his attachment to it. There was a distinction in the mode in which he wished the constitutional opinion of the people to be expressed. An address secretly got up and privately circulated, was a grave and commendable mode; but attachment to the constitution expressed at a public meeting was a farce. What displeased the noble duke was, that persons on one side could not obtain a hearing. But his noble friend had explained this. The meeting was public, and all parties might have come to it. It semed, however, that every thing was fair when the parties were secured by lock and key, and when no one who disapproved of their proceedings could get near them; but when public discussion was invited, and the doors thrown open to all persons both friendly and adverse, then the meeting was a farce. The declaration mentioned by the noble duke purported to express the opinion of the county; but as it was only the opinion of individuals, he could not admit it to be what the noble duke described it, but considered it a fraudulent attempt to misrepresent the opinion of the county. He did not say that county meetings were entirely without defects. There was nothing in the constitution of this or of any other country that might not be liable to objection.
112Lord Holland
113 said, that his noble friend had been misunderstood. He never meant to treat with contempt county meetings, which he knew were a part of the ancient constitution of the country. What he objected to was, that when they were so assembled and so controlled by a mob, their proceedings must necessarily be a farce; such meetings were not meetings of freeholders. Undoubtedly, county meetings, if they could be conducted in practice according to their theoretic object, must be most useful. In that sense, he admitted, that no part of the constitution was more valuable; but they were liable to great abuse, and when not held in county hall, but in the open air,
113The Earl of Liverpool
vi et armis,of coups de tháatre; said, he believed his majesty's ministers were extremely fond vi et armis,of coups de tháatre;The Duke of Leinster
115 said, that the noble earl opposite had no objection to county meetings, where an opportunity was afforded, of hearing the arguments which might be urged on both sides, and I entering into a calm, fair and impartial
115The Earl of Blesinton
 strongly reprobated the attempt which had been made to cast a reproach upon one of the most respectable meetings he had ever attended. He hoped the noble duke would learn to appreciate better the character of English meetings in general; and that he would not, without better information, attempt to degrade a respectable public meeting of an English county by designating it as a clamorous mob.The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, he had heard with regret the expression which the noble duke had made use of, because he was sure it would be taken advantage of on of doors. He, however, did not understand that expression in the sense in which it had been taken by other noble lords, or he would have agreed with them in the censure they had bestowed on it. In his opinion, the expression was not meant to apply to all county meetings, but only to those at which it was impossible any rational discussion could take place. It was with deep regret he felt himself compelled to say, that the county meetings which had lately been held deserved all that the noble duke had said of them. This was occasioned, not by the persons who attended those meetings, but by those who absented themselves from them. If the 9,000 persons who had signed the counter-declaration had attended the meeting, they would have had a majority, or at least they would have given a different complexion to the meeting. If the ancient practice were restored, county meetings would be very different from what they were at present. Addresses would then have greater weight than they have now, when they are agreed to after—and not at the meetings.Lord Ellenborough
 said, he had not the least difficulty in answering the question of the noble earl. The paper to which he referred was, he believed, an incorrect copy of a real paper which did exist. However, he had no difficulty in stating, in the first place, that there were no treaties of the nature alluded to in that paper. In the next place, he was able to assure the noble earl, that the court of London was no party to any proceedings now in progress with reference to Naples. In consequence of a paper, similar to that referred to by the noble earl, a paper had been addressed by this government to the difterent powers of Europe, which he should have no objection to lay before the House. That paper would explain the whole policy pursued by this government with reference to the affairs of Naples. He repeated, that he had not the slightest objection to the production of that document, though he could wish, as a matter of convenience, that the noble earl would not move for it that evening.The Earl of Liverpool
 had no difficulty in assuring the noble earl, that the paper he had referred to would give a complete contradiction to any inferences, calculating upon the assistance of this government. There, were some arrangements which prevented its immediate production; but he should be ready to lay it before the House in the course of the next week.The Earl of Liverpool
 expressed himself perfectly satisfied with the answer of the noble earl. He certainly should not move for the production of the paper to-night, after what had fallen from the noble earl; but he hoped that it would be speedily laid before the House, and he confidently expected, from the answer of the noble earl, that that paper would contradict the inferences drawn by the courts of Peters-burgh, Berlin, and Vienna; and show, that they had no right whatever to count upon the co-operation or assistance of this government.Earl Grey
114 did not expect, after what had passed in that House, last session, on the subject of public meetings, to have heard any reflection cast on county meetings, especially as, when the measures for abridging the liberties of the people were under discussion, the noble lord contended, that county meetings called under the authority of the sheriff, would henceforth have greater weight. But, notwithstanding all that the noble earl had then said in support of county meetings, and the advantage of holding them under the authority of the sheriffs, some of those sheriffs refused to call meetings, and others conducted themselves with the grossest partiality when they were called. The noble earl had explained the manner in which sheriffs were appointed; but he was surprised to find, that he had not attempted to say any thing satisfactory on the discretion they assumed of refusing to call meetings. He should be sorry to attribute to a person of the noble duke's character a wish to depreciate any part of the constitution, though his words certainly had that tendency. The noble duke did not object to meetings which both parties called, and where there were opportunities for discussion. But was not the meeting in question legally called? Was not the requisition respectably signed? and was not the object legal? His noble friend had described the meeting as most respectable. The objection of the noble duke applied to a circumstance which was unavoidable. County meetings often did wrong in not patiently hearing
114Earl Grey
118117 rose, to call the attention of the noble lord opposite, to a subject connected with our foreign policy. He had been unsuccessful in his attempt to obtain answers to the questions which he had put to the noble lord on a former night, which led him to fear that he should obtain no information on the present occasion. The noble lord must be aware that a circular letter had lately been addressed to different continental states, and among others, to the senate of Hamburgh. It was in the following terms:—118117Earl Grey
116 presented a petition from the county of Bedford, praying for the restoration of her majesty's name
116The Duke of Bedford
 presented a similar petition from the city of Litchfield. He had received a protest against it, which had been framed at a secret meeting: and he could not but express his regret at observing the names of nine clergymen, at the head of whom was the dean of Litchfield, subscribed to a protest, of which, the object was, to exclude her majesty from the prayers of the people. He was sorry to be compelled to say, that the conduct of the clergy throughout the country had exposed that body to merited reprobation. He had no hesitation in declaring, that the petition contained the real sentiments, and almost unanimous opinions of the inhabitants of the city of Litchfield.Viscount Anson
 said, he held in his hand a petition from the burgh of Banff, in Scotland, praying that parliament would oppose the institution of any further proceedings against the queen, and endeavour to procure the restoration of her majesty to all her rights. He observed, that he could pledge himself for the petition being properly and respectfully worded. The noble and learned lord also presented petitions to the same effect from the incorporated trades of Dumfries, the incorporated trades of Arbroath, the town of Montrose, the burgh of Selkirk, the city of Aberdeen, New Deer, in the county of Aberdeen, and from some other places in Scotland; and, finally, the petition of the Lord Mayor and Common Council of the city of London in Common Council assembled.Lord Erskine
109 supposed, that the noble earl had alluded to him, as one of those who had signed the counter-requisition. Now, he did not sign that counter-requisition, and the reason of his refusal to sign it was, that being lord-lieutenant of the county, and besides, a member of the government, he thought his signature, under these circumstances, would have been improper. He must say, however, that he entirely concurred with those who signed the counter-requisition, as to the impropriety of assembling the county. As an address had already been presented to his majesty, signed by 9,000 names, he considered the opinion of the county already expressed, and that it was not necessary to go through the farce of a county meeting. At the meeting which took place, only one side was allowed to be heard. The member for the county, whose view was different from the requisitionists, attended, and
109The Duke of Wellington
111 said, he had not stated that the county had been called before, but had given it as his
111The Duke of Wellington
356355 said, he could have no objection to the referring of the petition to the committee, for the re-appointment of which the noble marquis had given notice, or to any mode in which the subject could be fairly brought under discussion. But what he more particularly rose to notice was, a misapprehension which the noble earl had made respecting a paragraph in the Speech delivered from the throne, on the opening of the session. The noble earl had conceived, that the paragraph was so worded as to imply, that a general improvement had taken place throughout the whole country. This certainly was not the case; the words of the Speech were—"that a considerable improvement has taken place within the last half-year, in several of the most important branches of our commerce and manufactures." After-Wards, referring to the state of the country, it was stated "that in many of the manufacturing districts the distresses which prevailed at the commencement of the last session have greatly abated." There was not, therefore, in the wording of the Speech—and he was equally confident in what he had stated on the first day of the session—any assertion of a general improvement throughout the country, nor had he ever maintained, that very considerable distress did not affect the agricultural and manufacturing interests. With regard to Birmingham arid the surrounding districts, he was aware, that, from whatever cause it might pre-
356355The Earl of Liverpool
360359358357 thought himself bound to notice the character of this petition. From the debt which the country owed to the industry of the district from which it came, and the great
360359358357The Marquis of Lansdown
 could state, from his personal knowledge, that the individuals who had signed the present petition were incapable of putting their names to any facts of which they did not know the reality. He could not help hoping, as far as the foreign trade was concerned, that the committee which sat last year, and which was about to be revived, would secure to the country all attainable advantages. He was therefore glad that the noble earl who had presented the petition had not moved for a new committee, which might have the effect of distracting the labours of the old. Yet he felt desirous, that some committee of the nature proposed by the petitioners should be appointed in that or the other House. He hoped, that the public wish, expressed by numberless petitions, would induce ministers to sanction the appointment of such a committee to investigate the causes of the existing distress, or at least to afford an opportunity of ascertaining what were the circumstances which affected agriculture.Lord Calthorpe
354sss353352351 rose, to present a petition from the merchants, manufacturers, and traders of Birmingham. This petition had been agreed to at a meeting held in August last. The meeting was most numerous and respectable. He was sorry to find, that the statements it contained were completely at variance with those which had been conveyed to parliament from authority, and which had, on the first day of the session, been re-asserted by the noble earl opposite, relative to the improved state of manufactures and the general prospects of amelioration. To that general improvement Birmingham certainly was an exception. The petition stated, that the master manufacturers of Birmingham could not employ their workmen for more than three or four days in the week, and that the wages not
354sss353352351Earl Grey
785ratio justificatoriaralio suasoria784eo ictu sese confecit783782"Sic canibus catulos similes; sic matribus hædos.781 resumed.—He admitted that it would be a gross indecency in any member of that House to allude distinctly to any subject of royal guilt, without sufficient knowledge of the actual circumstances attending it. But, where the object was, to keep down the public voice, to stifle the expression of popular feeling, it would indeed be a bad omen of what was to take place hereafter, a sad specimen of what was likely to result from the combination of great powers, if a peer of parliament was to be restrained in his allusions to the conduct and character of foreign potentates. If the British government I should ever be permitted by direct aid, or by connivance, to crush the liberties I of an independent state, then, no doubt, I it would become an order of the House that no such allusions should be made. As the liberty and privileges of parliament however still remained, he would renew his statement, that the present emperor of Russia owed his crown to the murder of his father, or in other words that the crown devolved upon him in consequence of that murder. It brought to his recollection also, that since the time of the czar Peter 1st, no sovereign had ascended the throne of Russia altogether unstained with the blood of his immediate predecessor, or some member of his own family. It was not therefore from this quarter, as he had already said, that Europe ought to receive lessons of morality. Even though it should be contrary to the orders of the House, it might perhaps be excusable, because it was natural in an Englishman to express indignation at occurences of this kind. But these
785ratio justificatoriaralio suasoria784eo ictu sese confecit783782"Sic canibus catulos similes; sic matribus hædos.781Lord Holland
788787786 observed, that if he could agree with the noble baron who last addressed them in the interpretation he had given of the circular of the British government—if he could believe that the neutrality they professed was a hollow and insincere neutrality—if he could suppose that they were inclined to uphold the one party y the sacrifice of the less powerful—he should be disposed to speak of such conduct in terms as indignant as those used by the noble baron. But, taking into his consideration the statements which had been made by the noble earl, and looking at what appeared to have been the conduct of the government, he could not avoid coming to a conclusion different from that come to by the noble baron; he could not but be of pinion, that the course that had been pursued was that which was most conformable to sound policy, under the present difficult circumstances of Europe. The noble baron had complained that ministers had expressed strong disappro-bation of the mode and circumstances by
788787786Lord Ellenborough
789 thought the language of the circular any thing but satisfactory.
789Lord Calthorpe
771770769768767766765764763762761 said, he could assure the noble earl and the House that though he must oppose the motion, he was not sorry it had been brought forward, and that thus an opportunity was afforded him of explaining and defending, if it required explanation or defence, that circular communication on which the noble earl had commented, and also of answering the general observations which he had thrown out. The circular of the 19th of January, he would contend, contained a clear, distinct, and intelligible exposition of the views of his majesty's government on the matter to which it referred, and the principles on which the allies professed to act. Although he had been willing to grant the papers moved for by the noble earl, he could not sanction a motion which was introduced for the purpose of censuring the conduct of government, without appearing to allow the justness of that censure. If any of their lordships should be of opinion, after considering all the circumstances of the case, that the communication made by ministers had been erroneous; or, still more, that it had been criminal; if they believed that its results would be different from what appeared to them to be true policy of this government, those who entertained such sentiments would, of course, vote for the motion. The noble earl had adverted to what passed on this subject on the first day of the session. The noble earl's observation went to this—that the paper laid on the table, and which was dated on the 19th of January was intended for the meeting of parliament, and that the sentiments which it contained should have been made known at an earlier period: therefore, he concluded, that the conduct of ministers, in withholding it for some time, was reprehensible in a greater or less degree. Now, as there had been some misapprehension
771770769768767766765764763762761The Earl of Liverpool
780779778777776775This general muster? and this throng of chiefs?""What mean these mighty armaments?774This general muster? and this throng of chiefs?"What mean these mighty armaments;A question which I never asked before—"There is a question which I yet must ask,773prima facie772 remarked, that, if the noble earl had proved that the conduct of his majesty's government had been in all respects justifiable, and that they had maintained a perfect neutrality towards Naples, he should still, and on narrower grounds, vote in favour of his noble Friend's motion. That motion was for in-
780779778777776775This general muster? and this throng of chiefs?""What mean these mighty armaments?774This general muster? and this throng of chiefs?"What mean these mighty armaments;A question which I never asked before—"There is a question which I yet must ask,773prima facie772Lord Holland
795794793792eo nomine,791790 said, he entirely agreed with those who maintained that it was the object, as it was the policy, of this country to preserve a strict neutrality; but he did think that the noble earl opposite had not succeeded in making it appear that any thing like strict neutrality had been maintained. He was of opinion that no such disposition had been manifested by government in her communications with the two nations principally concerned. Had there, in truth, in any single transaction that could be named, been any thing like an equal measure preserved between those two countries? The noble earl declared, that not disputing but that the case of Naples might form an exception to that general conduct against which the allied powers were in declared hostility, all he would say was, that he would not prejudge the question; but, although the noble earl thus deprecated every thing like prejudication, his line of argument was most inconsistent with that declaration. He had promulgated a disclaimer of certain acts on the part of a foreign government, which had taken upon itself to express a disapprobation of the conduct pursued by the kingdom of Naples: and yet he now maintained, that that foreign state was justified in the manifestation of her disapprobation. As to that interference on the part of the allied sovereigns, it was one of the most flagrant acts of political injustice, one of the most enormous violations of the law of nations, that ever was committed; and the tardy disavowal of this government was made at a time when its very disapprobation of these measures could have no other effect but the encouraging the perpetrators of that violation. And this, the noble earl told them, was a strict neutrality! But when noble lords contrasted the general
795794793792eo nomine,791790Earl Grey
760759758757756755754753752751750749748747746745744743 rose, in pursuance of his notice, to move for such further information as was necessary to obtain a view of all the circumstances by which their lordships might be enabled to form a correct judgment of the conduct of his majesty's ministers relative to Naples. The recent changes which had taken
760759758757756755754753752751750749748747746745744743Earl Grey
 said, he felt himself under the necessity of speaking to order. The language used by the noble baron in allusion to a foreign potentate, with whom this country was now maintaining relations of amity, appeared to him to be both unparliamentary and indecorous. Even during a period of war it would be improper so to speak of any sovereign with whom we might be engaged in hostilities; but thus to characterize the head of a friendly government was an obvious departure from the orders of that House, and the decency of its proceedings.The Earl of Harrowby
799798 said, that so far from wishing to oppose the measures of the noble lord on every occasion, he was very happy when he could, even in the slightest degree, concur with him. Under all the circumstances of the case, he thought the sum proposed that to which her majesty was fairly entitled. Having thus far stated his agreement with the noble lord, he must disclaim any approbation of the other measures of the noble lord in reference to the Queen. He could not agree that the House of Commons had wisely decided that there existed no grounds for censuring ministers. With that vote, however, before him, he could not help concluding, that any proposition which might be made, however aided by the talents of the noble lords near him, would be decided, not by the consideration of how far it was right or wrong in itself, but with reference to the supporting of ministers. Of the success or the motion of which he had given notice he had therefore much reason to despair; and, in addition to that consideration, he must freely confess that he had on this subject been guided by the opinion of individuals with whom he had long had the honour to act, and of others whose late conduct in preferring their duty to the public to their duty to ministers, had done themselves the greatest honour. He had reason to expect that, if he brought forward a motion for restoring the Queen's name to the Liturgy, he should be supported by many of the persons to whom he had alluded. At the same time, considering the discouraging circumstances he had stated, and the doubts which some entertained of its illegality, he was inclined to think that at present no good effect could be expected
799798The Earl of Darnley
 said, that if he had any doubt as to the legality of not inserting the name of her majesty in the Liturgy, he would be the first to move an address to the King, to pray his majesty to restore it to the Liturgy. It was a question upon which he had obtained every information that could be acquired, and to which he had applied the deepest research; and the result was, that he had no doubt whatever of the legality of omitting her majesty's name in the Liturgy; an opinion which, in his mind, the construction of the acts of parliament, and the consideration of what had been done under the authority of those acts, during the whole period since their passing, completely confirmed.The Lord Chancellor
800 observed that the noble earl had intimated that a large secession from the established church had taken place, in consequence of the omission of the Queen's name in the Liturgy. Now, if such accession did exist, of which, however, he was entirely ignorant, he thought it must be owing to political, and not to religious feelings, le was not disposed to undervalue the claim of her majesty to have her name inserted in the Liturgy. It was a claim to something which was important when possessed, and still more important when withheld; but at the same time he must contend, that it was a claim wholly unconnected with religious principles. It was a claim, not for prayer, but to distinction in prayer. Her majesty was prayed for in the Liturgy and in the collects set apart for the royal family. He would, however, admit that to be so prayed for
800The Archbishop of Canterbury
801l. contended, that tie provision made for her majesty by this bill was too large. The reason alleged by the noble earl for granting 50,000801l.Lord Ellenborough
802 agreed, that the grant was too large, and with much of what had been said respecting the conduct of the Queen; nor should he have risen, had it not been for an allusion
802The Earl of Limerick
 was far from thinking, that the annuity granted to her majesty was too great. On the contrary, he thought it too small. Considering that the bill of Pains and Penalties had been withdrawn, it was the duty of ministers to offer her majesty a palace and the full enjoyment of all her rights. He did not, however, approve of the advice which had been given her to refuse this grant. By the withdrawing of the bill she was the triumphant party, and she might, therefore, accept the money without giving up any legal claim. It was the opinion of the country at large that the exclusion of her name from the Liturgy was unjust, and he was confident there would be no tranquillity until it was inserted.The Earl of Blesington
803Lansdoxvn expressed a desire that the money now granted would be employed in supporting the high station of her majesty, and in exercising those virtues which the House had in view in all grants to the illustrious family on the throne. He should be glad if the apprehensions which he entertained on this subject were unfounded. With respect to the amount of the grant, ministers had, in his opinion, acted wisely. Her majesty had shown a great degree of liberality, on a former occasion, in surrendering a part of the income intended for her by parliament, and he did not wish to see any advantage taken of that liberality by proposing a less sum on the present occasion. The Marquis of 803LansdoxvnLord Calthorpe
828827826825 rose, in pursuance of notice, to move the re-appointment of the committee of last session, or rather of a new committee, to consider the state of our Foreign Trade. In doing so, when he recollected the general concurrence of opinion which prevailed last year, he felt it would not be necessary for him to go into those details to which he had then been induced to direct their lordships' attention. But, though he did not think it necessary to
828827826825The Marquis of Lansdown
l.l.829 regretted that he should have occasion to differ with the noble marquis; but he could not entertain the same views of the effect likely to be produced on the existing distress by the reduction of taxation. The utmost practicable reductions could not be to such an amount as to be felt as a remedy. There was one mode, however, of affording considerable relief. That mode consisted, not in the removal of the taxes, but in their more equal distribution so as to press more lightly upon manufacturers. He might appeal in support of his opinion to the report of the committee of last year on the Timber Trade. In what state had the committee found the duties on that trade? The duties on logs were higher than those on manufactured timber. Those on Norway deals amounted to 60 per cent, and those on Petersburgh
l.l.829Lord Ellenborough
830 rose to move that certain accounts be laid before the House, but did not mean to enter into any details on the state of the commerce of the country, and, least of all, on that great fundamental branch of industry agriculture; but he was anxious that the House should, as far as it was possible, know what was the real state of the case with respect to consumption in order, that when they came to discuss the question, they might not be ignorant of the facts connected with it. In the situation he held, he had thought it his duty to direct Ids attention to this subject, and to collect together all the information that could be obtained relative to it. The view of the subject which the papers he intended to move for would give, would not vary much from that which he had taken on the first day of the session, (when a difference arose between him and the noble marquis.) He had then stated, that one great cause of the public distress was an excess of production. He admitted that the causes to which the noble marquis had alluded might have their effects, but the noble marquis had also stated, that diminution of consumption was a more probable cause than over-production. He had endeavoured to obtain the best information in his power on the subject. With regard to that article which was the most important criterion of consumption, he meant bread, he had no means of obtaining information capable of leading to a conclusion which could be regarded as any thing like correct. But, from the manner in which the revenue was collected, their lordships had the means of accurate information on all the other great articles of consumption. It would be found that with respect to the Excise, the increase was great. He would not found his calculation on the value of
830The Earl of Liverpool
835 said, that formerly it was the practice of ministers to come down to the House with the annual accounts: now they came down with an annual paradox. One year our distress was owing to a transition from war to peace; and another it was owing to excess of production. Swift, in all his expositions of the follies of mankind, never described any thing so absurd as this last paradox. If there had been a deficiency of supply, the noble earl would have found our distress was owing to that case. When the noble earl mentioned that there had been an increase of production and of consumption, would he likewise say that there had been—the necessary consequence of it—an increase of capital? No; there had been no increase of capital: there had been no increase in the quantity of lime used on the land: there had been no increase in the quantity of agricultural labour. As for the cause of our distress, we need look no further than to the circumstance, that we had been for twenty-five years engaged in war, and that we must now pay for it, aggravated as its burthen had been by a
835Lord King
 did not think that any legislative interference could do good. The only remedy for our distress would arise from retrenchment of expenditure and a diminution of taxation.The Earl of Darnley
836 expressed the extreme disappointment with which he had listened to the noble earl, who, from figures and official documents, endeavoured to draw an inference which was contradicted by every thing in the country. He well remembered that the noble earl had, some years ago, by the production of similar documents, endeavoured to draw the inference that the Bank paper was not depreciated; he now, however acknowledged that it had been so, and no doubt the same falsification would attend his inference of the present night. The assertion of the noble earl that the continued consumption proved that the comforts of the people were not diminished, could be refuted by every man in the kingdom. Nor did he believe that there was the excess of production supposed by the noble earl; for he understood that the last crop was rather under than over the average. The causes of all the evils which the country endured, were obviously the profuse expenditure of the late war, and the burdens thereby imposed upon the country. The alteration in our currency was also a main source of the evil, for let them turn and twist it as they would, the fact was, that we had contracted in depreciated paper an immense debt, which we were unable to pay in our restored currency. The situation of the country appeared to him to be frightful. A noble friend of his had said, that we must not for a moment look at a breach of public faith. So said he. But there was an ancient law maxim, which was equally applicable to other subjects:—"Nemo tenetur ad impossible." It was difficult to repress the apprehension, that we were much in the same situation in which France, at the time of the Revolution, was declared to be by a celebrated man, namely, "on the verge of bankruptcy." Distressed as the people were, and alienated from the government by a long course of the most impolitic conduct, there was nothing to which we could look
836Earl Grey
834 declared that he felt great disappointment at the speech of the noble earl. He did expect to have heard much more on the present occasion, as to the best mode of diminishing, if not of remedying, the severe evils under which the people were labouring. The noble earl, amidst his enumeration of small beer, candles, soap, &c. had said nothing of the
834Lord Erskine
, pursuant to notice, presented a bill for extending to Ireland certain provisions of an act of William 3rd, relative to trials for Treason. His lordship observed, that great part of the provisions of the act alluded to, which were undoubtedly wise and humane, had already been extended to Ireland. There remained, however, two provisions which had not been so extended; namely, one requiring an act of treason to be proved by two credible witnesses, and the other enacting, that a prosecution for treason must take place within three years after the commission of the act of treason. The latter provision rested entirely upon this act; it never having been before a part of the law of England. With regard to the former enactment, the history of it was more complicated; by an act of Edward 6th it was declared that every act of treason must be proved by two I competent witnesses; but by an act of Philip and Mary all the acts respecting treason were repealed, and it was enacted that that offence should be tried according to the common law. The question then arose, whether, under the common law, it was necessary for an act of treason to be proved by two witnesses, and I it subsequently appeared, that all the judges, with the exception of lord Coke, were of opinion, that two witnesses were not required. This question, however, I was set at rest in 1695, so far as regarded England, by the act alluded to of William 3rd; and it having been decided by; the judges of Ireland, that the common law did not require two witnesses to prove an act of treason, he was anxious to assimilate the law upon this subject in Ireland to the law of England.Lord Holland
 returned his warmest thanks to the noble lord for bringing forward his measure. It was most desirable that Ireland should be placed on the same footing with England in every respect. Nothing would tend so much to conciliate the people of Ireland as the conviction that the same law and the same rule applied to both countries.The Earl of Limerick
And clap the padlock on the mind."Be to their virtues very kind,"Be to their faults a little blind,1049104810471046104510441043corpus delicti1042exposé,10411040 rose, pursuant to his notice, to call the attention of their lordships to the transactions which had been, and which he feared, were still carrying on in the South of Italy. However strong his personal opinion on the subject he hardly knew whether he should have had the courage to introduce a subject of such importance, if he had not felt, after what had passed in that House, and in another place, that he was supported by the universal voice of the people of this country. With that conviction on his mind, he should have thought it an omission of duty, if he had not endeavoured to give to the general feeling the most effectual expression. He was the more inclined to do this, when he perceived by the latest accounts from the head quarters of the allies, that a most extraordinary delusion still prevailed amongst them as to the real sentiments of the British government. Notwithstanding the circular written by the secretary for Foreign affairs, and the explanations given to the continental powers, it appeared from the contents of the declaration lately arrived, and of the authenticity of which no doubt could be entertained
And clap the padlock on the mind."Be to their virtues very kind,"Be to their faults a little blind,1049104810471046104510441043corpus delicti1042exposé,10411040The Marquis of Lansdown
1055105410531052 said, that his noble friend's objection applied merely to the latter part of the address. The first part stated the satisfaction felt by the House, that his majesty had declined becoming a party to measures of which ministers had expressed their disapprobation. If ministers were right in expressing their disapprobation of the principles of the allies; it could not be wrong for their lordships to record their approbation of the conduct of ministers. He thought such a proceeding necessary, because it would give weight and authority to the remonstrance of the British government. The address did not go to recommend a war with Austria. It called upon ministers to do that, which, if they declined to do, they would deserve to be impeached, namely—to endeavour, by all the means
1055105410531052Lord Ellenborough
 said, that notwithstanding the temporary distress under which this country was labouring, he had no doubt of its possessing abundant resources for any war in which justice or honour might require it to engage; but, in the present instance, he contended, that both justice and policy demanded that we should maintain a strict neutrality. He denied, both on the general principle, and with reference to the particular instance of Naples, that we had any right to interfere in such a case as the present; and, with respect to the address proposed by the noble marquis, it would be altogether inefficient and nugatory, unless accompanied by an address to his majesty to prepare an armament to enforce it.The Earl of Westmoreland
 maintained, that his noble friend's proposition was in no way calculated to break in upon the neutrality which his majesty's government were disposed to preserve. But he thought it due from that House to make a declaration on the subject, conformably to the principles of their ancestors. England was peculiarly entitled to remonstrate against the recent movements of Austria. For how did Austria pay her army? With English money. To this country she was indebted at least seventeen millions.The Earl of Darnley
 supported the motion, on the ground that it was highly important there should be no possible misunderstanding of the opinion of this country on a subject in which the rights and liberties of an independent people were so deeply involved. We owed it to Austria herself, to exert over her all the moral influence that we possessed, and to show her how full of danger her present course was, even if it should prove successful; and how destructive, if the result should be disastrous. In the latter case, how would the Austrian government, with a diminished army, an exhausted treasury, and a dishonoured name, be able to meet the demands made upon it by its own people, who might perhaps require a constitution less monarchical even than that which they were now endeavouring to destroy?Lord Calthorpe
106310621061"Aliis occasio, aliis animus, nemini voluntas deficit."106010591058 said, that the noble earl who spoke second in the debate, had objected, that the motion of the noble marquis was indistinct and unintelligible, whereas it appeared to him that the noble earl had himself misunderstood that which was distinct, and misrepresented that which was intelligible. The noble earl commenced by observing, that the noble mover had mistaken the manifesto of the allied sovereigns; and to prove this, he referred to the circular note of lord Castlereagh, and not to the manifesto itself. His noble friend, in consequence of the language and conduct of Austria, called upon the House to vindicate the honour of the country; he did not then enter into the question, whether such a vindication of our honour was likely to end in hostilities or not. And why was this done? Because the allied powers—because Austria itself—had misrepresented to the world the principles upon which this government acted, or at least professed to act. It was said in the declaration of the allied sovereigns, that Great Britain fully coincided in the general principle upon which they acted, but that considerations of state prevented that power from co-operating with them in the prosecution of their plans. This appeared upon the face of that monstrous, disgusting, and hypocritical paper which had been put forth by the amiable and pacific congress of Laybach. The noble lords on the other side said, that the interference with the affairs of Naples was in support of the cause of Austria: but Austria said no—that their sole object was, the peace and safety of the whole of Europe, which were threatened by those proceedings. The noble lord, after quoting some passages from the declaration of the allied sovereigns, asked the noble lord opposite (Liverpool), to stand up and say whether his majesty's ministers coincided in the principles and feelings by which the allied sovereigns were actuated? The noble earl who had just sat down said he believed Austria to be sincere in her professions. Did the noble earl, or did his majesty's ministers believe her sincere, when she, in that odious and disgusting document, declared the government of this
106310621061"Aliis occasio, aliis animus, nemini voluntas deficit."106010591058Lord Holland
10651064 said, that a great part of the noble lord's speech had been occupied with eloquent declamation against the interference of the allied powers with Naples; and he could not help remarking, that when they had seen other independent states attacked in a similar manner, they had heard no eloquent declamation from the noble lords opposite. The noble lords on those occasions had, on the contrary inculcated the necessity of peace, and the impolicy of interfering. The only exception was, in the case of the invasion of Spain, against which his noble friend opposite had certainly expressed an opinion. The present motion he believed to be without precedent. The constitution invested the Crown with the power of making war or peace, and of negotiating with other states. The right of parliament to refuse the supplies, he believed to be equal to the right of the Crown to declare war; and he was not prepared to deny that parliament might advise the king to resort to war. It was an admonition improperly applied, and if fit to be applied, improperly expressed. There were two modes in which a great nation could interfere. Its influence might be exercised in private by its accredited agents; but, when its sentiments were recorded by a public declaration, they must make up their minds to enforce their declaration by arms, if it should be disregarded. If there was any doubt, whether this motion was a motion of war, the speech of his noble friend had removed all doubt. The noble baron avowed that he looked to war; he hoped, perhaps, that war might not be necessary: the noble baron should have credit for those hopes, but war was at one alternative on which he relied. But if this was the sentiment of the supporters of the motion, they should say so distinctly, and give advice to the king accordingly. The question which the
10651064The Earl of Liverpool
1057 deprecated the adoption of the address, in the absence of all satisfactory information, with respect to the real state of the case between Austria and Naples. For his own part, he was not ashamed to confess, that he placed great confidence in the good faith of the declaration which had been issued by the allied sovereigns. This confidence was confirmed by the former conduct of Austria, who, when put in possession of the fortified places of Naples, evacuated them, even before the period prescribed by the treaty which put them into her hands. In saying this, however, he begged to be by no means understood as expressing any approbation of the principle of what was called the Holy Alliance. Although he sincerely believed, that the motives of the sovereigns by whom it was formed were pure, yet it was a system liable to so much abuse, that he could not too strongly reprobate it. At the same time, he was convinced that the present invasion of Naples was not considered in a just light by those who attributed it to the Holy Alliance. This was not candid. The interests of Austria were alone concerned in the affair. Unquestionably no roan could contemplate the attempt of a military despotism to beat down the infant independence of any state without emotion. In a contest between a strong and a weak power, a generous mind naturally sympathised with the latter. There was also something extremely captivating in the very name of liberty. But it was not absolutely necessary that the weaker power, in any contest, must therefore hare justice on its side. It was not absolutely necessary that what was called liberty must therefore really be so. With respect to the conduct of Austria towards Naples, he was not prepared positively to pronounce that that conduct was justifiable; neither did the transactions which had occurred at Naples warrant any one in pronouncing that the conduct of Austria was unjustifiable. The revolution in Naples was incontestably the work of the Carbonari. The principles of that sect were not confined to the assertion of constitutional liberty in opposition to despotic government, but directly aimed at the destruction of every standing government. No doubt could be entertained of the despotic influence of that sect over the parliament at Naples, and that there was not a single; movement of the government now existing there, which was not controlled by
1057The Earl of Aberdeen
10511050 said, that the whole ar-
10511050Earl Bathurst
1472147114701469 rose for the purpose of moving an address to his majesty, praying that he would be graciously pleased to offer his mediation to the emperor of Austria and the governments of Naples and Sardinia, with a View to bring about an amicable adjustment of their differences, consistently with the honour of all parties. When the noble marquis (Lansdown) near him had submitted a motion On the affairs of Naples some time ago, he (lord E.) had then expressed an apprehension, that at no distant period Austria herself might wish for the interference of this country, to enable her to retire from the contest with honour. That moment, as it appeared to him, was now arrived; and he called on their lordships to place this country in the proud situation of acting as mediator between the belligerent powers, and arresting the progress of a contest which might extend itself to other countries. It appeared to him that they were called upon to interpose at that moment, because it was the first moment when their mediation could be offered with effect. Whatever opinions he might entertain with respect to the conduct of Austria, and of the allied powers generally, he would observe the greatest moderation in what he should address to their lordships when speaking of those powers, and particularly of Austria herself. For, however he might lament and disapprove of her present policy, he was bound to acknowledge the great services she had rendered to the whole of Europe. He could not avoid recollecting her conduct in 1805 and the zeal with which she sprung forward when this country was threatened with invasion; he also recollected her conduct in 1809, when she seized the first moment of hope, and exerted herself for the expulsion of the French from Spain; and lastly, he remembered her faith and loyalty in 1813, which led to the successes of Europe and
1472147114701469Lord Ellenborough
1473 opposed the motion. There were, he observed, many difficulties attached to the course recommended by the noble lord. In the first place, it was known that the king of Naples had issued a proclamation, calling upon his subjects to receive the Austrians as friends, and not as enemies; and it was far from being desirable that this country should place itself in the situation of judge between the king of Naples and the persons now exercising the government neither was it to be presumed, that the king's authority was so far gone, or that of the Carbonari so firmly established, as to render it certain that the proclamation would not be eventually obeyed. By adopting the motion, they would be guilty of that interference which was directly opposite to the course which they professed to follow. But supposing they had got over that difficulty, the noble lord had not explained very distinctly the manner in which he would have the mediation proposed. Did he mean to offer terms of perfect equality to both parties? The duty of a mediator was not that of a judge; but the motion looked rather like a sharp remonstrance to Austria than a moderate interference. In fact, it was impossible to preserve the cool spirit of mediation between two powers, under a belief that an unwarrantable aggression had been committed upon one side: That the character of a peace maker became a great country like this, he did not deny, but there should be some probability of success to warrant such an interference, and the only case in which they could have any chance of success was, where both parties were desirous of mediation. The noble lord had thrown out a species of threat, that if Austria did not consent, this country should recall the prohibition to its officers against joining the Neapolitans. Whether that prohibition was wise or not, every reason that made in favour of it, in the first instance, was still in full force; but did the noble lord think that the mere circumstance of granting permission to a few officers would have the effect of changing the
1473The Earl of Aberdeen
 in rising to move that the bill be read a first time, said, he was deeply impressed with a sense of the important situation in which he was placed, by being selected to advocate the claims of the Roman Catholics in that House. He had lately had communications with some of the first men in the kingdom on both sides of the question, the result of which induced him to believe, that in the progress of the bill through the House such amendments would be made as would remove every material objection that might be entertained on the part of the Catholics to the measure, without at the same time failing to give those securities which the Protestant establishment in church and state had a right to require.The Earl of Donoughmore,
2 said, that the bill was itself of the greatest importance, and coming, as it did, recommended by the House of Commons, it was in every respect entitled to their most serious consideration. That consideration he was certain it would receive, and whatever their lordships' decision might be, he trusted, that the question would be discussed with all that moderation which had hitherto characterised its progress. Having him-
2The Earl of Liverpool
3 said, that with respect to one of the points alluded to by the noble earl, he felt exactly as he did; but he was sorry the noble earl did not agree with him in the general principle or the bill. If the Roman Catholics entertained sentiments opposed to the principles of the constitution, he should object to grant them the proposed relief; but he was convinced, they were as loyal as the members of any other persuasion. The noble lord alluded, in terms of praise, to the manner in which the other House had met the wishes of the friends of the Catholics, and observed, that if the Catholics were not grateful for the conduct of
3The Earl of Donoughmore
 apologised to the House for troubling them in such a stage, even upon so interesting a subject; but, having read the bill, and looked at that part of it which referred to the office which he had the honour to fulfil, he thought it necessary to state, that he could not agree to a measure of such vast alteration. Notwithstanding his great respect for many noble lords from whom he differed, and for the recommendation of the other House, he had no difficulty in stating, that though, on retracing his former opinions, he would not hesitate to change them if he thought they were wrong, he had every reason to conclude, that it would be impossible to introduce any modifications which could induce him to consent to the bill. He would, however, bestow his best reflection oh the subject between this and the second reading.The Lord Chancellor
151 on presenting the Report of the Committee on Foreign Trade, said, he would state, in a very few words, the objects to which it related. Those objects were, our Asiatic trade, and the facilities which might be given to it. The subject was considered under the three following points of view:—That part of our Asiatic trade which was
151The Marquis of Lansdown,
152 said, that as he understood that no objection would be offered to the Bill in its present stage, all parties being agreed to go into evidence upon the subject, he would confine himself to a very few observations. The present bill differed from the former one, inasmuch as the former went to remove the franchise altogether, while the present transferred it to another place. It had been improperly compared to a bill of pains and penalties; it was, in fact, a bill of regulation. Besides, it was to be recollected, that nearly one-half the voters had been already convicted, who were now said to be put upon their trial, and that so far from awarding any punishment against individuals, by the bill, they had passed an act of indemnity to protect them in giving evidence to sustain a remedial law. A
152The Earl of Carnarvon
 said, he could not agree to the mode of conducting the inquiry proposed by the noble lord; for whether they looked upon it in the light of a bill of Pains and Penalties or not, they had derived great advantage in a recent case, which was a bill of Pains and Penalties, from adhering to all the rules of evidence. The rule of evidence was, that counsel should be permitted to offer legal objections to any question; of course in doing so, they would observe the respect which was due to the House; but he had lived long enough to know, that in judicial proceedings, there was no man who did not stand in need of assistance. If, however, the House should object to the interference of counsel, he hoped they would excuse him if, in his anxiety to do justice, he submitted questions on behalf of the persons interested.The Lord Chancellor
153 objected to the hearing of any counsel, as it would be the
153The Earl of Rosslyn
 was decidedly against calling in counsel on both sides, as the bill was wholly of a remedial nature.The Marquis of Lansdown
 thought, that counsel were not necessary to argue at ther lordships' bar the wisdom of a legislative measure.The Earl of Rosslyn
 suggested, that as it was proposed to hear counsel against the bill, it might be proper for the House to appoint counsel to argue in support of the bill.The Earl of Harrowby
 objected to the Bill altogether, as it not only exercised the power of disfranchising one borough, but of transferring that franchise to another. If they resolved to disfranchise the rotten borough now under consideration, they did not know how soon they might be called upon to adopt the same proceeding with regard to other places; and when they reflected, that the House of Commons owed the introduction of some of its most distinguished members, among whom were the names of Pitt and Fox, to small boroughs, they ought to pause before they recognized a principle which might end in their extinction.Lord Ashburton
 hoped the bill which had passed the other House, would have the most important effects; it would, he trusted, raise that House in the affections and confidence of the people.Lord Erskine
264 observed, that as there was no probability Of the debate being gone through that night, he thought it convenient at that time to move an adjournment until to-morrow; for, whatever might be the ultimate decision of the House, it was desirable, that no one within or without this House
264The Earl of Liverpool
234233232231230229228227226225224223222pro forma;221 rose. He said, it was now a long period since the Roman Catholics had been the objects of intolerance and cruelty. In the reign of his late majesty, however, a better prospect was presented to them. By the British statute of 1778, and the statute passed by the Irish parliament about the same time, the first breach was made in the system of proscription which had so long been pursued towards the Roman Catholics. This breach was still further widened by the British statute of 1791, which gave to the Roman Catholics of this country, all the privileges which they were at present capable of possessing. A spirit of liberality and just feeling had been evinced by a large portion of the public towards their Roman Catholic fellow-subjects. The progress of this tolerant feeling had been particularly rapid among the higher classes. The Irish parliament of 1782, granted many more concessions to the Roman Catholics, which were still further extended by the same parliament in 1792. But, by the Irish statute of 1793, by which the elective franchise and other important privileges were restored to the Roman Catholics of Ireland, they were placed in a situation of superiority to the members of the same religion m England. The preference which the Irish Roman Catholic thus possessed could not be justified on any principle of reason or expediency.234233232231230229228227226225224223222pro forma;221The Earl of Donoughmore
241240239238237236235 said, that in addition to the embarrassment he must always feel in addressing their lordships, he laboured in the present instance under peculiar difficulty from the conviction that he could offer nothing which had not been more ably stated by others on former occasions, and from an apprehension that, by an injudicious selection of arguments, he might injure the cause he was anxious to serve. He had no hope of making any deep impression on the House; but he felt it to be his duty to express, as concisely as the nature of the subject would admit, his sentiments, which time and reflection, and even the conduct of those whom he most respected had not been able to alter; but which on the contrary all that he had seen, and a long residence in Catholic countries, had but tended to confirm. The present bill consisted of two parts: the first part went to admit Roman Catholics to almost all offices in the state; the second, to regulate their intercourse with the see of Rome. To the latter, many Catholics strongly objected; but it was to the former part of the bill that his objections would be directed; and he would begin by moving: —"That the bill should be read a second time this day six months." This bill ap-
241240239238237236235The Earl of Mansfield
245244243242 said, that on the present occasion he could not reconcile it to his feelings to pursue the same course which he had followed on former occasions when this subject was under their lordships' consideration, namely, to express his dissent by a silent vote. The question came now before them in a shape which was entitled to their most respectful attention; for it came in a legislative form from the other House of Parliament. Against such a bill, it became now his duty to state his conscientious objections. He meant to offer an opposition, not only to the principle of the measure, but also to the details as embodied in the present bill. In taking this course he begged to disclaim all hostile or illiberal feelings towards the Catholic body, for such he had never entertained; on the contrary, his feelings and principles were ever to grant to all classes of his fellow subjects the full exercise of their religion without molestation or insult, while that religion contained nothing repugnant to morals or decency. To the Catholics he was always ready to grant the unfettered enjoyment of their form of worship, the free disposition of their property, the fullest personal protection, and an equal security under the laws. Beyond these was political power, and if he could not grant that, it was from a sincere apprehension for the safety of the Protestant establishment. He was ready to admit the loyalty of the Catholics, and particularly those of England, whose peaceable disposition and order had been for a century remarkable: and if any agitation had taken place among the Catholics of Ireland, he was sensible it was often attributable to the peculiar
245244243242The Bishop of London
252251250249 observed, that the arguments which had been used in the course of the debate referred more to the existence of certain tenets and doctrines in the Roman Catholic religion, than to the question whether the restrictions under which the Catholic population laboured were such as were just and deserving of a longer continuance. This circumstance arose from the peculiar nature of the subject then before their lordships, which, on every occasion that it was discussed, added strength to the advocates of emancipation, not so much from any increase of talent that they acquired, as from the perpetual variation of arguments to which they drove their opponents. Time after time had the defenders of the restrictions been obliged to take refuge from their old arguments behind some new intolerances; and time after time had that intolerance been proved as untenable as those which had been previously abandoned. The noble mar-
252251250249The Marquis of Buckingham
 rose to explain. He had never said that Catholics were not to be believed upon oath: all he had said was, that a Papist on taking an oath took it with a reservation of the duty which he owed to his church, which was a limitation that Protestants did not use.The Bishop of London
253 said, he did not wish to misrepresent the reverend prelate; but taking the matter upon his own exposition, it amounted very nearly to the same meaning as he had put upon it. He thought, however, from what had fallen from the reverend prelate, that he had never read either the oath proposed to the Catholics in 1793, or that now proposed to them, and which had been drawn up by a gentleman, who certainly was not one of their greatest friends That reverend prelate and those noble lords who acted with him must believe either that a Catholic was to be trusted upon his oath or that he was not. If he was to be trusted upon his oath, their lordships had bound him by one—if he was not, and if he disregarded oaths altogether, what was it that prevented him from sitting among them in parliament? By his not being there, he showed that he regarded an oath; and it was too much, after their lordships had framed an oath, and he had showed that he regarded it, for them to turn round and to say that he could not be believed even upon an oath—The noble marquis then read the oath of 1793, which disclaimed all the objectionable points imputed to the Catholics, and which they had declared their readiness to take. He then asked, what had become of the fears which a noble earl had expressed for the property of Ireland, and a reverend prelate for the property of the church? He next implored the House to go into a committee, and to consider what securities would be sufficient, if those in the present bill appeared to be insufficient. This he conceived it to be the imperative duty of their lordships to do; for he did not think that there was one man among them who could lay his hand upon his heart and say that he was convinced that this measure would not ultimately pass both Houses of Parliament. The bill was recommended to their lordships by one of the Houses of Parliament; it was recommended by the petitions and pledges of the Roman Catholics; it was recommended by the ac-
253The Marquis of Buckingham
256255254 thought this a most important subject, and he therefore thought, let the result of that night's discussion be what it would, that he should not discharge his duty as a bishop and a Protestant if he gave his vote against the second reading of this bill, without stating as briefly and as clearly as he could his reasons for giving that vote. It appeared to him, that the Catholics were already in possession of complete religious toleration; and it would, he conceived, be a waste of their lordship's time to go into any arguments in proof of that opinion, as the doors of Roman Catholic places of worship were as open as the doors of Protestant churches; but the jet of the argument was, that civil immunities and privileges which were enjoyed by the Protestants were denied to the Catholics. This appeared to him to be done for the wisest of purposes, because, he was of opinion, when an invariable connexion was observed between the religious opinions and political conduct of any body of men, the legislature was called upon to interfere. But, before he said any more, he should beg leave to disclaim all reflections upon the Catholics as a body, and all insinuations against any individual Roman Catholics, and to state, that in no part of the kingdom was there a greater number of Catholics than in his Diocese, and he was proud to declare that the most friendly intercourse subsisted between them and their Protestant neighbours; but his objections lay not against
256255254The Bishop of Chester
257 said, that he had never acted in that House as a party man. He conceived that a bishop ought not to act in that House but where religious matters were involved. He had frequently before advocated the question then under discussion, and humanly speaking, that would be the last time that he should ever have an opportunity of addressing their lordships upon it. He would then ask what was the church which it was proposed to secure by disa-
257The Bishop of Norwich
248à fortiori247bene placitum246 said, that if at any time he had risen upon this great question, with a full impression of the necessity of curbing his feelings, and arguing with coolness and temper, the present was the time when he felt the fullest necessity of dispassionately considering the important subject involved in this bill. The noble earl opposite had, in his powerful speech, thrown out a hint that the effect of passing this bill might be to induce a secession among Protestants, who otherwise would remain devoted to their church. Now upon this remark he should merely say, that he yielded to no man in the necessity of inviolably maintaining the Protestant religion. He had always felt this necessity when he had on former occasions advocated this vital question, and advocated it, he believed and trusted, upon the great principles which had placed that family, of which he was an humble member upon the throne of these realms. In looking at the great question now under their lordships consideration, he thought it behoved them, before they entered into the general argument, to examine what was the origin of the penal laws against the Catholics; to see whether the cause which led to them still required their continuance, and also to investigate how far the present state of society was constituted like that which provoked those laws, and if not, what changes that state had undergone, which required their modification or abrogation. It was very material to see how far the provisions of the bill were consistent with the state of things which had sprung up since the original enactment of the restrictions, and also how far they accorded with the opinions professed by Catholics in this and other countries. Much had been said of the proportion of confidence to be given to the obligations of Catholics. On this he would say, that before any man was justified in casting suspicions upon another, he ought seriously to reflect how far those suspicions were well-founded. In referring back to the origin of these laws,
248à fortiori247bene placitum246The Duke of Sussex
220219 rose to present two petitions. The first was from a large body of persons in this country, professing the Roman Catholic religion. The petition had been drawn up before the bill now before their lordships had passed through the other
House, and it prayed for general relief from the disabilities under which the Roman Catholics laboured. The petitioners felt grateful for the acts passed for their relief during the benevolent reign of the late king; but they complained that they still laboured under great disadvantages, and that they were marked out as persons dangerous and unworthy of public trust. In answer to these unmerited imputations, they appeal to those persons who have had an opportunity of observing their conduct in a political as well as a moral point of view, and call upon them to declare whether they deserve the character thus attempted to be fixed on them; and whether, on the contrary, they have not always been distinguished for loyalty and attachment, and submission to the laws. The petitioners have been accused of giving to a foreign potentate the submission which is due from them to the king of this country; but this they deny, and state that they fully recognise the sovereign power of his majesty. The second petition he had to present was signed by six Roman Catholic peers—the duke of Norfolk, the earl of Shrewsbury, lord Arundel, lord Petre, lord Clifford, and lord Stourton. These petitioners stated, that they had read the bill which had passed through the other House of Parliament, and had been read a first time by their lordships, and that it received their full concurrence. The petitioners had hitherto been prevented from sitting in their lordships' House, in consequence of the form of the oath which they were required to take as a necessary preliminary to the enjoyment of that privilege. He felt great satisfaction in presenting these petitions, not only on account of the characters of the petitioners, but also from the feeling which he entertained of the justice of their claims, and of the temper and moderation with which they were advanced. He felt himself bound to answer the appeal which had been made by the petitioners, and to state, from the result of his own personal observation, that there did not exist men more distinguished for the exemplary discharge of their public and private duties through all the various walks of life. This would be acknowledged even by those who felt themselves under the painful necessity of opposing their claims. He remembered on a former occasion to have heard the noble earl opposite (Liverpool) say, that, for distinguished loy-
220219Earl Grey
263262261 said, he could not consent to give a silent vote, both on account of the importance of the question and the part he had taken in former debates upon this subject. The tone assumed by the opponents of the measure, who did not indeed denounce its supporters as enemies to the church establishments, but insisted that the whole course of argument in its favour tended to its destruction, also induced him to press a few remarks upon the House. He would yield to no man in the sincerity and warmth of his attachment to the established church, and he declared that this measure would meet with his decided opposition, if he could be persuaded that there was any just ground for apprehending danger to the church. It was an object of no small importance to remove every galling feeling from so large a portion of the community, and to unite every man in the empire in its defence against every danger that might assail it. This was an advantage, however, which, great as it was, might be purchased too dear. The principle of the present bill
263262261The Earl of Harrowby
regium donum,l.l.l.l.l.260259258 opposed the bill. He said, he could see nothing in it but a principle of contradiction. Throughout the whole, one Clause was in direct contradiction to another. Protestantism had been established in this country on a principle of exclusion, it was on that principle the throne was made hereditary in the Protestant line. This bill was inconsistent with the permanent establishment of Protestantism. Was it by the words of an act of parliament, by a mere piece of parchment that it could be secured? No, exclusion was the security, and the only security on which they could rely. It was for this reason that a Catholic or any person who married a Catholic was excluded from the throne. When, in the time of Charles 2nd a bill had been introduced to prevent James from succeeding to the throne, it was opposed on the same ground on which the present measure was supported. The arguments were the same as those now used. It was asked, whether they would exclude that monarch from the succession for entertaining conscientiously his religious belief as a Roman Catholic? The answer was, Yes; because a Catholic monarch could not
regium donum,l.l.l.l.l.260259258Lord Redesdale
281280 said:—my lords; though I am wholly unable to do justice either to the great importance of the subject before the House, or to my own convictions, yet I am unwilling to give the vote which I shall do this night against the second reading of the bill, without endeavouring at least to state the grounds of my objections to it. But, before I state those grounds, I wish to make a single observation on what fell from the noble earl, whose eloquent speech closed the debate of last night. The noble earl observed, that the constitution of this country is "essentially Protestant, but not exclusively so." My lords, the history of the constitution, if I mistake not, requires both terms. From the Constitutions of Clarendon downwards, its Protestant character was forming. It was forming by the variety of checks which were given to the intrusive authority of the pope by the laws of Edward 1st and 3rd, Richard 2nd and others. It was formed, and in great measure completed by the laws of Henry 8th. It was finally completed by the statute of the 30th of Charles 2nd. It was completed, my lords, by the active exclusion of the pope and his jurisdiction from the constitution. I object to the bill, because it appears to me contrary to the very end for which your lordships are here assembled. The writ of summons convened parliament expressly to consult for the defence of the church of England; super rebus quibusdem arduis defensionem regni Angliæ et Ecclesiæ Anglicanse concerventibus. But the church of England never can be defended by giving political power to her greatest enemy, the church of Rome. I object to the bill, because it appears to me contrary to the oath which I took at the commencement of the present parliament. The bill recognizes the foreign jurisdiction, which I then swore does not exist, and ought not to exist within this realm. The oath expressed my real sentiments. I took it
281280The Bishop of St. David's
285284283 said, that no one could feel more respect than he did for the illustrious personage who had just sat down, but it was with regret that he heard the sentiments just uttered, though he was confident, that they sprung from the purest conviction, and the most conscientious regard to truth and honour. He regretted to hear the deliberate opinion of the heir to the Crown delivered in opposition to such a measure as the present. He had himself for many years attended to the discussions on the subject, and his opinion had been formed by the same honest conviction for which he gave credit to the illustrious personage. The more he read, and heard, and saw, the more he was confirmed in the opinion which was diametrically opposite to that which had been just expressed. He had for the most part abstained from taking any share in the debates which had arisen upon the subject, leaving it to abler hands to advocate its merits; but the measure now came recommended by the Commons of England; the prejudices against it had in a great degree given way, both in this country and in Ireland, and he was anxious to avail himself of the present opportunity to state why he differed from the illustrious personage and the noble lords who supported the same side. He would confess that he was much surprised at the tone and manner in which the question had been taken up. He was surprised at the arguments of the noble earl (of Mansfield) who had spoken second in the debate of the preceding night. The speech was certainly a good speech with reference to other times—it was a good speech, but it ought to have been delivered a century and a half ago. The era to which it was adapted was that in which a noble lord was known to have declared, that he would not have in his establishment "a Popish man or a Popish woman—a Popish dog or a Popish cat." At that period the speech of the noble lord would have received due honour; but at this time of
285284283The Earl of Darnley
319318"Persecution for religious opinions,"317316***315314others,313youall312essential, fundamental, and to continue for ever!311310309308307Was it intended that a native of Scotland, not a peer, professing the Roman Catholic religion, might be a representative of an English county or city, but that he should not represent a Scotch shire or burgh?Or, was a special clause to be finally inserted in the bill, excepting those peers and members, and their electors, from the operation of this bill, and preserving the aid of Scotch Protestants, representing Scotland in the two Houses of Parliament, in support of the Protestant succession and government in the united kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, when the doors of both Houses should be opened, as to England and Ireland, to peers and commoners professing the Roman Catholic religion?Was it then intended to alter the articles of Union with Scotland in this respect, and with regard to one of their most fundamental provisions?The proposed bill had no clause continuing to confine the right to elect and to be elected, to Protestants, with respect to the sixteen peers, and forty-five members of the House of Commons for Scotland.Catholic religion in Scotland, substitutes a new form of oath instead of the formula required by king William's statute, does not appear to affect this provision requiring as to parliament the electors and elected to be Protestants.306And the act of the 33rd George III. which, as to persons professing the Roman
306The act of the 6th of queen Anne, for rendering the Union more complete, and providing that there should be only one privy council in Great Britain, made it necessary to make other provisions in the proceedings as to the election of members of the House of Commons, and the sixteen peers; but the acts making such provisions do not appear to alter the provision, that both electors and elected should be Protestants.***305for ever.restored304i. e.303302301the revolutions300impedimentum dirimens.299298and,andandornot Protestant.being Protestants.testants,297being Pro-unrivetting296unrivettingin ordine ad spiritualia.in or dine ad spiritualia,295contemporanea exposilio;in pari materiáin ordine ad spiritualia;294293292291290alli. e.inviolably.permanentlyinviolably:permanently289288this287thisthisthis286*** rose.319318"Persecution for religious opinions,"317316***315314others,313youall312essential, fundamental, and to continue for ever!311310309308307Was it intended that a native of Scotland, not a peer, professing the Roman Catholic religion, might be a representative of an English county or city, but that he should not represent a Scotch shire or burgh?Or, was a special clause to be finally inserted in the bill, excepting those peers and members, and their electors, from the operation of this bill, and preserving the aid of Scotch Protestants, representing Scotland in the two Houses of Parliament, in support of the Protestant succession and government in the united kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, when the doors of both Houses should be opened, as to England and Ireland, to peers and commoners professing the Roman Catholic religion?Was it then intended to alter the articles of Union with Scotland in this respect, and with regard to one of their most fundamental provisions?The proposed bill had no clause continuing to confine the right to elect and to be elected, to Protestants, with respect to the sixteen peers, and forty-five members of the House of Commons for Scotland.Catholic religion in Scotland, substitutes a new form of oath instead of the formula required by king William's statute, does not appear to affect this provision requiring as to parliament the electors and elected to be Protestants.306And the act of the 33rd George III. which, as to persons professing the Roman
306The act of the 6th of queen Anne, for rendering the Union more complete, and providing that there should be only one privy council in Great Britain, made it necessary to make other provisions in the proceedings as to the election of members of the House of Commons, and the sixteen peers; but the acts making such provisions do not appear to alter the provision, that both electors and elected should be Protestants.***305for ever.restored304i. e.303302301the revolutions300impedimentum dirimens.299298and,andandornot Protestant.being Protestants.testants,297being Pro-unrivetting296unrivettingin ordine ad spiritualia.in or dine ad spiritualia,295contemporanea exposilio;in pari materiáin ordine ad spiritualia;294293292291290alli. e.inviolably.permanentlyinviolably:permanently289288this287thisthisthis286***The Lord Chancellor
346345344343342341340 said, he rose with reluctance, and the more so, because he had urged on former occasions all the topics it was possible for him to advance on the present. He was ready to admit, at the outset, that the question came before the House in a new shape: as the noble barcn had remarked, it was not introduced on the recommendation of an individual peer, or by the exertions of a particular party; but it was recommended to peculiar regard as the opinion of the other branch of the legislature. On all accounts, therefore, it ought to receive a full, a temperate, and a candid discussion. It had been asked last night, and this night repeated, why in this new view of the subject, he did not agree that the bill should be read a second time and referred to a committee? He answered, that if he agreed in the general purview and object of the measure, though differing upon clauses and particular provisions, he should have consented to that farther step. He had no difficulty, however, in saying, that after the most thorough consideration—after looking carefully at the two parts of the bill, the one relating to concession and the other to security, he found in it scarcely three lines to which he could in any way give his consent. It was not a fair view of the question, to say that every man who was for curing certain anomalies, or who even thought that some farther concession might be made beyond what was given in 1793, ought to vote for the second reading. He felt that he could not honestly consent to that stage of the bill, as approving generally of the provisions, and then reduce in the committee a measure of this magnitude and extent to any thing so limited and insignificant. What was the bill? Stating it fairly, and upon the principles of its supporters, its object was to remove, with certain exceptions, all civil disabilities from persons professing the Roman Catholic religion. Those exceptions were three:—but if he thought merely that they were too few, he would vote for the second reading, because those exceptions came correctly within the province of a committee. Without prejudging the question whether certain minor points might or might not be granted, his opinion was this—that the great direct influence of the state in parliament, and in the privy council, ought to be kept where it was; and so thinking, the more honest and manly course was; to take his stand upon
346345344343342341340The Earl of Liverpool
351350349348 said, he desired it might be distinctly understood, that how gratifying soever it might be to his feelings to give his vote for the admission of any description of his majesty's subjects to those constitutional privileges and blessings which they had a right to enjoy, the ground on which he rested his support of the present bill was, not the "advantage of the Roman Catholics, or of any description of men whatever; but the advantage of the state and the church, the strength and stability of which must depend on the unanimity of all the subjects of the realm. He was glad to hear it conceded by the noble earl who spoke last, that the period was gone by when attempts were to be made to exterminate the religion professed by a great portion of the subjects of this kingdom, and that their lordships were now arrived at that state of feeling, in which it only remained for them to consider whether they ought to admit the professors of that faith to the privileges enjoyed by other subjects. The noble earl had stated, that this measure of favour, even if extended, as proposed, to the Roman Catholics of Ireland, might prove a boon which after all would not be acceptable. What might be the result of some of the provisions of this bill he was not prepared distinctly to say; but this he would confidently state, that the main part of it would be received with gratitude by the great body of the Catholics. The noble earl had next stated, that the effect of the measure would not be so great or so beneficial as was expected. He knew not by what advocates the noble earl had heard it stated that Catholic emancipation in Ireland would have the immediate effect of quieting and dissipating all the discontent and dissatisfaction which a long continued system of misgovernment had created in that country: but he was still more at a loss to conceive where the noble earl had found that the privileges granted by this bill would not give satisfaction to the great body of the population, because the immediate benefits of it would be experienced by only a small number of individuals. Did the noble earl mean to say—and did the sentiment tome with a good grace from him—that the privileges of the superior orders were not held for the public good? Were the privileges of their lordships held for their own sakes solely? Could it be reasonably supposed that the eligibility of the superior orders to offices of honour and
351350349348The Marquis of Lansdown
 had no difficulty in voting for the second reading of the bill. Had his noble ancestor, to whom allusion had been made, been living, he would assuredly have been friendly to this measure. The circumstances of the country were changed, and what the greatest patriot might in a former age have thought necessary, was now no longer so. He did not apprehend any danger from the admission of a few Catholics into the House of Commons. That House was intended to represent all the interests of the country; but as things now stood, that intention was not carried into effect. The admission of a few Catholics would repair the deficiency, and cause another interest which had hitherto enjoyed no representation, to be duly represented. He had no doubt that if the measure passed, and if the Catholics at any future period had an opportunity of establishing their own religion, they would avail themselves of it; and so would the dissenters, of whatever class or description. There was, however, no prospect of the occurrence of any such opportunity; and the apprehension of that which might be treated almost as an impossibility would not justify the House in refusing a course of justice and of conciliation.Lord Somers
355354 said, that under the very particular circumstances in which he was placed, he felt it to be his duty to state to their lordships the reasons which induced him to give his vote for the second reading of this bill. That vote he intended to give from a strong conviction of the utility and necessity of the measure. In giving his decided opinion that the bill should be read a second time, he had to regret that it was his misfortune to differ from many noble friends with whom he was usually in the habit of agreeing. Notwithstanding the ability with which the debate had been conducted, and the number of noble lords who had delivered their sentiments, he had not been so fortunate as to hear one main point sufficiently touched upon, to which, above all others, he thought their lordships' attention ought to be directed—he meant the consequences of rejecting the bill. They had heard a great deal of the danger, which he thought magnified—he would not say entirely visionary—of carrying this bill into effect; but little or nothing had been said of the danger which was to be expected if it should not be carried. Under any government, particularly under one like our own, the exclusion of a considerable proportion of the population from rights and privileges enjoyed by others must be attended with risk. The population of the colonies and of India, though under the same government, was placed in circumstances which rendered it necessary that a different rule should be applied. The population he referred to was one like that of which their lordships were a part, having the same kind of education and the same feelings as themselves, and engaged, as far as they would allow them to be engaged, in the service and the defence of the country. It had been said, that the passing of this bill would not make the population to which he had referred either better or worse. But if any people were told, that such as they were they must remain—that whatever talents, what ever industry they might exert, it was all in vain, for a boundary was put to their rank in society—surely it was not
355354Viscount Melville
282 rose, he said, with the utmost reluctance to oppose the second reading of the bill; but there were occasions on which it became an individual not to step aside, but to come forward and boldly avow the sentiments which he entertained. The present he considered to be one of those occasions; for, were not their lordships called upon to sanction a measure, which it was admitted, even by its advocates, would effect a great change in the constitution as established at the revolution of 1688, and in the system which had seated his majesty's family on the throne? When measures similar to the present had been proposed by a statesman, who had rendered the most eminent services to his country, his royal highness said, he had strenuously opposed them, on a thorough conviction of their dangerous tendency. The more he had since heard the subject discussed, the more he had been confirmed in the opinion which he had then expressed. He had always understood that the Church of England was an integral part of the constitution. Long might it remain so! But let not their lordships imagine that he was an enemy to toleration. He should always be happy that every sect should have the full exercise of its religion, as long as it did not affect the security of the established church, and as long as its members remained loyal subjects. But, there was a great difference between allowing the free exercise of religion and granting political power. As he felt, himself inadequate to
282The Duke of York
353352 began by observing, that it was with the most painful feelings he felt himself called upon to oppose the measure before the House. Nothing was more revolting to his mind than to declare it necessary to withhold from so large a portion of his fellow subjects, as the body of Roman Catholics, the privileges enjoyed by the other classes of the community. The measure came before their lordships now under different circumstances than on former occasions; for it had already obtained the sanction of one branch of the legislature. Could he believe that all the beneficial consequences would result from the measure which the noble marquis who spoke last, and other noble lords anticipated, he should consider it the greatest blessing ever conferred on the country by the wisdom of parliament. It had been said, that the bill would put an end to religious differences and cement the union of all classes of his majesty's subjects; but he was sorry to say that he thought no such effects would result from the passing of the bill. He objected to the first part of the bill on grounds which would be offensive to many of the most ardent supporters of the measure; he objected to it, not on the ground of individual distrust of the Roman Catholics, but because of the nature of the tenets and principles inherent in their religion. He objected to it for the reasons assigned by a noble earl; namely, that the Catholic religion was hostile to civil and religious liberty. He was ready to admit that many of the obnoxious tenets
353352Viscount Sidmouth
356, in looking at the immunities enjoyed by Protestant dissenters, found it difficult to perceive why similar advantanges should be denied to the solicitations of the Catholics. It did appear to him that in its political qualities and effects the Catholic faith approached more nearly to the established religion of the country than did the Protestant sects so especially favoured. The Catholics certainly did acknowledge—just so far as they could acknowledge it without failure in their allegiance to their sovereign—a foreign spiritual supremacy; but what there was about foreign spiritual supremacy for people to be afraid of, he had yet to learn. The country, as he thought, might as reasonably suspect sir Humphrey Davy of treason, because he was a member of foreign scientific associations; or the illustrious duke opposite a dangerous man because he had received titles or orders of knighthood from foreign states. Those who doubted the loyalty of the Catholics had perhaps forgotten that Catholics in the reign of Charles 1st fought and fell for their king—for that king who was deposed and murdered by Protestant dissenters. Their lordships had been told that the grant of the requested rights would little benefit the
356Lord Ashburton
338337336335334333332331330329328327326325324323322321320 said, that how reluctant soever he was, to intrude upon the House at any time, there was something in the present measure so closely connected with the transactions of his past life, and still more with the future prospects of his country, that he could not reconcile himself to be absent from this discussion, or being present to give a silent vote in behalf of a measure, the principle of which, on so many other occasions, he had so zealously and earnestly advocated. Much as he had considered the subject since the time when he had last the honour of addressing their lordships, he was but the more strengthened in his firm conviction, that there was no way in which it was possible for parliament to convey so great a benefit to the people of this united realm, as by giving effect to the principle of the proposition before them. In offering himself as the advocate of this bill, the importance of which it was impossible for zeal to exaggerate, his first duty was, to hail the altered character in which the proposal for the relief of their Catholic fellow-subjects was now presented to their lordships. It had formerly come before the House, crowned by the sanction of many eminent names, but now it came before them recommended by the weight of the ether House of Parliament. It was not now a question as to the authority of individuals, however respectable; but, after a discussion carried on with a temper and calmness which to him were scarcely less gratifying than the result, the representatives of the Commons of the United Kingdom had determined that the happy moment had arrived for which even the noble lord on the woolsack allowed they ought to pant, when they might safely remove from the Catholics these
338337336335334333332331330329328327326325324323322321320Lord Grenville
l.496, in rising to move the third reading of this bill, said, it would be necessary for him to state in a few words its object. The bill did not propose to make any alteration in the measure which had two years ago been adopted by parliament, further than to anticipate the pe-
l.496The Earl of Liverpool
500499498497 could not allow a measure of such importance to pass the third reading without making a few observations with respect to its general principle. The object of the bill was, not only to afford facility to the Bank, but at the same time to promote the advantage and convenience of the public. By this measure the Bank would be enabled to throw into circulation the specie which they had accumulated. And throughout the inquiries which had taken place on this subject, he had always maintained the opinion, which he saw no reason to change, that when once the currency of the country should be established on durable principles, the less of the precious metals which might remain in the Bank the better. The present bill however, did not rest its claims to the attention of the House, as being merely a measure to enable the Bank to pay in specie, but as embodying the general principle of the financial system attempted to be established two years ago. Nobody could now doubt the capability of the Bank to pay all demands upon them. All the difficulties which some persons had anticipated would attend the resumption of cash payments had been already surmounted by the Bank, for at any time within the last eight or nine months, the Bank could have paid all demands upon them without the slightest difficulty—He did not consider the bill as in the smallest degree affecting the decision of the great question with respect to which kind off
500499498497The Marquis of Lansdown
s.d.s.s.d.s.502l.l.d.s.d.s.d.s.l.501d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l. said, heap-proved of the bill; but if he were to give his advice to the gentlemen of the Bank, it would be, that they should be very cautious in their proceedings under it. In making this observation he called their lordships' attention to the remarkable circumstance, that gold had been for about six months at one price. It had continued steadily at the standard price at which it was purchased by the Bank. Now, to tell him that an article continued for any considerable length of time at the same price was tantamount to saying that it did not come fairly into the market; for the ordinary law of supply and demand rendered it quite impossible that an invariable price should be maintained. When he found that the nominal price of standard gold had been for six, or even three, months, neither more nor less than 3s.d.s.s.d.s.502l.l.d.s.d.s.d.s.l.501d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.The Earl of Lauderdale
504d.s.l. was very desirous to see the measure before their lordships carried into complete effect; but he believed great difficulties would be found to arise from* the junction of increased taxation with a new currency. The noble lord who spoke last could see no means of effectually reducing the expenditure. Now it was not required of him, or any individual in that House, to point out details of reductions. Let, however, the House of Commons come to a resolution to reduce the expense of the public departments to fifteen millions, or any other given sum, and he was sure the head of the Treasury, the noble lord opposite, would discover how the business might be managed. He would doubtless say to the head of the army, you shall have only so much; to the head of the ordnance you shall have only so much; for miscellaneous services so much shall be allowed, and no more. As soon as this distribution was made, the required reductions would follow of course. The great difficulty to be contended with, and one which had always been foreseen, was that of paying the same amount of taxation as before with a currency of increased value. With regard to the sinking fund, any tax for its support was most objectionable. He conceived the proper view with respect to it was this—that at the time when steps were taking to raise a depreciated currency to the legal standard, it was wrong to bring forward another measure for the support of the sinking fund. Having, by the measures taken for restoring a just currency, increased the value of the fundholders dividend, was it reasonable that we should also increase his capital? Such, however, was the effect of imposing taxes for the support of a sinking fund. With regard to the price of gold, he was of opinion that, the purchases of the Bank tended not merely to raise it to its proper value, but to carry it beyond it. The Bank gives a certain price for gold, 3504d.s.l.Lord King
508l.l.507l.l.l.s.l.s.l.l.d.s.l.506l.505 observed, that some particular views had been taken in the course of this conversation, the justice and propriety of which he was
508l.l.507l.l.l.s.l.s.l.l.d.s.l.506l.505The Earl of Liverpool
 expressed his conviction that great retrenchments might be effected in the public expenditure. With this impression on his mind, he should feel it his duty to call their lordships' attention to the subject during the present session.The Earl of Darnley
 stated, that if the whole of the ordnance department were abolished, the salaries and half-pay must remain, and the amount of the reduction would not exceed one-third of the present expenditure.The Duke of Wellington
629l.628627 rose to move the second reading of this bill. He was aware, he said, that many noble lords
629l.628627The Earl of Carnarvon
 said he would not have risen to offer a word on the present occasion, had it not appeared that the noble earl considered the House pledged to entertain this bill. He therefore felt himself bound to state, that he reserved to himself the right of discussing the principle of the measure, and that he conceived that their lordships were not pledged to any thing by the examination of witnesses, or by any step which had yet been taken.The Lord Chancellor
 objected to the bill, both on account of the injustice of its principle, and because it tended to secure indemnity for future offences of the kind of that which it was intended to punish. For when persons who had acted honestly at an election, should find that for giving assistance in bringing the guilty to punishment, they were to be deprived of their own rights, they would no longer be disposed to yield that assistance, without which guilt could not be proved, and corruption might be carried on to any extent without a check. The principle of the measure was inconsistent with the British constitution, and in direct violation of Magna Charta. He contended that no corruption had been charged against thirty-two of the Grampound electors: that the innocent ought not to be punished for the guilty; and that the part of the bill which related to the disfranchisement of Grampound ought not to pass into a law.The Earl of Westmorland
632631630 wished briefly to
632631630The Earl of Liverpool
 maintained that no case of general corruption had been established against the Grampound electors, for that out of fifty electors who had been accused, there were thirty-two against whom there had been no charge whatever. To punish the innocent for the acts of the guilty would be a most unjust and mischievous system of legislation.The Earl of Lauderdale
 regarded the bill as calculated to command their lordships assent, from the importance of the principle of moderate reform which it involved, and which would tend to perpetuate the constitution, by investing it with the respect and confidence of the people. He was fully convinced, that if the law and constitution of the country recognised the representation of the people in parliament, through the means of corporate bodies, every individual belonging to those corporate bodies must be content to share their fate, and submit to the consequences of their general delinquency. With respect to what had fallen from the noble earl opposite, as to the expediency of leaving the Crown to select the place for which the members should be returned, he begged to protest most distinctly against being involved in any assent to such a proposition. Whether such a course would be conformable or not with ancient usage, he had no hesitation in saying, that since the Union with Scotland and Ireland, it would be a complete innovation upon all that made up the modern practice of the constitution. Though he should prefer granting the right of election to Leeds; yet, should he find the sense of the House against that provision, he would not oppose the transfer proposed by the noble earl opposite, to the county of York.The Marquis of Lansdown
633 never meant that the Crown should have the right of
633The Earl of Liverpool
695694 said, that previously to the order of the day being read, he had to submit a proposition to their lordships, which was, that a committee should be appointed to report the names of the mayor, aldermen, and freemen of the corporation of Grampound, distinguishing those against whom evi-
695694The Earl of Lauderdale
 said, he never was a parliamentary reformer in the abstract, but when a case of gross corruption in the exercise of the elective franchise was made evident, he would always approve of the principle which parliament had frequently adopted, and vote in favour of a measure to prevent the recurrence of the evil. The noble earl, after stating that there were forty-one corrupt electors in the borough, arid only thirty-two uncorrupt, concluded by expressing his opposition to the motion.The Earl of Carnarvon
696ex post facto said, that the present bill was completely irreconcileable with the law and constitution of this country. Other measures of a similar nature had been founded on mistaken notions of the law and constitution. It had been contended, that the bill was not a bill of pains and penalties, or an 696ex post factoThe Lord Chancellor
697 wished to say a few words on the question before the House, because he believed it was proposed for the purpose of defeating the object of the bill. He would not enter into the question whether the bill was a bill of pains and penalties or not. If he found that bills of pains and penalties had been recognised by the constitution, it would be only necessary to consider whether a bill of that nature would apply to the present case. The elective franchise was conferred on the corporation, not for the benefit of individuals, but as a public trust; and when parliament should be of opinion that this trust was abused, it became their duty to withdraw it. The privileges possessed by the corporation of Grampound stood on the same footing with the privileges of their lordships. If any peer were found guilty of gross corruption in the discharge of his public duties, he might be deprived of his rights; and this had been done. He might be told that in such a case the guilty alone was punished, and not the innocent. But the principle was the same where a body acted by the majority, and where the reform applied to the majority. In former cases parliament had given to the uncorrupt electors the right, of voting in the hundreds. If it should be thought necessary, a proposition to that effect might be made in the committee on the bill. His noble friend objected to all bills of this nature. The doctrine of his noble friend would prevent parliament from adopting any remedial measure, in a case where only two or three electors might remain uncorrupt out of several hundreds. It was his decided opinion that where systematic corruption was proved against a borough, some remedy should be applied. He stated this without reference to the number of electors which a
697The Earl of Liverpool
698 said, he opposed the bill because it enacted the complete disfranchisement of Grampound, and did not, as had been done in other cases, throw the borough into the hundred. He preferred extending the right of election to the hundred, because that was not extinguishing the borough; but, in the present case, nothing less than extirpation was intended, and what was taken from one place was to be given to another; an advantage was to be conferred on persons who hitherto had not possessed it. The principle thus acted on was calculated to open a door to parliamentary favour and jobbing. To give the selection of the places to be represented to the Crown, was an arrangement which might be attended with dangerous consequences. Of the two modes of transfer which had been suggested, that of giving two additional members to the county of York was the best, because it
698Earl Bathurst
 objected to the measure as tending to establish the principle, that population was the scale for representation. This principle would lead to the system adopted by the National Convention of France, and might be so used as to destroy our present institutions.Lord Redesdale
 said the first enactment declared that the borough of Grampound should cease to return members to parliament. With this enactment be entirely agreed. It was a distinct proposition from the remainder of the clause which proposed to provide for supplying the deficiency created. As this latter part might form a subject of discussion, he would propose that all that part of the clause which follows the word "parliament," should be left out.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that although he objected totally to the principle of the bill, yet as parliament had frequently passed bills for disfranchising voters, he thought he should be doing more than he ought to do, if he proposed any thing more than to make this measure consistent with the precedents established by former bills. Those who had not been proved guilty should not be punished. He therefore proposed, that there should be inserted in the clause these word.s:—" That henceforth the burgesses of the borough of Grampound which have not been convicted, shall be the only electors for that borough."The Lord Chancellor
 thought the principle of this bill was most pernicious. There were at present Jaws against corruption, which punished the guilty much more effectually than any of these remedial innovations upon the constitution. It confounded the innocent with the guilty. It made the former answerable for crimes which they had never committed while it passed over the crimes of the latter with comparative impunity.The Earl of Westmorland
855 defended the principle of the bill. He said it was no sufficient objection to the measure to say that it involved the punishment of the nocent. Such punishment was alrea-
855Lord Melville
856 remarked, that his noble friend had completely misapprehended the argument of the advocates of the bill. That argument was, that whatever might be the number of electors in a. place, while they exercised their right justly, they ought not to be deprived of it; but that if corruption were proved against them, it was the duty of the legislature to apply a remedy. As to punishing the innocent with the guilty, was not that done at the Revolution, when by the change of dynasty, the descendants of James the second were punished for the crimes of James the second, because it was for the
856The Earl of Liverpool
 could not agree to a measure which must have the effect of confounding the innocent with the guilty. He did not consider the cases referred to as having a bearing on the question. He had concurred with Mr. Fox and Mr. Ellis in opposing the bill for the disfranchising Stockbridge, and conceived that the same objections applied to the present measure. In order to disfranchise a borough, nothing more would in future be necessary, but to get a majority of the electors to take money. The place would then be deprived of the right of election, and the innocent punished for the guilty.The Lord Chancellor
 argued in favour of the bill. If, when by the lapse of time, and by other circumstances, a borough was reduced to a state in which the electors were incapable of discharging their duty with fidelity, the legislature refused to exercise their power of transferring the elective franchise, they abandoned one of their most important duties. With reference to the objection, that the innocent would suffer with the guilty, that was the necessary result of many legislative measures; for instance, the act of 1805, by which the inhabitants of any district in Ireland were subjected to heavy fines in the event of the discovery of illicit distillation in that district. As to the place to which the franchise should be transferred, he ridiculed the theory that there was in the surrounding district an inherent right to it. He was certainly in favour of transferring the franchise to some populous and unrepresented place; because, however averse to any sweeping change in the representation, he was yet desirous to repair the inroads of that great innovator time, by connecting more intimately, whenever an opportunity occurred, large bodies of the people with the representatives of the people.The Marquis of Lansdown
 contended, that there never could be a stronger case for legislative interference than the present. As to any danger from speculative opinions on the subject, he maintained that the fear was utterly groundless.The Earl of Carnarvon
 opposed the bill, because it yielded to the reformers all that they could wish, and legislated by carrying further than the existing law the system of disfranchisement. It was a law new in its nature, and one to which, in his conscience, he could never assent.The Earl of Lauderdale
 then urged the propriety of granting to the county of York the privilege of henceforth sending four members to parliament instead of two. He thought it was best in the first instance of departing from the principle of extending the right of suffrage to the hundreds to transfer it to the county of York. He also preferred to extend the right of voting to the county of York, in preference to Leeds, because the change would involve no principle of a new mode of election.The Earl of Liverpool
 would not oppose the motion, but hoped, if other bills of a similar nature should come before their lordships, they would grant the elective franchise to large towns, which would be the means of removing one great existing cause of discontent.The Earl of Carnarvon
858 suggested, that the evils contemplated by the noble earl might be avoided by causing two members to be returned for the north
858The Marquis of Lansdown
 objected to the transfer of the elective franchise to Leeds. He however wished to be understood as not objecting to the principle of bestowing the right of suffrage on large towns. Alluding to what had fallen from the noble marquis, he feared it would be impossible, without completely altering the constitution of the country to divide it in the manner proposed.Earl Fitzwilliam
 thought it became the duty of parliament, when such cases of gross and notorious corruption were brought before it, to meet them. With respect to the present being a bill of pains and penalties, such a measure was clearly a remedial law, and applicable in the; deficiency of the existing law. What, indeed, was the system of English law but punishing in many cases the: innocent with the guilty? From the Revolution to the present hour, it unfortunately so happened, that descendants were punished for the offences of those who preceded them. Had not their lordships for centuries past been punishing the innocent Catholics for guilt that was attributed to their forefathers? The system was to be deplored; but it appeared to be inseparable from the nature of things.The Earl of Harrowby
857 thought, if the House adopted the principle of depriving a body of electors of the right of suffrage, they
857Earl Bathurst
 was of opinion that the proposition would, if acted upon, create great inconvenience to the county of York. It would afford an opportunity for any individual to offer himself as a candidate and by keeping the poll open, to put his opponents to considerable expense.The Earl of Harewood
 thought the suggestion of the noble marquis might easily be acted upon, as the county was already divided for every purpose except that of election.Lord Redesdale
 objected to the measure, on the ground that it was completely revolutionary in its principle. It was argued, that the number of representatives in Cornwall was too large. If that argument were admitted to be valid, they must proceed to remodel the whole constitution. To agree to the measure would be to proceed to sea without compass or rudder.Lord Redesdale
 was of opinion that the bill went td establish a new principle of legislation. He thought parliament should mark its sense of the gross corruption which had existed at Gram-pound; but he could not see why it should alter the mode of legislation which had been adopted in all similar cases.Marquis Camden
854 was decidedly in favour of the bill as it stood, and would vote against the amendment. He had heard, with a great deal of satisfaction, the noble and learned lord, because he liked to hear arguments against bills of pains and penalties from the highest law authority in the state; and he never could wish that any man should forfeit by the law what he held under the law. Here, however, a systematic corruption had been proved, and called for the visitation of a remedial law. The true question was, were theirs lordships
854Lord Erskine
l.883l., after expressing his surprise that there should be so thin a House when a commercial measure of the greatest importance was to be discussed proceeded to oppose the bill. It had been proved in the committee that vessels made of American timber would not last one-half the time of those made of Baltic timber. In the committee he had asked a witness this question—"Suppose a house built of Norway fir were valued at 600l.883l.,The Earl of Lauderdale,
, though he concurred in the objections urged against the bill, would oppose the amendment, because he thought some little benefit might arise from this measure, and was afraid, were the bill thrown out, that the influence of the shipping interest might be sufficient to prevent any other alteration from being made. He certainly expected that ministers would have acted with more firmness in this business. The effect of the bill would be a premium to introduce the dry rot into every building in the kingdom. If he should ever be again appointed on any committee of trade, he would endeavour to do his duty, but he should enter into it without the least hope of being able to accomplish any benefit for the country.Lord Ellenborough
 strongly deprecated the bill.Lord King
884s.l.s.;l.s.l. observed, that their lordships were to consider, not whether this bill did all that could be wished, but whether it did not put these matters on a better footing than they were before? For his own part he thought it must improve the trade by reducing the duty on Baltic timber, from 3884s.l.s.;l.s.l.The Earl of Liverpool
 said, that, after the part which he had taken in former discussions upon this subject, he could not help expressing his extreme regret and surprise at the speech of the noble earl. After all the consideration that this question had undergone; after the assurances so often given by the noble earl, that whenever any arrangements should be adopted for the purpose of effecting an alteration in this system, they should be on a complete and permanent scale; after four or five years of peace had been suffered to elapse, upon that very ground, without any thing being done, their lordships were now informed by the noble earl at the head of his majesty's government, that they were to pass a hill, founded, indeed, in; an erroneous policy, but one which established a system a little better than what had hitherto been acted on. The noble earl himself had not attempted to justify it, and had not offered one argument to support even his own qualified recommendation of it.The Marquis of Lansdown
 said, that no arrangement existed to prevent government from revising the provisions of this bill at any future time, if it should be deemed expedient.Earl Bathurst
l.;882 rose to move that this bill be committed, and went into a detailed explanation of the grounds of the measure. He reminded their lordships that, in consequence of being excluded from the Baltic in the year 1809, the country had been thrown back on its own resources. It became necessary therefore to encourage the importation of timber from our colonies, and the duties were arranged with that view; but it was distinctly understood, that that arrangement was not to be permanent, and notice was given that the whole would be revised. The effect of this notice was, that the persons engaged in the trade took alarm, and made large importations, without any reference whatever to any increased demand. In 1817, the importations from America had been only 136,000 loads. In 1818 these 136,000 loads were, without any new demand, increased to 230,000 loads. This was entirely owing to speculation. In the same year there were also large importations from the Baltic. The quantity from the Baltic imported in 1817 was 79,900 loads, which increased in 1818 to 130,000 loads. The quantity both from the Baltic and America in 1817, was 216,000 loads; and in 1818, 334,000 loads. In 1819, from the effect of the notice, the importations from America rose to 249,000 loads; and, in the same year, the amount from the Baltic was 103,000loads, making the whole importation for that year, 352,000 loads. This was a great excess over the year 1817, in which, only 216,000 loads had
l.;882Earl Bathurst.
 was of opinion, that if it was not thought fit to create a new borough, the members ought to be added to some place which already possessed the right of election. With regard to the inconvenience of taking a poll for the whole county of York, he should have no objection to a proposition for allowing polls to be taken in different parts of the county. But that could only be done by a separate measure.The Earl of Liverpool
 objected to the arrangement by which four members were to be elected for the county of York. He thought it would be much better to give the two members taken from Grampound to a district of the county, including certain towns, as Leeds, Huddersfield, Wakefield, &c. This would obviate the great inconvenience that would arise in taking the poll at once for the whole county.The Earl of Harrowby
974 said, that the measure was a departure from every principle by which parliament had been guided in former cases. The county of York was, indeed, completely thrown off its guard with respect to it; for, as the other House had refused to transfer the representation to Yorkshire, no expectation could have been entertained of such an alteration in the bill as that which had been made. As to taking the poll in different parts of the county, that was a scheme to which he objected, chiefly on account of the difficulty of executing it. Who was to be the superintending officer? Would persons be found willing to do the duties of sheriff only for a fortnight? If they did, it was likely they would be electioneering partisans, and therefore not the
974The Earl of Harewood
116911681167 rose to call the attention of the House to a case in which the rights of the rectors of the church of England were directly involved, and which also affected the rights of the great body of the clergy. He held in his hand the petition of the rev. Henry William Neville, rector of Blatherwick, a gentleman who had had recourse to this mode of seeking redress with great reluctance, and who would not have brought his complaint before their lordships if he could have obtained redress in any other manner. The petitioner held two livings in the diocese of Peterborough, to, one of which it was necessary he should present a curate. The rev. John Green was accordingly presented. He came forward with proper testimonials of character and ability. He had already signed the 39 articles, and was ready to be examined and to subscribe them again. This, however, was not sufficient to satisfy the right rev. prelate opposite (the bishop of Peterborough), who insisted upon answers to 87 questions previously framed and printed, and on refusal to answer them, signified his
116911681167Lord King
1180117911781177117611751174à fortiori1173117211711170* Dr. Herbert Marsh. From the original edition printed for Rivingtons. said:—
1180117911781177117611751174à fortiori1173117211711170* Dr. Herbert Marsh. From the original edition printed for Rivingtons.The Bishop of Peterborough
 stated, that the application made by the petitioner to him, was not in the form of an appeal, but merely a letter inquiring whether the bishop could be justified is the conduct he pursued or not? Some unavoidable delay had taken place in giving an answer; and when given, the answer was, that the 48th canon empowered and directed the bishop to examine all applicants for admission into his diocese.The Archbishop of Canterbury
 respected the character and talents of the right rev. prelate; but was of opinion, that the conduct be had pursued was calculated to disturb the peace of the Church, and to endanger the ascendancy of the Protestant Establishment, by the revival of controversial points.Lord Calthorpe
 admitted the expediency of empowering the right reverend bench to examine persons applying for admission in their dioceses. But though he admitted the right, be must my it might be abused, and for the purpose of asserting the right of the House to interfere, he would vote in favour of the motion, that the Petition be laid upon the table.The Marquis of Lansdown
 thought their lordships had the power of applying a remedy in a case of this kind, and that redress could sometimes be obtained from no other quarter. The mode of examination aodpted by the right rev. prelate appeared to him to be extremely dangerous to the peace of the Church.Earl Grey
 did not see any practical object which could be gained by the reception of the present petition. It was inconsistent with the charity of Christians to suppose that the church intended do exclude Calvinists; but he did not see how parliament could now be appealed to.The Earl of Harrowby
d.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.d.s.l..1216d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.1215 on rising to make his promised motion respecting the supply of Stationery to the government offices in Ireland, said, that he rose to perform a duty in some respects painful, as he should be obliged to make some personal observations on alluding to the papers before the House. Of the individual to whom those papers referred he knew nothing. That individual was, at the present moment, lord mayor of Dublin; it would, therefore, become a part of his official duty to receive his majesty, if he should carry his intention of visiting Ireland into effect; and in doing so, he had no doubt that his majesty would experience a very warm and a very Irish reception. It was, however, a matter of regret to him, that the person with whose conduct the present question was connected, had always been a warm partizan of principles which he had as constantly opposed, he meant that of hostility to the catholics. But whatever his feelings might be, he was resolved to do his duty; and if the task he had to perform appeared in any respect invidious, the fault was not in him, but in those by whose conduct he was compelled to undertake it. The noble earl then went into the detail of, the charges contained in the following resolutions, with the moving of which he concluded:d.s.l.d.s.l.s.l.d.s.l..1216d.s.l.d.s.l.d.s.l.1215The Earl of Darnley,
1217 said, that the frauds which had been discovered were committed by a person named Fox, who was in the service of alderman King, but who had derived no advantage from them himself, and that there had been neglect on the part of the persons who now came forward to complain in not detecting the mal-practices sooner. The man by whom the practices had been committed had been originally employed by Mr. Wood-mason, who formerly supplied the articles, and continued by Mr. King. But
1217Lord Sidmouth
 expressed his satisfaction that the investigation was going forward. It appeared, notwithstanding the argument of the noble lord, that the public was a loser in a definite degree, but to what extent was not yet known. Judging from the papers in his hand and the accounts he had received, the inference seemed to be that double price was charged, and in some instances, more than that upon the articles provided by the alderman. The negligence of the officer could not be pleaded in excuse for the commission of fraud, and it was incumbent on the government to punish abuses, especially when they were connected with power.The Marquis of Lansdown
 thought that the case was one of great suspicion, especially when he was told that the person who committed the fraud derived no benefit from it, and that the alderman was ignorant of what was done.The Earl of Limerick
s.1232 stated, that it was his intention to move also the second reading of the bill for mitigating the punishment annexed to the commission of robbery upon rivers, which was founded on the same principle. The object of the two bills was, to take away the penalty of death from the offences to which they referred, and to substitute transportation for life, or imprisonment and hard labour. The provisions of the bill relating to robbery on navigable rivers was extended in the committee to robberies committed on canals, and he thought no difference of opinion could arise as to the propriety of extending the same protection to property in both cases. In proposing an alteration of this nature, it was to be observed that the change would extend no further than the particular subjects specified in the enactments. It did not, therefore, affect the general system of our laws. The fact was, that our criminal code had grown up, unlike the codes of other countries, which were founded upon one general system; it consisted of particular laws, which were urged by temporary and local circumstances, and the consequence was, that the penalty of death had accumulated in a degree unparalleled. The government, he contended, must find it inconvenient and inexpedient to maintain those severe penalties in cases where they were opposed, not only to public opinion, but to the opinion of those whose property they were intended to protect, as well as to those of the judges and juries by whom they were ultimately to be administered. Their lordships would find, that in the general opinion of this country, the laws which the present bills were intended to mitigate were too severe; and it could be proved, that instead of deterring from crime, the effect of their operation was, to increase it, by the impunity which the reluctance of individuals to prosecute held out to offenders. It might appear, on the first view, that the removal of these severe penalties would have the effect of encouraging crime, but their lordships would find, with regard to certain crimes made capital under the excise laws, that in the opinion of the solicitor of the ex-
s.1232The Marquis of Lansdown
1233s. admitted, that if the tendency of these bills was, to prevent crime, they ought to be adopted; but the House would do well to hesitate before they adopted that opinion. He would admit, that when first he held a situation connected with the administration of criminal law, he entertained an opinion that the code ought to be rendered more lenient; but after the experience of many years he took a different view, and entertained a different opinion. He would admit that if a man entered a house without breaking in or breaking out, and stole to the amount of 401233s.The Lord Chancellor
 maintained that while the laws were continued in their present severity, they could not answer the ends of public justice. He had himself abstained from prosecuting in one instance for that reason.The Earl of Carnarvon
 observed, that the very fact of the increase of crime in late years, was drawn from the increase of prosecutions; and unless the advocates of these bills could show, that while crime was increasing prosecutions were stationary, the principle on which their advocacy was founded must fall to the ground. The great incentive to crime consisted, not in the uncertainty of prosecution, but in the chance of escaping capital punishment, and the insufficiency of secondary punishments. He could state cases in which the increase of punishment had diminished the offence, and particularly with respect to the commission of robberies upon rivers; which since the capital punishment was annexed, had almost ceased. Feeling the importance of protecting the property of his fellow subjects, he dared not agree to the motion, which would operate as an encouragement to crime.Lord Sidmouth
 supported the bills, as they went to remove inconsistencies in the law, and did not reflect upon those concerned in the administration of it.Lord Calthorpe
1234 thought, that the disproportion in the convictions stated by the noble viscount was an argument in favour of the bill. The late increase of crime was admitted upon all hands; but he lamented that there was a disposition to prevent
1234Lord King
1289128812871286, on rising to make his promised motion respecting the Foreign slave-trade, said, that though the attention of the House had been called many times to that interesting subject, it never had been called to it under circumstances which more strongly required their consideration. If the result of their endeavours had been more fortunate than they were, it would still become their lordships, after the lapse of so long a period since the abolition of that detestable traffic by this country, and the en-
1289128812871286The Marquis of Lansdown
 expressed his satisfaction at the avowal of the noble lord, and declared himself strongly in favour of the motion.Lord Calthorpe
 said, that though he did not agree implicitly in every sentiment contained in the address, he should give it his support. With respect to the adoption of a registry, as there was not the same general dislike to the trade among the people of other countries which existed in this, it was much to be feared that it would be evaded. The conduct of other countries on the subject was a matter of great delicacy. All he hoped was, that their lordships would believe that the government of this country had done its duty; and he would promise them that no exertion should be spared to give effect to the abolition by every means which ministers could command.Earl Bathurst
l.1468l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.1467l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.,l.,l.14661465 rose in pursuance of the notice he had given. The subject to which he wished to call the attention of their lordships was that of Economy in the Public Expenditure. Upon no occasion had ministers denied the necessity of economy, but they had; never before gone so far as to make the admissions they had within these few days done in the other House. A resolution had, at their own suggestion, been adopted, which, though it differed in words from that which was originally proposed, equally pledged them to a system of economy; and the necessity of economy must be evident to their lordships when they considered that the estimates of this year were, with the exception of the last, larger than they had been during any year since the restoration of peace. What must impress their lordships with the necessity of inquiry was, that, notwithstanding all that was said on the prosperity of the country, an investigation which had lately been made by a committee, of the other House of parlia-
l.1468l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.1467l.,l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.l.,l.,l.,l.14661465The Earl of Darnley
14711470l.l.,l.1469 said, that the subject which the noble lord had brought under consideration was one which would require a great deal of their lordships' time to discuss in detail, and there were circumstances in his own situation which would induce him on this occasion to be brief. He should, however, endeavour, in as few words as possible, to place the subject in a point of view which, if not satisfactory to the noble lord, would, he hoped, be so to the majority of their lordships. The noble lord had dwelt much on the statements in the report of the other House on the state of agriculture. An opinion was expressed in that report that no legislative measure could be proposed as a remedy for the evil of which the petitioners complained. He concurred in this declaration. He would also go a step further, and say, that in his opinion inquiries which could end in no practical result were always likely to produce evil. The agricultural class doubtless laboured under great distress, but those who attributed that distress to taxation did not take into consideration the fact that there was not a country in Europe, and even America, in which similar distress did not exist to as great a degree. In Russia, Poland, and in most parts of Germany, the distress was infinitely greater than in this country. With respect to the United States, where taxation was light, greater distress was experienced than in this country. The distress, in fact; was general. It was not owing to any artificial system of this country, but to the artificial state into which the whole world had
14711470l.l.,l.1469The Earl of Liverpool
1472l.,l.,l. said, that this was not the first time the noble earl opposite had admitted the distresses of the country, and pledged government to economy. He had heard from him, nearly verbatim, the same observations on several former occasions. The noble earl professed that he could not go along with his noble friend in his proposed reductions, but the noble earl had not pointed out their impracticability. In the justness of the description given by his noble friend, of the distress under which the country laboured, the noble earl concurred; but instead of pointing to its natural remedy, he satisfied himself with finding a parallel for it in other countries. But the distress of other nations furnished no reason why we should not endeavour to alleviate curs by economy; or why our government should not become a government of parsimony instead of profusion. The noble earl stated that this year there had been a reduction of 1,800,0001472l.,l.,l.Earl Grosvenor
1473 said, he would hot dispute that 84 sail of the line in time of peace was a sufficient naval force; but the
1473Lord Melville
adscripti glebœ.1474l.maximum, preferred the motion to the amendment, because it was most fair and manly, and expressed most plainly the objects intended. But his principal reason for rising was, not to advert to what had passed in debate, but to what was the cause of the enormous distress under which the agricultural and other interests laboured. How did it happen, that after so long a period since the peace, and when the evil seemed to have reached its adscripti glebœ.1474l.maximum,The Earl of Carnarvon
 could not help thinking, that after the candid manner in which the question had been met by the noble earl at the head of the Treasury, his noble friend must feel that his object had been obtained, and that consequently he would not press his motion to a division.Lord Calthorpe
l.1505 said, that it certainly was not his intention to oppose the principle of this grant, or that on which the arrears were given from the period of the original vote. On the contrary, he approved of both parts of the measure. He thought the Commons had done credit to themselves in reverting in this bill to the general principle which ought to guide all grants of the kind, and giving the annuity from the time of his royal highness's marriage. He could not, however, refrain from calling their lordship' attention to the situation of the duke of Cumberland, who had, in his opinion, been treated very unfairly. It was not easy to conceive on what ground his royal highness was not placed on the same footing with the rest of the king's sons. If there
l.1505The Earl of Lauderdale
 concurred in the sentiments expressed by his noble friend, and warmly eulogized the character and conduct of the royal duke.The Earl of Limerick
1506l. said, that after the declarations recently made by the noble earl opposite of the necessity of keeping up the revenue, he was surprised to find that he had agreed to a measure by which 500,0001506l.The Earl of Lauderdale
1507 said, he had much rather the proposition of this bill had not come before their lordships, but since it was before them, he conceived that, under all the circumstances of the case, it was his duty to give it his support. When a committee to inquire into the agricultural distress was suggested, he objected to the proposition, on the general ground that he saw no chance of good, but much of evil, from such an investigation. He had also stated that the distress had nothing to do with the state of the revenue or taxation; and when he said that, it was plain that he could see no useful result to which such inquiries could lead. The noble lord, however, was for appointing a committee to see what taxes could be repealed. He believed that such an inquiry would have a result similar to that which had taken place respecting the agricultural distress. He never knew-a case in which seven or eight persons got together to consider how taxes to a certain amount might be removed, but each had the repeal of some particular tax in view, which he insisted ought to take precedence of all others. The noble lord had declared, that he would prefer the repeal of the duties on soap, candles, and some other articles. Now, though he did not mean to say that the agricultural horse duty would have been his first choice, he would certainly much rather repeal it than any of the taxes on those articles to which the noble lord had alluded; for, in the present state of the revenue, nothing could
1507The Earl of Liverpool
maximum; expressed his dissent from the noble earl's declaration, that the distress experienced through the country had no connexion with the state of the revenue or taxation. He, on the contrary, considered the connexion to be most intimate, and was of opinion that it would not be long before it would be found to be impossible to pay the taxes at the present rate of the currency. It was plain that indirect taxation had reached its maximum;The Earl of Carnarvon
1508 said, it was the fluctuation of the currency which was to be complained of, and not its restoration to a true standard. After the currency had been brought back to its natural state, nothing would be more mischievous than any new alteration. In speaking of reductions, the
1508The Earl of Lauderdale
